ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Welcome to the guests! The Tuesday session of the 4th working week of the VIIIth plenary session has begun. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. They're not here today. Incoming check, please! 72 delegates will take part in the meeting, no 29.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we are discussing a matter of national importance, 'Payment system','chaos or locus'. I will brief you on the procedure for discussing this item. First, Jürgen Ligi, Chairman of the Estonian Reform Party Group (up to 20 minutes), then questions and answers (up to 20 minutes). Then there is the presentation (up to 20 minutes) and questions and answers (also up to 20 minutes) by Toomas Luman, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The presentation by Dmitri Jegorov (up to 20 minutes), Deputy Chancellor of Taxation and Customs Policy of the Ministry of Finance, will follow, then there will be questions and answers (also up to 20 minutes). And now the attention, every member of the Riigikogu can or may ask a total of up to two questions to the rapporteurs. Maybe if you ask Toomas Luman two questions, you can't ask Jürgen Ligi and Dmitri Egorov. Subsequent negotiations and speeches will be open to members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. However, at the request of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, I propose that representatives of the political groups first appear. It's been a while. Members of the Government of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice can also take the floor. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. In addition, the Estonian Reform Party Group proposes to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. But we'll be back to that topic in a few hours. So, the debate on a crucial issue. Helir-Valdor Seeder, procedural question, definitely.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U3	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question. You said the floor could be taken by the members of the government and the Chancellor of Justice. Doesn't the Auditor General have such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U4	Not according to our rules. And in the case of the two mentioned, it is at first only a theory, because I do not see any ministers or chancellors in the Chamber at the moment, but they may still come here. So, the discussion of the crucial question 'Tax system' is about to begin. I would like to ask for a chair of speech by Jürgen Ligi, Chairman of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, taxes in Estonia should not be a national issue of major importance or importance; it is more Estonian than the title of this format. The tax system has never been one of Estonia's main problems or top problems. We've actually been quite reasonable so far. However, the fact is that while it is generally known what to expect from the tax system, unfortunately, politicians never know before the elections how to become elected in a smart way and keeping stability in place. This is why there is always chaos in the tax area before the elections, and unfortunately this time it has also happened between the elections. Everyone wants to differ, everyone wants to say something that contradicts what tax theory and practice have long proven. That is why I shall speak first of all about fundamental values. What are taxes for anyway? In fact, to raise money for the necessary things for the state, the economy and the citizen in the least disturbing way. We've done it pretty well. The least disturbing ways are generally known. In doing so, we have received very high international assessments of our tax system. The Tax Foundation has considered us the most competitive OECD country in the field of taxation for several years in a row. So the bottleneck hasn't really been there. Why do we always have to organise chaos when it becomes a political debate? Secondly, we have, of course, an extremely comfortable tax administration, which we have been dealing with, and we have actually made big plans (at least from my term of office I know to confirm this) that would make paying taxes even easier. We have achieved a situation where, for a long time, until recently, additional tax receipts were made because they were added to where these taxes had been unfairly removed. The burden was not put on an honest taxpayer, but on an unfair one. The fundamental values also include, of course, making sure that we do not create unnatural inequalities in the adjustment of the tax system. I would write this in a smaller letter, because the issue of inequality is social policy rather than the burden of the tax system. It is not possible for the tax system to have a separate effective social policy, which is an old and proven truth, but it is possible to have an antisocial policy. It is very often the weaker that are hitting the tax bill, and there is a number of evidence of this from the recent past. The basic values include that the tax system must be simple and understandable. It must not distort the economy or citizen's behaviour in an unnatural, harmful way, for example in terms of tax evasion or foolish behaviour. We need a broad revenue base (i.e. a number of taxes, and no one should be able to run away) and not high tax rates that are harassing and destructive. All kinds of carvings tend to go in the opposite direction, base gets thinner, and the result is that somewhere there are too high taxes that do damage. It is well known to Estonia that under the conditions of a small and poor economy, a rich economy on a global scale, but not the richest economy in our environment, there must always be one dominant idea of how to be competitive. We have managed to do so, but we should always remember competitiveness, how it would be more beneficial to earn income, create jobs and invest in Estonia. This should be a mission for all of us when we are working on the tax system, but unfortunately, before the elections, and I repeat, this time, between the elections, we are thinking exactly the opposite. A growth-friendly environment. I will use this word and quote the Swedish Minister for Finance, who loved to talk about it. It was just my own story that I like to keep talking about it, but since it was said by the Minister of Finance of the Socialist Swedish Government, it is good for me to quote him as well. Anders Borg loved to emphasise the need for a growth-friendly tax policy that did not tax so much on investments and inputs as on consumption. That's what they said in Sweden. The OECD has ranked taxes according to their impact on the economy, which is always forgotten. The worst tax on the economy remains corporate income tax, as corporate income and investment are a highly sensitive area, highly dispersed and disappearing internationally, according to tax conditions. It's often a mouse click away. We all need to know that, if we want income to be earned here, we should prevent such hiccups and protect our income tax system, which still favours investment and still deals with the least damaging tax freedom for the economy, if you could say so. If the company needs to invest, it does not have to give it up to the state because of its obligation. Since this system has worked, the year 2000, when it came into force, and the profits of the companies suddenly tripled (even higher was the number), shows this because everything became fairer and cleaner, although it was a bad year, even though there was a combination of the crisis between the Middle East and Russia. Growth in 2000, fiscal growth was actually modest, but companies suddenly started to make profits. It is phenomenal how the right things can bring benefits to the economy. The second good decision from the outset was the reduction in income tax decided since 2003. The proof is that the OECD has ranked taxes against the detriment of the economy. First, corporate income tax, second, labour tax. Labour taxes are next, I would like to emphasise this word, the production input that should be contained and should not be raised, including the additional taxation of high-paid work, in which we have just made one mistake with the 2016 cluster, which was wrong. A step-by-step income tax is certainly the way in the wrong direction, because it taxes higher the kind of work that we want and cheaper the kind of work that we do not really want, that is, a low-paid economy. Unlike what wise people think in one corner, in the door corner, VAT is, according to OECD analyses, a tax that is actually neutral to the economy. In economic terms, it is criminal to quote, I understand, I think Donald Trumpi, who is working in a completely different economic environment, in a completely different, closed, large consumer society and has said that VAT is the worst tax on the economy in the first place and that the idea of the economy is internal consumption. A more absurd election promise than letting VAT down and taking over a loan can't really be in taxation. There can be no more absurd election promise! The relatively safe way of collecting taxes is made the most dangerous for the economy and spoken of on a fair-faced screen before the elections. There's a fight about a problem that doesn't really exist. Another thing, of course, aside: the other company on the side of the door declared that income tax should be linked to the number of children. Another myth that is cynical, because it reaches families with lots of children and huge incomes, but it doesn't get to families with lower incomes or no incomes, but families are big too. So Priit Onion, or on my behalf, Helir-Valdor Seeder or Sven Sester will receive this money as long as they are in the Riigikogu. But after March, they may not be here anymore, most likely, and they will lose this money, but that's when they'll probably need some kind of support from the state to their children. It's not appropriate to say names, but it is. High-payers win this. Kids with real problems lose. They will be deprived and we should begin to patch up this system of linking children with subsidies, which is always a more effective method in social policy than tax exemptions. Of course, there is a problem that we are solving here with taxes. The problem is not that the tax system has been very bad, but that politicians have a passion to differ, a desire to give as many people as possible the impression that they will be given money before the elections. This solution, which is formulated in this way, means giving the impression that as much money is distributed as possible and that the problem is being sought for. Actually, it's not being searched, it's not actually finding the problem that would be solved, but the slogans are already being waved. One slogan was how to make people feel like homeowners, and then share some kind of dough with them. Fortunately, this is not the most expensive promise, but it is one of the dumbest electoral promises that has come true just as I am talking about election promises, because for those who have, you don't have to give more force, and if something is right to tax, it is a limited resource called 'earth'. The OECD has called it an even useful tax for the economy. I don't want to overexpress it, but that's the way it is. Homeland is a limited resource, costing society as a whole, but it benefits only the landlord, who is also socially better off than non-homeowners, not worse. So land tax is one thing we should reform. Property taxes are the subject of the future, the present issue is land tax reform, where the municipality decides how it will tax. It's the least we have to do. This is an extremely local course and, of course, this reform has increased inequality. My first point was that things that increase inequality should not be done if it is meant as a social policy, but it could be done with some other motive, i.e. in the interests of the economy. One thesis that has been forgotten by the great thrillers, although they have signed it in the past, is that social policy cannot be made by not collecting taxes, but by collecting taxes. So let's keep these things separate. All tax changes have proved destructive, socially destructive, and they have unfortunately become harmful in terms of the economy as well. What was done with the income tax system, he was gradually and complicated, which made people angry and disappointed, was also stupid in economic policy, because it promotes cheap work instead of productive and, of course, it damages the economy. But it is also quite simply obvious that he did not reduce inequality but increased, because the sources of money were taken away from pensioners, the benefit was actually taken away from families with children and housing owners. This shifted pensioners in particular, as well as many others, in particular towards poverty, i.e. below the median in terms of income. But it's particularly striking that the poor didn't get a cent compared to the current plan. You always have to compare with your current plan. The major fraud in this income tax system was that it was not compared to the current plan. Exceptions are things that generally increase inequality. Whether it's the VAT on food that the wealthy pay three times as much as the poor. The difference between other taxes is even more drastic. By creating exceptions and incentives, we are increasing inequalities. So, all left-wings, remember when you are in favour of everything, both in favour of costs and tax incentives, that subsidies are effective social policy, exceptions are harmful, they are sieved with water. So much history that we've mostly made the right decisions. Crisis management is also part of history. Having dealt with the consolidation programmes of the various countries, as well as with our crisis management, I can assure you that the most effective way of fiscal consolidation has also been, in the opinion of international organisations, to patch up all kinds of holes and avoid raising the tax burden or tax rates, except, by the way, VAT. In this sense, I am very pleased that we were able to make this bold decision ourselves, that we did not go against other taxes, but precisely on VAT and that we moved the tax structure better. We actually saved our euro project, but we also managed to overcome the budget crisis in 2009. In general, taxes should not be changed in this way. I'd like to talk about the process now. Should still recover the government's duty to give six months' notice. Not the way it was done, that even the Riigikogu could only watch the scum that was presented as a tax cluster in 2016 and later, without the possibility of debate, without coordination circles. There's never been such a thing done. And the result is, we're turning these things back now. No one has ever accepted the increase in excise duty or wine excise duty on beer, and no one is talking about it anymore. Everyone says he's out of line. Even Ossinovsky of Evgeny no longer appreciates that it was a good decision. Even drunks prove it because they drink more than before. There has been a hole in the budget of over EUR 100 million a year, and this is also something that those who were fanatically defending all of this before, led by the Minister for Finance of the IRL. No one will accept the increase in gas excise duty. He was warned about it, too. Yesterday, we discussed reducing gas excise duties or granting incentives, which is ridiculous. If the gas excise duty has gone beyond the level that is in the countries around us, then it must be lowered evenly, rather than exempting larger consumers. But it's a self-inflicted relief. That's the same thing about alcohol duty. Electricity excise duty, excise duty on fuel, these are again issues where I have enormous losses from excise duties. Now everyone has started to win each other's excise duties and tossed the child out with the washing water. Acts are still a noble tax. Still. Read the news that awaits our planet. We're actually late to save him. These news will be increasingly frightening, but nevertheless the party of the Prime Minister and everyone else will allow the excise duty on fossils to be reduced. When talking about excise duties, it is still important to remember their noble purpose and, secondly, the level that can reverse this objective, for example, to introduce cheap alcohol, to cause budget losses and more drinking, and to bring here cheaper fuel from other countries, as has happened. So this is about the level, not the fact that excise duty is basically the worst tax and the problem of the economy or the tax system. It has crossed the border, is a summary, not that it is now the best idea in the world to lower excise duty. The optimal level must be reduced, but it is said that this is the best way to give money to citizens. I am not going to talk about tax evasion once again, but it has damaged both the economy and social policy. It's gonna have to be fixed. Activations must be brought to an optimal level, but not thrown out with washing water. These could be the most important changes we make. Feel free to lose all tax exemptions, apart from the tax-free minimum, which should be one of the elements of civil liberties: earning income without public burdens and without having any additional possibilities of carving to avoid paying tax. In the future, we will have an obligation to consider, not to discuss, in the form of chaos, how to reduce the tax burden on labour and shift it to other taxes. Not on corporate tax, but on other non-damaging taxes for the economy, because we are getting smaller and we are getting older. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U6	Now the 20-minute round of questions and answers begins. Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Very esteemed waitress, thank you very much for your balanced presentation. One measure of tax policy is, in fact, tax fraud. Unfortunately, from yesterday's Postimees, we had to read about the findings of the head of the Tax Audit Unit of the Tax and Customs Board that the number of beneficiaries of the envelope has increased. What do you think might be the reason for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U8	Thank you. Having held a responsible office, I cannot fail to mention my experience. Come on, come on, come on, come on! I didn't ask you to ask me about this, but it's important to me. A little hint was given to the convenient tax administration and fair tax collection within this hasty talk, especially from those who avoid taxes. My appointment as Minister of Finance was a time of very big reforms on this subject. We got away with it, but we just got a fantastic result in avoiding tax fraud: fuels and avoidance of VAT fraud through automatic tax administration. We should continue along the same path and, however, also engage in border trade. We basically shut down the bag trade on the Russian border, and we got millions because of it. Now it's how to say culture is gone. Catching envelope wages was one of the priorities of the tax administration. Now they discover what problems the Riigikogu and the government themselves have caused. There's definitely a new hole now. In the past, VAT fraud was the big hole in which the envelope wage money came, but it is now extremely convenient to get 500 euros in wages. Even the minimum wage has been met and everything seems beautiful, but it is extremely awkward to get more, because each next euro will be accompanied by an increased tax rate. I can't remember that margin anymore, but it was about 30%. And every manipulator thinks, hell, why do I have to raise my salary if I can pay more than 500 euros tax-free. I think it's a proper self-inflicted problem. The solution is extremely complex because this culture is created. But one solution is that we do not create this lump, we do not create a minimum withdrawal from EUR 500, an increased marginal tax burden that favours envelope wages. A uniform 500 tax-free minimum is the minimum that can be done, but of course this culture must come back. To be taken from where it is cheated, not where it is more convenient to take higher rates, insane excise increases and economic damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U9	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U10	Thank you. Good waitress! The tax loss resulting from the birth of the new government has certainly not contributed to economic growth and the competitiveness of the business environment in Estonia. At the moment, we must be happy that the global economy is in such a good position that taxes are still due to the Estonian budget and the five-sixth additional tax originally planned has now been postponed or cancelled for various reasons. But I want to turn to tax exemptions, which you mentioned in your report. I was quite surprised recently. A week ago, there was news that we could also grant tax exemptions to e-books. Everyone praised it as the best idea in the world, including the Minister of Finance. I was wondering how we have come to a situation where even the Minister for Finance does not understand that tax exemptions are a very inefficient and very expensive way of supporting some area. Their effects cannot even be accurately converted into money at one point, because we do not know how much money will flow out. Why don't you talk about tax exemptions again?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U11	Thank you for that question. First of all, I do not think that we have had the right Minister of Finance for many years. For the fourth year, we do not have a finance minister who can give honest answers and would also dare him. Not only is there a lack of conscience and character, in this case there is also a lack of competence. When an unexpected question is asked, it is so nice to give such a friendly and gentle answer that everyone likes: yes, of course, the book and'e' also, oh, what a bargain! But what, what problem do we solve? Everyone knows that e-book is cheaper than a regular book. In a regular book there's some kind of fluidum, cultural meaning, it's a thing that can preserve the cultural environment, unlike some kind of e-widget that basically is a file and doesn't pay anything. I do not see that the Minister of Finance should give the answers he has given. To give what is already cheaper, yet a tax credit for the exclusion of a book is absurd. However, books could have a uniform VAT rate of 20%, as this exemption is also very unequally distributed, and here too, the advantage is actually gained by wealthier consumers, not by the poorer. This could be done entirely by agreeing to subsidise more boldly valuables and to exclude these damn horoscopes, cookbooks and esoterics, which enjoy a favourable rate of VAT, from the advantage. The situation is very cynical. Let's see what's actually being bought and compare it to what we're subsidising. This mass culture, although called the purchase of a book, has no national or cultural weight compared to the money paid for it. So an honest tax rate with targeted support for fiction would be an honest tax policy, but the Minister of Finance completely cynically answers that, oh, we agree with everything, everything is great, of course, if the book gets a tax credit, then the e-book has to get it. The result is that the existing book advantage will also lose its effect once and for all, because the e-book will have an even greater advantage than it has already had because of the cost price.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U12	Thomas Paur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You've been Minister of Finance for a long time, so an expert. What's the title here: "Payment system chaos or locus"? Is it to make a mess?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U14	Thank you for those words and thank you for giving me the opportunity to confirm what you actually said: no, it is to put an end to chaos. We are always in tax chaos before the elections, but we have not been as silly in tax chaos as we are now, when stupid things have been said months in advance. Stupid things have already been done in 2016 and 2017 and we now need to treat them in such a way that even coalition parties do not accept this child, accept the increase in excise duty, adopt the tax system, embrace nothing, and are only able to correct mistakes in a way that we are now stealing half as much, we are raising half the alcohol excise duty. Well, that's not the answer. They say or they go to the screen to say that I wanted to lower that tax, his second and his third, and then we decided that, uh, everything was wrong, but let's not fix anything, let's just spend more. It's chaos! It's the logic of a band of robbers that we screwed up. It's chaos! With regard to the tax system, consideration is extremely important. It is extremely important to start holding the debate on what to do with labour taxes if labour is to be reduced. In the same way, I would like to get rid of these taxes, but on the other hand, I must admit that alternatives must be found instead, and it must also be recognised that taxes must be linked to the cash flow produced. So, in fact, it is easier to tax the workforce than, for example, property, but the workforce is simply being reduced and people are living longer and the solutions that can also maintain and promote the welfare of our society by changing the tax system, we need to look carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U15	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U16	Good President! Thank you, waitress. I really admit you had a very balanced presentation this time, but I still have questions. I agree with you on one thing: the economy is the foundation of everything and it needs to be developed. But even more important is the preservation of the Estonian people. You had the right view of socialism, but you didn't offer any solutions. I understand you admit that raising the tax-free share is a good thing because you want to apply it to everyone. But what would happen if you made it equal for everyone? After all, this was done primarily so that people with low and medium wages, recipients of such income, could also live normally in Estonia. But I'm also asking you about the simplification in your speech in the sense of a southern country, or alcohol duty. I admit that these excise duties could be different and lower. But why do we have to deal with Latvia only when we think about the alcouima, and why do you only treat it that way? Why do we not look at the whole Latvian tax system and the whole Latvian life? Latvia will apply this year's graduated income tax and a different VAT rate to its own specific products. Last thing: Latvia's social system is weaker and more developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U17	Thank you. Latvia is like our other self, the whole society has similar vices, but in a very amplified form. Look at their election results and reflect on the chaos that can be caused by stupid talk and selfish decisions for elections. Let's look in the mirror. However, we have been better than Latvia in making our tax system. Latvia has implemented too much a policy of cheap excise duty, hoping for easy money, without being able to organise society better. They have also gone along with reckless methods of attracting money in taxation. One of the reasons why in Latvia the problem of money laundering has been on a completely different scale than ours is that it is easy to attract money in all respects, including taxation. They are fighting it more honestly now than we are, because they admit the problem, we blame each other and bark under the wrong tree, not under where the problem is really created. Latvia has made another mistake. With great hurrah, it began to try an economic stimulus like a social tax ceiling. It was quickly reached where it always leads to progressive income tax. You can't make an honest social tax ceiling without compensating it with progressive income tax. It's just a socially provoking and regressive form of taxation that they had to quickly compensate for it by the levels of income tax. So one measure that I criticise is the social tax ceiling. Although it seems to be the right thing, it always ends with the chaos on the left. What else? Acts have indeed been the thing that has been said here that we should, like Latvia, introduce lower excise duties. Luckily, it hasn't gotten into the programs yet, but it made promises once. No, you don't. We must have an optimal excise duty, which would correspond, on the one hand, to our greater purchasing power and, on the other hand, to our ability to import cheap goods. I don't know what the drugs were. Latvia drinks too much, even more than we do. One reason is that they have stuck to the cheap excise policy. This is one of the reasons why I feel sorry for excise duties, they are a child expelled with washing water, see that even without washing water, because the damage actually increases by throwing them out, not the benefits come back.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U18	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U19	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jürgen Ligi! You said we could raise the value added tax (VAT) on books and periodicals. I remember when you did it back in the day. In my opinion, books and newspapers are still extremely expensive; they are not available to people. But that's what I'm asking. The chairman of your party, Kaja Kallas, has offered that social tax should be abolished. At the same time, we have not heard any ideas about what it has to do with other taxes or what you intend to do. You know very well that this means paid health care, and I do not know what will become of pensions. And also, if there's a moment left, maybe you'll name a country that doesn't have progressive income tax. Mongolia, Russia and But maybe you'll read them to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U20	Thank you. What was the first question? There was social tax, there was progressive income tax, and what was the beginning? Oh, book value added tax. I have not proposed to increase the value added tax (VAT) on books, but I have fought for a reduced rate of analysis, which has now been done by Praxis. First of all, socially even this noble thing is unfairly divided: the wealthy get more, the poor lose. In this sense, it does not improve access to culture where there is a problem of access, but indeed generously distributes money on seemingly noble grounds. I think, by looking at the reading preferences, that at least half of the booksirarchies do not deserve public subsidies at a reduced rate. That's my second reason. Cookbooks, esoterics, easy entertainment is not the culture we want to fund, but if we could get the tax on those books, we could fund a valuable culture by choice. This issue came up not because I had offered to raise VAT on books here, but because the Minister of Finance had to offer it, but because I could not believe it myself if I listened to it, as if there were a competition problem. No, it's not. E-books are cheaper, they reject valuable fluid from our culture, they're actually a file, they're actually a flash drive, figuratively speaking, whatever memory data carrier and file. There is no reason to give them a discount in front of the book that stands on the shelf and reminds us every time that we are in culture. The regular book should not be excluded, but I do not underestimate the cultural meaning of the e-book, of course, but it should not simply replace another cultural value. Then there was the question of progressive income tax. Estonia was still among the favorites I would like to name. Estonia had a very good tax system. From an economic point of view, he encouraged the economy to be promoted and the income earned in Estonia, not elsewhere, and the economic structure to be supported for higher added value, not vice versa. Such liberal freedom could be a higher and growing tax-free minimum. The government's message to the citizen is that I won't burden you with all your income, go to the gym or walk with sticks, I won't interfere with any tax credit, I won't pay you a separate marathon ticket if you're likely to have a heart attack on this marathon and you're not gonna be prepared for it more than you get the ticket. All these stupid exceptions, which are also shared, could be within this tax-free minimum and the state should not favour the choice of a gym and a ski-samaraton ticket instead of skiing and walking. It's not a healing advantage. But this is a separate discussion. And social tax. We do not have a proposal to abolish social tax. We are about to launch a discussion on this subject. Here too, Praxis and the respective structural unit of the Riigikogu have promised to contribute and present studies to what can be done to mitigate this risk, which is actually the reality that the share of the labour force in the population is decreasing, but social needs are increasing due to the ageing population. So this is where the tax structure needs to be changed. This must be discussed prudently, not in the form of chaos.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U21	Thank you, dear waitress. The 20 minutes for questions and answers have passed. Anyone who wants to ask more can ask the next performer, for example, because the subject is the same. We're not dealing with negotiations yet, but you have a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Is there any way to extend the additional time under the Rules of Procedure if the hall so wished? It was now a patronizing speech from a man who thinks that he has never been wrong or wrong in the past either in the present or in the future. I see that because of the length of his answers, perhaps only three or four people came to the same conclusion. This is not really a dialogue that we would like to have in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U23	That was part of the question that would qualify as a procedure. But I would like to remind you that it will be possible for a lot of people to speak later, including Jürgen Ligil, if he wants to speak again. We are not in the negotiating phase right now. But Jürgen Ligi also has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U24	Thank you. I have a procedural question. Would the Rules of Procedure make it possible to reassure people who burn their hats and who, for that reason, pretend to be a problem somewhere else than themselves? Will the Rules of Procedure allow a little of these procedural issues to be contained?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U25	Mr Ligi, as soon as possible, the Board of the Riigikogu will meet and discuss this issue thoroughly. Thank you. Now I ask for a chair of speech by Toomas Luman, Chairman of the Board of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, so that we can listen to his 20-minute presentation. The following questions will follow. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U26	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Taxes are always a topic on which there are many different views and opinions. In most cases, discussions before the elections become particularly passionate and far from fact-based. Everyone seems to know what needs to be changed and how. Businesses in this situation tend to hold their breath and hope that this time the bang will pass them. In most cases, however, this has not been the case. Whether one tax system is complex or simple is often based on world views and a reference base, but the truth is that over time laws tend to become more complicated due to the will of the legislator. There will be more exceptions, there will be a need to regulate changed patterns of behaviour, etc. All of this makes the tax system more complex, difficult to manage, ultimately more expensive and paradoxically more complex also creates new opportunities to evade tax payments and does not strengthen the morale of the correct payment of taxes. For this reason, before going to the content and for those who wish to leave the floor before the end of the report, I say immediately that the greatest desire for businesses to have a tax system is that it is simple and clear. We have quite often heard the claim that businesses do not want to pay taxes and are always looking for ways not to do so. I consider it necessary to argue against this. It is natural that an undertaking does not make its first objective of paying as much tax as possible to the State. The purpose of an entrepreneur's activity is to earn business income, but he accepts that the payment of taxes is included in that activity. There are certainly different operators with different world views and morals, but most understand very clearly where the resources that finance public services and ensure the functioning of the state come from and, unfortunately, businesses often understand well when money collected through the tax system is used in an inefficient or purposeless way. For businesses, a good tax system is one that is simple and understandable and has the lowest possible cost of administration for both the taxpayer and the tax collector. The system must also be transparent, which means that not only the author of the system's creator or the text of the law must understand it, but every other intelligent person must also be able to understand what is written in the rules and how these rules must be met. The tax system must not discourage income earning or entrepreneurialism. Taxpayers must be treated equally, without creating unjustified advantages for anyone and without favouring market distortions, and the basis on which the tax is collected must be as wide as possible. In the open and small economy of Estonia, it is not possible to guarantee higher tax revenues through high tax rates, but only a broad tax base. The bigger our economy, the more people and employers active in business, the more successful export routes, the wider the tax base and the greater the potential income. It is true that businesses have often been dissatisfied with tax issues. If the system were to be unraveled into pieces, it would probably be possible to highlight aspects that no one likes or, on the contrary, likes for each government and Riigikogu time. Of course, higher tax rates are dissatisfied, especially when taxation rates are lower in our neighbouring countries or in countries where a competitor is active. However, I believe that it is more frustrating than the high tax rate to play with the tax system and to assess the impact of changes by trial and error. Frequent changes and speculations on the proposed changes have a negative impact on the business environment. An unstable tax environment is never conducive to investment or growth. The reason why businesses are investing now is certainly not only in the tax system, but also in the fact that the price of money is low and the external environment is positive and that it is looking for a way out of the rapid growth in labour costs. Secondly, entrepreneurs are rightly dissatisfied when little or most of the changes in tax are paid attention to how the proposed change affects the international competitiveness of Estonian companies. As far as it is up to us, we must support our businesses, not by giving back subsidies from collected tax money, but by means of an equal tax environment conducive to growth in the competitiveness of companies. Thirdly, satisfaction and increased tax compliance should not be expected if tax changes ignore the risk assessments and recommendations of businesses and other experts. If there is a clear problem or objective that taxes are trying to solve, it is always possible to look together with business for ways to do so in the most sensible way. However, if this is not recommended and warnings from entrepreneurs, which mostly prove true, are ignored, then you should not expect applause. Man is emotional and often irrational in his behavior. The effects of the changes may also not be uniform, as we have seen in the case of excise duties. Ignoring such threat assessments or one-sided assessment of the effects is usually very painful and I believe that no politician or any member of the government really wants to do so. What should be Estonia's tax policy route? If anything about what has been said here seems to be repeated, it is only because these are the most important issues for businesses. Firstly, our system and its changes must keep the resources spent on tax collection and payment to be kept to a minimum. We are one of the most effective tax collecting countries among OECD countries, which means that the least money is spent on collecting one euro tax money. It has to stay that way. If regulations supporting efficiency or tax obligations can be created, this must be done. However, the impact of any new tax change on the cost of tax collection, both from the tax administration's and from the taxpayer's point of view, must certainly be assessed. Secondly, it is in your hands, as legislator, whether or not businesses trust our tax system and believe it will last. It is always possible to make changes with political will, but the question is whether the legitimate expectations of taxpayers are taken into account. We are not going to trial with the country today, not because we would never have liked to challenge the legislator's right to change previous policies, but because we believe that the laws are to be enforced equally by both businesses and politicians. If the law states that it is generally necessary to give at least half a year to adapt to the changes, whether it is respected is not only a matter of political culture, but is a matter of compliance with the law. The lawyers and the Ministry of Finance have unfortunately assessed that this provision of the Tax Administration Act, which your predecessors adopted virtually unanimously at the last sitting of the Riigikogu, does not apply because it is based in the wrong law and is in poor wording. It's like the law is, but it's not. I do not know where this dispute leads to in the Supreme Court, but I think that today's Riigikogu would be able to change the content of the provision without waiting for the Supreme Court's assessment, so that it will apply, as the legislator once anticipated. Then the largest business organisation should not argue with the state in court. Thirdly, we believe that, before any tax change affecting the business environment, but also people's incomes and the tax burden, it is necessary to analyse the implications of a specific change for the international competitiveness of our companies. The Riigikogu can be the filter that asks the initiator if it is not included. Fourthly, the corporate tax system supporting Estonia's differentiation and entrepreneurship must be maintained. This has been undoubtedly one of the best economic and tax policy decisions ever taken in Estonia, and there is no need to change this system. There would certainly be many times more losers than potential winners, and it would mostly be small and medium-sized enterprises that would lose. We have grown up in a whole new generation of entrepreneurs, most of whom do not even know what the traditional corporate tax system means, and do not know how to fear its negative effects. Here, politicians need to listen to those entrepreneurs who have experience of acting during both systems. But I'll tell you more about it right now. I would like to emphasise once again the subject of the impact assessment of tax changes. I'm not tired of repeating it, because mostly lack of impact analysis means negative effects. If the official does not knowingly or unawarely assess the effects, the Riigikogu is ultimately responsible. I therefore consider it important to repeat this point here. The effect of a change in the tax rate on tax receipts is never linear. The impact of tax reductions on tax revenues can be both negative and positive. The same applies to the increase in the tax rate, which is not merely an Excel calculation. These examples are present both in distant and near history and should be learned from them. I agree that it is difficult to assess people's behaviour, but we have enough scientific competence in Estonia to try to do so. We do not drive a race in tax policy, where every second counts, and decisions have to be made literally on the fly. After all, the system works in principle, and if there has not just been a global financial crisis, then this time must be taken and, together with specialists and entrepreneurs, this thought exercise must be carried out. Here is also an example of what happens when you assume that the effect of a tax change is linear. In January 2009, the employer's tax base for granting the special benefit for the private use of the passenger car increased exactly twice. The budget included an additional tax revenue, estimated at EUR 24 million in the first year and assumed that after three years the positive impact would be even higher, i.e. EUR 29 million per year. But it went differently. There was no growth, there was a decrease. What happened? The reason is simple. As a result of such a rapid increase in the tax base, companies changed their habits so far that the tax base simply dried up. I am convinced that this impact could have been prevented or at least substantially reduced. The other way around. Even 19 years ago, or before Estonia became subject to today's corporate tax system, there were numerous people who said that the 0% tax rate on reinvested profits and the abandonment of traditional profit tax will drastically reduce tax revenues. It would probably not have been possible to see a reduction in the income of legal persons between 2000 and 2002, if the Russian crisis had not been in the same period (1998 and 1999) and the economic crisis would not have exploded in the Far East countries. At the same time, the subsequent analyses and, in particular, the analysis carried out by Praxis in 2011 have shown that although the collection of income tax on legal persons could theoretically have been higher in the case of the traditional tax system, there was a positive impact due to the better collection of other forms of tax. VAT, labour taxes and consumption taxes were better received, as changes in the income tax system had a positive impact on them in tax policy. Let's take a look at this slide. The analysis already referred to showed clearly that the tax reform increased the volume of capital in the economy, consumption and, ultimately, GDP. The net profit of companies increased almost three-and-a-half times annually. I dare say that this was one of the clearer and more thoughtful tax reforms, nor was it feared that, in the short term, the reform would have a negative impact on the budget. I do not think that these objectives are important today. Do we want to go back to the time when companies often had several accounts or when their own financing was transferred to a bank office with a suitcase to obtain a loan? I'm sure it wouldn't make sense. Let's remind ourselves of that time. Before this change in the income tax system, Estonia had an interesting statistical picture. As of 1999, 65% of companies over five years of age had never earned income in Estonia. It's not real. The company does not sweat for five years, making only losses. This percentage was particularly high among small and medium-sized enterprises. After this change, there was no need for double accounting, a completely different level of balance sheet was created. Here you can also see: 1999 versus 2000, the turnover of companies grew by barely 15%, but the declared profits jumped three and a half times. When comparing the share of income tax paid by Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian companies in their GDP, we see that Estonian companies are essentially at the same level, but with the distinction that we have had a relatively stable share and, of course, with the distinction that our companies have been free to decide whether to invest profits or to pay dividends. However, it cannot be said that we would have made a negative change for the state budget if we compared ourselves with the neighbouring countries that are moving along a similar development path to us. This means that in Lithuania, where the corporate tax rate is 14%, companies pay tax as a percentage of gross national product as much as in Estonia. Here is one basic question that I think is excluded from the discussions: the claim that taxes on income generated in Estonia by business are not paid or that companies do not pay income tax is not true. We tax certain types of payouts, which in other countries are all business-related costs, that is, before calculating profits. However, it is even more interesting to look at the share of income tax on legal persons in the total tax revenue. It turns out that in this comparison Estonian companies pay tax as much as companies in Germany, the difference is only that in Germany there is traditional corporate income tax, which is close to 30%. Again, our companies are free to choose whether to pay dividends or invest, but German colleagues must seek tax exemptions with the help of a tax consultant. I would also like to point out that several years ago, Germany had serious controversy over the meaning of this system when it became apparent that one of their largest industrial groups had not actually paid a cent of corporate tax in 29 years. Finally, the balance sheet base is extremely manageable and verifiable. A tax system based on pay-out is substantially easier to manage. To sum it up. The tax system is not a matter of itself. If there is a desire to achieve clear policy objectives, then tax policy is undoubtedly one of the means to reach them. However, one of our main objectives should be to increase the competitiveness of businesses and the economy. Taxes are important here, but any changes must be made by listening to entrepreneurs and involving research competences. Our tax rates must help companies, and especially exporting companies, to be competitive. Only in this way will we increase the tax base from which to collect tax revenue. It is important to agree on a minimum standard of tax stability so that it applies and is actually the guarantee of legitimate expectations. The interest of businesses is also that tax changes, including tax increases, can be introduced gradually over a longer period than a year. It's questionable right now. However, entrepreneurs would like to live with more knowledge than one year, allowing them to plan longer-term investments. When designing any tax change, the impact on tax collection must always be assessed. We cannot afford inefficient taxes, the cost of which is so high that it accounts for a greater proportion of tax revenue. Finally. Our corporate tax system continues to work and will certainly help our companies to overcome any economic crisis better this time than the companies in our neighbouring countries. Last time, it worked a lot. If anyone wants to replace a functioning system with something for just 18 years, then these innovative ideas could at least be novel. To replace a relatively new, functioning and distinct system with a relic that has been practiced in the world since the beginning of the 20th century is neither reasonable nor innovative. Thank you, honourable Riigikogu, for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U27	Thank you, honored performer, for talking. You have questions. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U28	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! A little while ago, there was talk of tax distinctions. But my question would be how do you feel about regional tax differences in Estonia. Could they be or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U29	I do not think that regional tax distinctions are really manageable. I think that, from a regional policy point of view, regional investment grants or such measures would probably be more sensible, because they would be more manageable, because they would go to support the construction of a specific production building or infrastructure or the acquisition of some equipment, which, as is said to be located, is much easier to explain, would be more manageable and would not allow for a variety of tricks and perhaps possible fraud in applying for these benefits. As regards, in general, whether regional support for entrepreneurship should be provided, looking today at the data from the 2000 and 2011 censuses, it can be seen that indeed, in several regions, the population declines drastically and is probably one of the main causes of this shortage of jobs. This means that we really need to think about whether there are any measures in place to encourage the creation of new jobs in these regions. One measure would certainly be precisely support for infrastructure, production buildings, production equipment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U30	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U31	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! Since the damage from raising excise duties too high has already been done, I ask what your recommendation is for today's government. How can we improve this situation, which is the concrete steps that should be taken to reduce further damage?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U32	I would not dare to make recommendations to today's government, given the number of votes and the relationship in Parliament, but I would make recommendations to the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu could be braver in reducing excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, thank you for your report. This was extremely interesting and it really must be accepted that Estonia has been innovative in shaping its tax system. You spoke about the corporate tax reform in 2000. In the same year, the e-Tax Board was also established; Estonia was the first to switch to proportional income tax in the world, but at the same time many elements of the tax system still originate from the last century and are, as in the past, in the form of social tax or even the VAT system. I ask what the Chamber of Commerce thinks of this idea in order to share the social tax burden between the contractor and the employer. You can argue that what you need it for doesn't change much. But at the same time, when the contractor contributes, more interest, wages become more internationally comparable, and when the contractor contributes, he is also interested in receiving better services from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U34	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U35	Thank you for your question. For years, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has strongly and openly supported the distribution of social tax between the contractor and the employer. From our point of view, of course, there should be an automatic recalculation of wages at this point in time. Yes, with regard to such a model, the question can indeed be asked: what would change the cost base for companies' labour costs if this did not change? In our opinion, this will change the fact that contractors will become significantly stronger for social control, so that where and how this money is used. We have proposed that a personal account of contractors be created from the same section of contractors. Even if it were an initiative for some very small part of the tax paid, they could use healthcare consumption according to their choice, in which health institution, etc. We are convinced that such an increase in social control, social participation and thinking through employees will help to improve the effectiveness of the entire social system and this would be beneficial.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U36	Thomas Väinaste.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The Reform Party considers a uniform tax system as an opportunity for our success. Can you tell us which European countries have a proportionate income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U38	Thank you for your question. First, I'll come back to the concepts again. I very much like it when it is said that we have a proportionate income tax system and we have to make it gradual, and others say that we do not have to do this. Honourable questioner! Unfortunately, we no longer have a proportional income tax system in Estonia, and I think we currently have a tax system of 500 or 600 degrees. Whether these steps are all in the right place and in the right measure now, isn't that the question of political will? I wouldn't make these steps any more and take them higher, because, as the slides I showed tended to have one problem: those earning income who belong to the upper end have considerably greater and completely legal possibilities to optimize the legal forms of profit. I do not think that, in the end, revenue could increase significantly, and that is why I would not recommend doing so. But the Riigikogu is undoubtedly free in its decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U39	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U40	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you very much for your excellent presentation. What you said to me was that the period of notice of changes in the tax system could be longer than what is now politically accepted. This period of notice is, in general, a pretty acute point of discussion in politics, not only in terms of the tax system, but also between employers and employees. But I'm gonna check it out. We have, in general, been talking here, however, that the period of notice of changes to the tax system could be six months. I understand you'd still like a long time, more than a year, or see that it could be a little longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U41	Thank you for your question. Yeah, it could be an optimal and reasonable year. Our understanding was that at the end of the previous Riigikogu there was a social and political consensus that we would start with six months. Turns out we were lost. That's why we're going to court. Our position is that we do not want to go to court with the Estonian state, but we want to find out whether this paragraph of the law applies or does not apply. If he or she is valid, he or she must be complied with, and if the Supreme Court's view is that he or she really does not apply in such wording and formality, then it is the view of the entrepreneurs that we must begin to improve this text. Our first objective is to restore the political and social agreement that we believe has been achieved. A purely economic engineering approach would probably be optimal for 12 months.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U42	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for your meaningful presentation. I wanted to ask you a nice place for a simple question. Is and how have civil servants and municipal officials correlated with the regularity of their tax payments and with the tax optimizations of private companies with conscience? Who is the main tax payer in the country, civil servants or private entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U43	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U44	I don't have that kind of statistics on hand. Now, if you're asking who's more honest, whether entrepreneurs or civil servants, when I'm watching the press, it seems to me that there are sinners in both sections.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U45	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You also pointed out in one of your answers the need for certain regional investments, so that it might be fairer and fairer. But let us look at the tax policy that has now been pursued at national level. Do you agree with the opinion of the experts who have said that the difference is more than 20% due to the excise duties that have been rolled over, which means that small shops have been closed down in South Estonia? Do you see a problem in this, or do you just consider it a natural reaction to the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U47	Thank you for your question. We have said this repeatedly, and also in this debate, when this sudden rise in excise duty was discussed in the past, we predicted that this would lead to a change in the behaviour of people and also of companies. These changes and the extent of these effects can be completely unpredictable. Undoubtedly, the damage to the retail trade in South Estonia is a regional problem, in which we fully agree with the questioner. Solving the problem may already be almost impossible, for the simple reason that, if stores are closed for more than 12 or 24 months, they will most likely not be opened for technical reasons, because they will not be able to meet all the sanitary and other standards again. To this end, these shops should probably be heavily renovated, which is not possible under existing market conditions. How could these shops re-emerge? I have already said one answer: the Riigikogu could be a little bolder in correcting things that have gone wrong. Another story is that if there were to be jobs in the processing industry in these regions, for example, through these regional investment grants, then a merchant would probably end up there. But it's probably no longer real that first comes the merchant. This is unfortunately an irreversible process in a large number of South-Estonia's regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U48	As the procedural question does not count as a key issue, Jürgen Ligil now has the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U49	Thank you. Mr. Luman! A large part of the tax case is a narrow view of interest groups, putting pressure on politicians and not really looking at a big picture, a broad tax base and a fair system. Couldn't entrepreneurs be the company that looks at and tells politicians with a clear voice that we don't need it, don't stick your bright ideas, keep stability and fix a few important things? Could businesses contribute to the tax peace before the elections in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U50	Thank you for an interesting question. I have had the honour of being the head of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry for 23 years today. Ironically, at least there will be something stable in the country, but I do not know that during this period the Chamber of Commerce would have wished to replace the Government of the Republic or the Riigikogu in its functions. We have always agreed to share our views on tax policy exclusively with all governments and all members of the Riigikogu. At least in our better understanding, we have shared this from the very point of view of whether one or the other tax change, tax correction or addition to the tax law will help the Estonian economy to grow or hinder the process. If anyone has understood our proposals differently, I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U51	Sven Sester, first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for this presentation. I fully share the view that tax policy must be predictable, understandable and transparent. Far from it, I do not agree with this position, which has been said in the past by the Chairman of the Reform Party Group, that there are only 4% of entrepreneurs in society and that they speak with a too loud voice. But I have a question about the differences. The previous waitress also stated that all distinctions should be abolished. I know that the Chamber of Commerce has also addressed the political groups and the country on a number of occasions in writing on certain possible differences. Some of them have now finally come into force. For ten years, for example, the health cost premium was actually covered, now we have finally been able to do it, we have been able to do the participation options. Value added tax (VAT) on accommodation costs was no longer required to pay a special discount tax, which was long and long under discussion, but never reached the "final phase'. Now we are also working on bringing ships under the Estonian flag. Do you share the idea that we should deal with these differences, or do you also say that the old situation should actually be restored with regard to health costs, VAT on accommodation expenses, etc.? Please, give me an overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U53	Thank you for your question. I wouldn't dare to be the way to say it, with strong wording, as it has sometimes been the case in this Chamber, that all the distinctions are from the devil. Undoubtedly, the differences are difficult to manage, but the Chamber of Commerce believes that they are justified when we rely on the international competitiveness of the Estonian economy. For example, if we are based on what is happening in our neighbouring countries or a tourist coming from a distance does not make much difference if he arrives in Helsinki, Tallinn or Riga, and if our tax system makes staying significantly more expensive than Riga or Helsinki, the tourist coming from a distance is more likely not to come to Tallinn. I mean, I'm gonna say it again, I wouldn't say that all the differences are from the devil. In general, it would be good if there were as few differences as possible, but if the differences are justified, especially in terms of the international competitiveness of our economy, they must be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U54	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your thorough presentation. It was also very educational. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry has studied the trend in the payment of envelope wages in Estonia, which has allegedly increased over the last few years. This is what we hear when we walk around Estonia; people are worried. How do you assess the changes to the current, in our view, chaotic tax system? Has their influence been present in this development?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U56	Thank you for your question. In my presentation, I also did not try to evaluate today's, yesterday's or the day before the Estonian tax system from the point of view of chaoticity, because, within the limits of my academic knowledge, I am simply not able to do so. But when it comes to the payment of the envelope wage, unfortunately, we have to admit that this trend is rising. There are some reasons for this, in our opinion. The first reason is that there is a change in the taxation of working pensioners; they are not interested in obtaining the previously declared remuneration. No one has turned to me in my companies to change this system, but very many entrepreneurs say that very many working pensioners have turned directly to them with a request to restructure things and not exactly in the law-abiding direction. Another very serious reason, however, is the change in the pension system, which I think should take place in the distant future, but already today's recipients say that there is no point in earning over the minimum wage if, after that, everyone is divided equally. So, unfortunately, these are again two examples of the failure to listen to experts, the failure to listen to the research potential of Estonian universities, the failure to listen to warnings from the entrepreneurial world.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U57	Thank you, honourable waitress, for your report and your answers. Since we can only call for help in 32 seconds, we can't ask any more questions. Today's third presentation is from Dmitri Egorov, Deputy Chancellor of Taxation and Customs Policy of the Ministry of Finance, which is also 20 minutes long. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U58	Mr President, President of the Riigikogu and members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for this opportunity to speak to you about taxes. What I want to talk about today is divided into three parts. First of all, I would like to talk about what the environment is in which we operate, where Estonia operates. I would like to talk briefly about what has been and what could be the decision-making process on taxation. Finally, I will highlight some areas and topics that merit attention. But before I go to the content, in order to ensure the credibility and credibility of my speech and to dispel doubts, I would like to confirm that in March next year I will go to the elections as a voter alone. Unfortunately, many doubts have come to my attention. Perhaps also by taking advantage of some of the hospitality and invitation of the Reform Party that I would like to apologize in advance if I dare to question an idea, of course, as an expert. But now to the substance. The environment in which we operate is not at all crazy. The final comparison with the whole world that we have shows that we are 14th with our tax system, according to the so-called aggregate of all parameters. Like I said, it's not bad at all. The only thing you can't look at from this study, which is a study of PricewaterhouseCoopers and World Bank, is the tax burden. There's a bit of a misguided methodology that the local PwC is familiar with. It is not based on the size of the tax burden, but on the name of the nominal payer of the tax. Thus, for example, Denmark is the fourth largest in this order in terms of small taxes, which, we know, of course, is not the case. For example, let us look at OECD data. The Estonian tax system has been at the forefront of competitiveness for several years. It's a rather complicated set of rules on the basis of which they value it. We will know in a few days if we can keep the lead this year, as a new ranking will be published in October 2018. This is a relative index, which means that if we do not modernise our tax system, other countries may pass us. Our problem, based on this index, is a relatively high rate of VAT, but it is characteristic of the entire European Union, so here we have fellow sufferers. At the same time, we also have some differences that, of course, distort economic reality. Otherwise, we won't have a big problem with this index. Now let's talk about where we are in Europe. The tax burden forecast for next year is known to be 33,6% of GDP. As you can see, we live and operate in a continent where the tax burden is rather high. The question here is not about Estonia's own competitiveness, but about the competitiveness of the European Union in a changing world. I would point out that attention must be paid to these data, because if social security is guaranteed by compulsory insurance, which is not a tax, this is not reflected here. For example, this right-hand column is Switzerland, as you can see, the tax burden is 27.7% of GDP, but it does not take into account that Switzerland also has a duty to buy itself health insurance, it is available to everyone. The ability of the tax authorities to collect taxes is also important. If tax rates are high, but tax collection capacity in the country is poor, then the tax burden is low, but it is difficult for honest companies to operate. For example, we know that Latvia's tax burden in 2016 was slightly above 30%, i.e. lower than Estonia's tax burden, but if we look at, for example, how much wage tax is paid in Latvia, if they are paid honestly, then we can see that the number is significantly higher than the number in Estonia. It's very difficult to see any specific numbers on this graph, but that wasn't the goal. The goal is to see where these arrows lie. The first graph on the top left shows how much indirect taxes play in our tax receipts. So this is the order of the European Union. The second graph, left in the middle, is direct taxes, except social tax. The third graph is social tax or social contributions. As you can see, we are strongly inclined towards indirect taxes. Direct taxes play a much smaller role and, in terms of social tax, we are such a good average. The right-hand graph shows how much labour taxes we collect, which is such an estimated labour tax rate, when we put together all taxes on labour. As far as the tax burden on labour is concerned, unlike widespread myths, as if the tax burden on our labour was too high, it is not, in fact, high. We are quite in the middle of Europe, 15th in the 28 Member States. Our labour tax burden is one-tenth lower than the European average. So there is really no reason to claim that the tax burden on Estonian labour is too high. Of course, it should not be forgotten that we live in a continent such as Europe, where the total tax burden is higher than the rest of the world. This is a question of competitiveness for the whole of Europe. But it is also important to look at how the tax burden is distributed between the different ends of the pay scale. For a very long time, we have overcharged a small salary, a low income compared to the European average, and we have just as much undertaxed higher wages compared to the rest of Europe. The problem with the lower pay balance has been solved in terms of level. It's a question of whether everyone likes the solution that we have right now. Higher wages have been taxed very competitively and there are no problems. This is also one of the reasons why, as experts, we have always been able to argue against the introduction of a social tax ceiling. We have a very eloquent experience in Latvia, where the social tax ceiling lasted for two years and led to a very large amount of money, but did not bring any more high-paid jobs. Now a little bit about the decision-making process. An expert or official shall be able to contribute effectively when he understands the problem to be solved. By developing the tax system, we are looking for and trying to apply some specific logic. For example, are our fuel types taxed according to their energy content? I can tell you, definitely not right now. For example, fuel types with the same energy content may be taxed differently up to 30 times. This is a very serious threat to neutrality. Neutrality in taxation is a very big issue; taxpayers could take decisions based on what is economically beneficial for them, not on how much or how little tax the country wants to take. Similarly, it is important whether tax incentives are effective. We really do have problems with some tax incentives. Ultimately, we always have preferences placed in the next order. If extra money is needed, we should first see if the payment can be better managed, i.e. better collected already existing taxes. Then we need to see if there are some differences, some tax incentives that are not effective enough. Maybe he can lose them. And, of course, only then could we talk about new taxes. As I have already said, if we know what kind of problem needs to be solved, which is a problem, then we can also offer solutions, because it is our job to explore the practices of other countries, our job is to order and, if possible, carry out research and our work is also to carry out analyses. But it is really annoying to look for suitable problems when the solution is already in place. In addition, it is logical that if there is no room for manoeuvre, this solution may not be the best. But, of course, since we serve the government, we will formalise any decision that has come through political will. Of course, there is also the question of whether there is a problem, whether it is a cause or a consequence. I can say, for example, that the share of property taxes in Estonia is indeed very low, but in itself this is not a problem. It becomes a problem when small taxes on assets leave no room to change or reduce other taxes, but there is a desire to reduce these other taxes. In the same way, the high tax burden is not a problem in itself; the consequence is: poorer economic growth and poorer citizens, poorer than the economic economy would allow. Tax policy is secondary and will remain secondary. Taxes have three roles: revenue to the state, redistribution and behavioural orientation. They are also answered by the decision-making positions: how much the state must play in the lives of citizens, how much the state plays in business, how much solidarity is in society and how many failures need to be mitigated. None of these decisions is fiscal. In terms of public revenue, a neutral tax system is always better, because then the citizen's decisions are based on a non-tax basis; they are based on all other objective criteria. For other roles, it must be convinced that solving the problem through a tax measure or tax policy is the most effective way of solving this problem. I can say that the belief in the omnipotence of tax policy is unfounded. Very many businesses believe that all their problems come from taxes, and very many politicians believe that tax incentives can improve everything. Unfortunately or luckily, they're both quite often wrong. It is believed that tax issues in the OECD have the best competence in the world. They have two very interesting, very thorough research papers, the first of which, from 2010, is rather right-hand and the second, from 2016, is rather left-hand. These papers say that taxes have a very different impact on economic growth. The most harmful is the profit tax, the least harmful is the current taxes on assets. On the other hand, we need equality. And that's what the other paper says. If society has underutilised and unused resources, it is a waste of society's resources. Perhaps efficiency-enhancing tax reforms must take into account that greater equality is also needed in Estonia, but tax reforms that improve equality must be as effective as possible. Regarding the second study, it can be said that the worst thing about grants is to remain dependent on them even if they could manage on their own. It's always worth remembering. But the IMF is also a great source of wisdom on tax issues. Their empirical studies show that tax increases have a lasting negative impact on GDP per capita. The impact, of course, depends on how these tax shocks, tax effects are measured. But the consensual view says that if the total tax burden increases by 1% of GDP, it will have a long-term impact on real GDP, i.e. on real growth between 0.5% and 1%. Finally, the choice of issues to be addressed. First of all, an interesting quote from the time I worked for the Tax and Customs Board. One very good IT partner once told us that it is a pleasure to work with you, that you decide very quickly and that is very important, but there is a negative aspect, of course, that you will decide more quickly. So time for decision-making is always needed, speed and the formulation of problems are indeed a problem. Today, the title asks whether there is chaos or consideration. I'd say there's no chaos, but there's no consideration too often. It is also important that the effectiveness of tax incentives is actually questioned in the Estonian tax system. Here's a graph of the Praxis survey. I'll give you one discount. It's the same accommodation service we've been talking about. 45% of this tax credit goes to 20%, or one fifth of the richest. This is how we assess the effectiveness of tax incentives: whether they reach those they are intended for. On the basis of this schedule, one very effective tax credit exists in Estonia; it is a favourable treatment and medical technology because it is distributed uniformly in society. It is also important that we trust the Tax and Customs Board. The Tax and Customs Board has been talking for years about the need to introduce measures that prevent real threaders from using tanks. This has indeed been said for years, and it was only this year that we felt that there was a willingness to talk about it, and so the draft Tax Administration Act is currently in the Riigikogu. I hope that this law will soon be passed. We were the second largest in the European Union in 2016 in terms of the ratio of alcohol and tobacco excise duty to GDP. I don't have any new comparable data, but I'm pretty sure we're the first ones. Many excise duties are actually input into production or business. The borders are open in Europe, the common market is working and it is worth thinking about because they are production inputs. The voter is in Estonia, but very many questions are decided in Brussels. I very much hope that we will all be very active in what is being decided in Brussels. There, these initiatives are specifically managed, for example, by corporate tax, by the countries which, in the OECD's Competitiveness Index for Tax Systems, are located at the end of the table. Are we going to let them do this, or are we going to be actively involved in the debate, because the competitiveness of our tax system is at the forefront? Some laws have become obsolete, difficult to read or no longer work. For example, since 2000, the Income Tax Act has been amended almost 120 times. Indeed, a whole new text that is readable would be needed. The Local Tax Act does not work in essence, the largest source of tax revenue for local authorities among local taxes is parking fees. There are also problems with land tax: rates are no longer logical, tax prices do not correspond to reality. Package excise duty is a tax on large and honest companies, unfortunately. Finally, some questions for a longer discussion. We have an ageing and shrinking society, we have a digital economy and a Europe without borders. Maybe we can make a profit from the rest of the world. We have changing forms of work and, in a few years' time, we will have a reduction in euro money. These are all issues that need to be addressed. Our tax policy is secondary and it could remain that way if we know what goals all other policies are pursuing. The problem correctly identified and correctly formulated is half of the successful solution. So my appeal is: let us think about the problems before we offer a solution. Stability is a value in itself, Mr Luman has talked a lot about it. It creates certainty, it brings investment. Good taxes are the least impediment to growth, but growth must reach everyone. It's a known confrontation on the right-left scale, but a balance has to be found. Estonia must have the opportunity to make the most of its potential, whether the person has left or right views or has no views at all. I believe that here, in this house, you can find out exactly where this balance is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U59	Thanks to the waitress! We will now look for this balance by means of questions and answers. Helmut Hallemaa, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U60	Thanks for the presentation. I actually have three questions. One. We have been told that we have a simple tax system. Is Europe, then, worse because in most European countries, there is progressive income tax and classic corporate income tax? Compare these things. Is one bad and the other good, and why do our people and many businesses still go to these'sinful' countries? The second question is the issue of inequality. You brought it out very nicely and said that the problem of inequality in wage taxation has now been solved, as we have exponentially raised tax-free incomes. But now one big party wants to apply it to everyone. So are we going to bring the inequality back? The third question or the subject. You had better tax administration in the slide program as a necessity. What is wrong with us in this matter, and what better must we do to ensure that our taxes are better managed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U61	Thank you. I am deeply convinced that low wages are not improved with lower taxes. When people leave for other countries, it is largely because there is a higher salary. So what can be done? You can take the right decisions to help the economy grow, the faster the wages of the Estonian people will grow. As regards this proposal, which you quoted, if I understood correctly that EUR 500 for everyone, I think it is largely a question for politicians. It costs around EUR 200 million. Is this step worth this amount or not? Having worked for nearly ten years in the tax administration, I can assess the simplicity of the tax system and its governance. It would certainly be easier for everyone to manage equal tax-free income than it is now. But spending 200 million euros is a question of priorities, and those are the priorities you set in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. When comparing our tax system with systems in other countries, where, for example, there is progressive income tax, I would point out that in general, a certain degree of progression of the system is considered useful, albeit within certain limits. In our system, progression is already, in a limited way, completely present. One reason is the decreasing tax-free minimum. As far as better tax administration is concerned, I believe that the Tax and Customs Board is doing a good job here. There are some new proposals coming from them, for example, on envelope wages. Unfortunately, it has been for years that envelope wages are still a scourge in Estonia and are certain sectors where they are particularly harmful. Through the Ministry of Finance, a few proposals are coming from the Tax and Customs Board on how to take action in this area. This mainly concerns accommodation, catering and construction services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U62	Urmas Kruuse, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In this Riigikogu, when discussing severe increases in excise duty, it was justified on the one hand by health objectives, namely that alcohol consumption should be reduced. Now we see that consumption has not decreased, even former Minister Ossinovski has admitted in the interview that it has rather increased in South Estonia. Perhaps one of the most important goals promised to the MPs was not met. What advice did you give the minister at the time when such decisions were taken? I mean the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U64	Thank you. I have often heard the claim that alcohol policy seems to have failed. In fact, we cannot compare the current situation with what would have been if the tax rates were different. We can only guess what would have been. I simply point out that in 2005-2007 wages in Estonia increased by almost 40% in two years and alcohol consumption increased. If we convert it into bottles of vodka and count the number of people, excluding those who do not drink at all and who consume very little of it, this amount would have increased by nearly 18 bottles in two years. We have not seen anything like this at the moment; consumption has remained essentially at the same level. Yes, it was said that consumption has to decrease, but it has not decreased. So maybe alcohol policy, which has been pursued through, among other things, excise policy, has met its objectives because wages have grown well over the last two years, but alcohol consumption has not increased so much at the same time. The advice we gave to the Minister of Finance was that this is a dangerous decision, a decision whose impact is very difficult to calculate and predict precisely. To congratulate the Minister of Finance at the time (he is also in this Chamber), I must say that we wrote in the Development Plan of the Ministry of Finance, in the strategy that there are very high risks of increasing border trade. He's the one who got us to write that sentence down. So these risks were up, something like this hadn't been done in the past, and therefore, as my colleague says, the prediction is always wrong, that's why he's the forecast, that's why these confidence limits were very wide and it was not possible to bring out the effects with decimal precision. Of course, account must also be taken of what some journalistic research has been published in the press over the last month, namely how much alcohol prices depend on differences in national excise policies and how much they pay. For some types of alcohol, the price difference is only 40% explained by the difference in alcohol duty and 60% by the difference in mark-up. This is also the reason why we are warning that if excise duty on alcohol is even lowered to Latvia's level, please do not expect border trade to disappear from 100% of the day. Yeah, I'm sure he can, in human language, have a good shot, but it's not possible to give 100% guarantees that he'll disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U65	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for a very good presentation. You're the right man to ask. As an elected ambassador from South Estonia, I kept pointing out that the increase in alcohol duty will lead to disaster. I'm not gonna tell you: the disappearance of small stores and all the tax losses. But the Minister of Finance at the time repeatedly told me in private that everything was under control, his officials told him that everything was under control, so, Peter, don't worry. Now I ask you: are you and your team responsible for giving the Minister of Finance the wrong advice, or was it that the Minister of Finance did solo without listening to your assessment? Who's lying now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U66	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U67	Thank you for your question. I would not be happy to comment on what you have been discussing alone with the Minister for Finance at the time, because I was not present and I did not know what was being said. The forecasts were prepared by the officials of the Ministry of Finance. As I said, quoting my colleague, the prediction is indeed always wrong. None of this had been done in the past, which means that the confidence limits of the forecast were very wide. So if they say you're going to get 50 million, but the probability of a mistake is ±20 million, then the estimate is going to be valid even if it's only 30 million, or 40%. There is nothing to do, if there is not enough reliable data for a more accurate estimate, then that is the case. There is one thing I would like to mention, however. When we talk about shops closing down in South Estonia, we must consider that some shops have also closed down in northern Latvia. That's what Postman wrote about. It's because these border shops are different types, they're storage stores. Let's put it figuratively: there's a light bulb under the ceiling and the goods are on the balls, it's possible to sell in bulk and very cheap. As a result, some North Germans go to the border to buy alcohol, so shops in these villages have closed down. So no one has lied, the forecasts that were made to the Minister of Finance are simply such a wide margin of confidence, because they were unprecedentedly large steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U68	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U69	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, good waitress. You approached the matter internationally, but if you look at it internally, the tax environment is actually an emotional issue, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, because our problem in the near future is the labour market, the lack of working hands, is because we cannot pay decent wages, or because the ageing population is a problem. Here's my question. Do you think the tax environment squeezes small and medium-sized enterprises? This is particularly the case with labour taxes. Is this necessary to further develop the issue, and what solutions do you think are possible to reduce labour shortages? We are likely to experience overheating, as the state is planning to build a number of large objects at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U70	Thank you. As far as businesses and labour and wages are concerned, I would not look at them in the category of small or large enterprises, but I would look at the kind of pay they pay. The tax burden on labour varies not depending on who pays the salary, but depends on whether the salary is high or low in a given country. I can assure you that the tax burden on lower wages is quite competitive. If we compare our relative and absolute position with that of our closest neighbours, such as Finland, Sweden, Latvia and Lithuania, it turns out that it is also worth creating high-paid jobs in Estonia, because there is the lowest tax burden on wages. Of course, it must always be taken into account that taxes are never factor 1 and are not the only factor that is taken into account in the creation of jobs. Our tax system, which, for example, concerns corporate tax, has also been confirmed by a study carried out by the European Commission, supports the capital of small and medium-sized enterprises, because they have limited access to capital markets. Therefore, this study confirms that systems such as those in Estonia, but also in Sweden, where it is possible to generate tax-free reserves at the expense of profit, support investment. The possibility of investing in small and medium-sized enterprises is essential. As far as increasing the labour force through tax measures is concerned, it seems to me that, although it would still need analysis and validation with a little more scientific methods than just feeling that we have reserves among older people. But here, I'd rather look at the employers. Are there any levers to encourage employers to look for more older people, pensioners, and offer them job opportunities? Whether this is a social tax differentiation or is some other instrument, such as support, it must emerge from the analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U71	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U72	Thank you. Honourable waitress! First of all, I congratulate you on your determination, because the implementation of the current government's tax policy is like this famous Chinese curse: that you live in interesting times. But I am also glad to hear that not everything has gone wrong yet and we have not fallen down on all ratings. At the same time, I am not quite sure whether a country that has been the best in the world for several years in a row should at all be able to compare itself with the European average. If, among the OECD countries, our system has been rated as the best, then perhaps the rest of us should be aligned, rather than we should be aligned by the average. I am also not quite sure whether energy content is the most important thing to measure, or whether it is pollution, but they are such finests. My question concerns envelope wages. This was also the case with the previous speaker, Toomas Luman. The facts tell us that envelope wages have more than one-and-a-half-folded in one year, before that, there was a downward trend for ten years. What's the reason for this jump? If the reason is not a tax system, what else could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U73	Thank you. First of all, as regards the first place of the OECD and the European Union average, my comment was that, despite the electorate being in Estonia, we must participate very actively in pan-European debates and monitor where pan-European guidelines come from. Since we have a very competitive tax system, I think that we can rely on it and that our voice could sound much stronger in Europe than it is today, because the competitiveness of the European Union as a whole is being questioned in this changing world. As for the increase in envelope wages, there's one very strange thing here, but we know that's how this algorithm works. This is linked to economic growth. Envelope wages are paid more when the employee needs to be paid something more, such as a bonus, and bonuses are paid very much just when there are good times in the economy. A man has a basic salary, it's official. Moreover, if we have a period of economic growth, the construction sector will grow and people will have significantly more money to go out to eat, for example. Catering and construction are two major sectors where envelope wages are very important, unfortunately it is still very important there. These are economic reasons. Not only facts but also rumors and perceptions have a significant impact on human behavior. Unfortunately, I myself have had to give more than one interview, responding to journalists who should be informed of when a law will come into force and when something will change, but who asked if there really was no need to receive more wages than the minimum wage for future pensions. 2037 is the year in which this change should begin to run in 20 years, but unfortunately very many people have the understanding that the new pension arrangements are already in place. Accurate communication is very important. Until 2037 it is still worth taking your salary out officially. For our part, I'm sure we'll handle this communication.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U74	Urve Tiidus can still ask his question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Thank you, dear Vice Chancellor. The previous speaker mentioned a few times that there is a lack of impact analysis in the design of tax policy. In the example of Toomas Luman, entrepreneurs are dissatisfied because they do not analyse the impact on the international competitiveness of companies when taxes are changed. It was also pointed out that Estonia is expected that the impact of tax changes will be linear. For example, in the case of tax changes, the impact on people's behaviour is totally excluded, whether there is no scientific analysis or simply no time. Can and how can such a situation and reproach be avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U76	Thank you. In my presentation, I also touched on this subject, and if possible, I will repeat my request. It will be much easier for us to deal with problems when the problems are clearly formulated, not when there is a'ready to do' solution. Sometimes we also have to look for the problem of which problem we will solve. I need more time. I very much agree with the previous speaker that at least six months should certainly be that time, which will actually allow taxpayers to get used to the changes. You can't get a good thing fast and cheap. We really need time to ensure that solutions are reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U77	Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation and your answer to the questions. The compliment is sincere, because this hall is exceptionally rarely thanked for its performances. I am sure that all those people who would like to ask more will be able to reformulate their questions into speeches. But before I give the floor to Mr Stalnukhin for my first speech, I recall the beginning of today's sitting. The Estonian Reform Party Group has proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. This is the moment when we have to decide whether or not this need is at hand. In other words, we will vote in favour or against this proposal. Eiki Nestor, please, procedural!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U78	What was the proposal, until the agenda was exhausted or until the agenda item was exhausted?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U79	Until this item is exhausted. We have quite a number of people here who have registered to be a speaker. My decision is that, since we are going to have a number of other items on the agenda, I call, however, for us to vote in favour or against this proposal. Jürgen Ligi, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U80	Thank you. The hall at the moment did not understand the comment we are voting on, either until the agenda is closed or the item is closed. We are willing to work together and we will specify this proposal: we still meant until the agenda was exhausted, but not more than 2:00. Maybe we could put it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U81	I suppose I put it that way. Since we have a rule that everyone can speak, this debate can be quite lengthy. All right, let's do it this way. Therefore, I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the sitting until the agenda item and the agenda are exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 50 delegates in favour of the proposal, 4 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal has been accepted. After all, we've come here to work. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U82	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Once upon a time, in the early 1990's, the Narva Language Centre, where I was working, received humanitarian aid from the United States. Some huge number of textbooks, old and pretty dirty. We looked forward to it because it was some kind of system that was unknown to us before. Among these books I found Lev Tolstoy's novel War and Peace, which was about one centimeter thick, like a comic book. I mean, not without bothering the kids, they had a comic book, a series of pictures that they found out about the main moments. Now, from this debate that we are having today. In fact, we sometimes sit with one specific paragraph of a particular law in the Commission for hours and discuss it. We're meeting with interested parties and organizations. We discuss, discuss and discuss. What can be done here in two hours when we are talking about the tax system? Only to be declared. To be declared only, one or the other. Having listened carefully to the three presentations, which are the focus of the subject, I would say that what Mr Luman said could be cut into stone like a law of Hammurapi. This summary, six points, is the kind of instruction we'd be weirded away from in our activities. And that's how we've been acting, except for the fourth point on excise duty. A third presentation was also professional and very useful. Here's what to remember and then remind you about what to talk about and what to discuss. However, when it comes to the introductory speech made by my colleague Jürgen Ligi,... Of course, thank you very much to the Reform Party Group, which organised today's debate. On a voluntary basis, I would never have gone to a pre-election meeting of the Reform Party, but maybe I got into it today. The classic has already described all the situations. Everything we're talking about here, you can find a quote. The first report sounded like one is lazy, the other is stupid, and I have to work alone. That is how it sounds to someone who listens attentively. But we actually make the same mistakes. Just as the second report said that in 2008 I said that, according to memory, there was a situation where one was expected, but another was received. This isn't some government mistake. It could happen. The one who doesn't work isn't wrong. And that's what happens, sometimes. Much has been said about this, too, here today, with questions about whether all the tax reforms that have been carried out over the last two years are so necessary, whether all this should be done, etc. Look, ladies and gentlemen, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, of course I appreciate and look at the most of these legislative acts... Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U83	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U84	...what we do. There's a strange picture. If you take the period from 1 October 2008 to 10 October 2018, it turns out that in that period we have adopted 110 laws that change taxation in our country. I mean, taxes, levies, excise duties, etc. Of these 82 legislative amendments, 82 apply to the time when the Reform Party was the head of the Government of the Republic, and 28 have been adopted in the last two years. In fact, I have to say right away that there are, in recent times, particularly many of the drafts resulting from European law, the directives with which we have to coordinate our laws, by the way, making our legal space more difficult. So we cannot talk about the fact that there has been some kind of deadlock because there has been too much legislative work. If you call normal the previous eight years, it turns out that the average distribution is the same. It's just that the world's views are different and, depending on who the people trust in power, we do them. Speaking on behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to say that for us, the most important thing about the tax system is that it is suitable for the employer and that it would have the comfort of working in Estonia, that it would create new jobs, that it would create added value. And it has to be equal, it has to be useful for the employee. We must reduce this economic divide in society, which is emerging between different social groups. That is the purpose of the tax system. Let's get on with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U85	As I said before, anyone who wishes to speak gets the floor. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Nestor takes the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U86	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to congratulate the Reform Party Group on raising this issue. This is a very rare case of how much important a national issue gets more attention. To be honest, I do not remember anyone making a live stream broadcast on the issue raised by the group from here, so I would also like to thank the Postimees and wish them that, in future, not only those initiated by the committees, but also those initiated by the groups, they will receive more public attention. This will certainly benefit both the voters and us here. But tax policy... Before I get to it, I'm gonna ask for more time. I can't talk in five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U87	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U88	To be honest with you, ladies and gentlemen, over-politicisation in tax policy and black and white painting by simplifying messages for reputational purposes is what bothers me most. It's just a mess and trouble. The most typical example of far-reaching history is the change that was made in Estonia 18 years ago in corporate tax. The proposers announced that companies no longer pay income tax in Estonia. The opponents of this proposal then said that companies would no longer pay income tax. A great myth was made of it, but in fact, only the corporate tax regime was changed. To be honest, these myths, unfortunately, live very long. Later, a study initiated by one of the finance ministers showed that the initial expectations of the change in corporate tax have not been fulfilled in terms of investment. But Estonia certainly won on two things here. One has already been said here by Toomas Luman, namely, this time it became easier and the need to hide these revenues disappeared. But less has been said about the second fact. In my opinion, this procedure also made it easier for economic operators to cope with the economic downturn. It is also a value in itself that should not be underestimated. Only later have we begun to refine this law. Unfortunately, we did not immediately arrive at the fact that the company's investment is also an investment in its employees. Today we have taken steps here on a number of occasions, really very painfully, could be faster, but I urge you to continue in this direction. Another example is the later history. The need to raise the tax-free rate in a situation where the so-called 'political tree horses' come forward, in substance and in a very reasonable manner, with beautiful content. It might have been more appropriate to do so in a way that would change the level of income tax or make a higher rate for some higher level of income. Since it couldn't be done, it turned out the way it is now. It has to be said here that there are also those who are certainly evil because of this, and that is not good. The second myth that I would fight in taxation is that taxes should be simple. I watched this debate with interest. No one has yet taken the sacred word 'car' for an Estonian. I'll take it. We use a very simple way of taxing cars. We only tax the use of a car, and it's called fuel excise. All other countries are taxing other ways, both car purchases and car ownership. But since we have taken a simple way, it is no wonder that our fuel prices are higher than in the neighbouring country. They must be higher because they pay other taxes for cars. And in sum, maybe this car won't be cheaper for the Latvian than it is for the Estonian. In the same category, such prohibited topics include taxes on the taxation of property. And here I want to congratulate Olari Taali, who has been speaking on this subject for years and I think very rightly. In fact, everything is very simple: in the 1990s it was not possible to tax property, for the simple reason that we had many people who became the owner of the property and who had the difficulty of holding up their property. That would clearly have been unfair. Can't we now, in 2018, assume that this time has come to an end? Why am I talking about this? I speak for this simple reason. You see, the state has a greater responsibility to the owner than to other people. The State must also take steps to preserve the owner's assets in order to keep them. If no one has a house, it can't burn either, but if someone's house is on fire, the fire department has to get there. This is such a very simple example of black and white. And the fact that we have not reached the point of taxing property in any way is more evidence that we have not risked doing so because, again, political horses will probably come along in some way. Interestingly, this time the issue of social tax has arisen. Thank you very much to Dima Egorov for this presentation. In Estonia, labour taxes are not high compared to other Europe, as you can see from this table. All those who claim otherwise lie when they talk about comparison with Europe. In Europe, labour taxes are high compared to the rest of the world. Because there is no social security in the rest of the world. It doesn't come, they don't need it, they don't know it, they never do. I really liked the one time meeting with people who fought social tax here. I mean, to be honest, they don't know what social security is. I was wrong, you know very well. But their belief that Europe, including Estonia, is going to fight Asia and Africa, who are able to pay lower wages, is first faceless and second, absurd. It's never gonna work out. But I want to finish with a very simple sentence. Our finances are assessed by agencies, the rating agency Fitch gave one rating, which was very positive, the rating agency Sõerd gives a completely different rating. There is nothing to do, but in fact, in European terms, Estonian finances are okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U89	Enn Meri on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U90	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been in the Riigikogu for six months now, and I am only slowly beginning to understand what is going on in this house and why. But I have other experiences that could be useful. For many years, I have been engaged in entrepreneurship both in Estonia and abroad, so I know this world and the problems associated with entrepreneurship. I would like to say that our tax system is simple and relatively understandable. Not as Mr Nestor or Mr Egorov said, many entrepreneurs, and I too, find that our biggest problem is that our labour taxes are too high, they should be reduced. And that is not just what I think, but what the OECD has said a few years ago. Looking at a possible solution, each percentage of the reduction in labour taxes reduces the revenue of the state by about EUR 100 million. Since I and most of my colleagues believe that the state budget should be balanced, these missing millions should be found elsewhere. The view of the Free Party is that we should reduce labour taxes from 33% to 30%. In the view of the Free Party, the absence of these 300 million should be found through the taxation of the company's equity capital. The equity capital of companies operating in Estonia is around 40 billion and if, for example, a 0.75% equity tax were applied, it would be missing 300 million beautifully. This would be a shift from company labour costs to capital costs. So far, only labour has been taxed, and it is quite high, but there is no equity tax at all. The cost of working hours will be reduced by reducing labour taxes, which means that more people can be employed. This would make our economy grow and win those companies that have a lot of employees. As an alternative, we have considered a commercial property tax, but it is much more difficult to apply than an equity tax, as there is no separate commercial real estate register in Estonia, where there is also a market price for real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U91	On behalf of the Sven Sester Fatherland Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I put a bunch of keywords here, I'd like to talk about everything. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, especially the second and third representatives of employers and the minister. Perhaps in the form of Jürgen Ligi, the initiator of the subject or debate, we seemed to be on some sort of Naksitrall show, where Muhv himself asks and answers, i.e. his people, his group asked and came up with long answers. In total, I don't want to be unfair, maybe four questions within 20 minutes were answered. But that's why, at least we have a debate here. After the second and third performers, it was possible to start developing the topics further. I fully agree, and I believe that there are hardly any other political parties here who are not signing that the tax system should be comprehensible, transparent and predictable. I think these are keywords that should go through all party programmes, whether the party is left or right. Definitely by looking at my party, I can put my hand on it right now. I think that, although the infamous sentence says that there are few entrepreneurs, only 4 to 5%, and they are relatively eloquent among their electorate, we should not forget that they probably bring us 80 to 90% of the tax revenue. The state budget does not mean that money comes from the state budget, money still comes from entrepreneurs. The more advantageous and easier it is to set up businesses here, the more likely it is that businesses will come here, both domestic and potential foreign investments. Now the question is what we do to create this environment here. We are currently in the electoral campaign cycle, and the various political parties will certainly come up with their proposals on how to increase competitiveness in Estonia by those who have this goal put on more paper. From the perspective of my party, I am saying that to some position that has passed through here and which we see in the party programme of some parties, perhaps more in the party programme of left-wing parties, we will certainly not sign. One issue is certainly the corporate tax system, which has really worked for 18 years, and in which we can say that profits are taxed not at the time of its creation, but at the time of its payment. In Estonia, as Eiki Nestor has already said, the company's income tax exists. It's just that he's paid out when profits are taken out, not when profits are made. It has really given companies the opportunity to accumulate money, to increase its capacity to grow it in their investment decisions. So, on the basis of the Fatherland, I can certainly say: no certainty about possible changes to the corporate tax system. Now property taxes, to which the previous speaker from the Free Party has just paid attention. I think it is too early today to talk about property taxes. We have only been independent once again for 27 years. It's too short a period, we haven't actually had time to raise capital over this period to the extent that we're going to tax property. As before, I will say here that our party will certainly not be supported in discussing possible property taxes. As Eiki Nestor stated, in fact, these same cars have already been taxed through excise policy. We certainly do not support car tax as a possible new tax now. Moreover, I think it would make sense now for all parties to say clearly and unambiguously: there should be a tax peace in the coming years. I don't think any new taxes should be brought to the table. I do not think that any increase in the existing tax rate should be discussed. Now, to think from here on, if all hands sign it, there's always an old, well-known question about how politicians find cover for all the good things they want to do. I think that many parties here certainly need to look in the mirror about their tax promises, because in some cases there are billions. If it is still to be covered by better economic growth, possible wage increases, better income and social tax receipts or the rise in turnover and better VAT receipts, then we cannot talk about the orders of magnitude in the future possible investments and benefits that the parties want to make. When I look at my party, I will certainly say that we are going to have a clear position: a tax truce. We are not prepared to introduce any new taxes or to raise any existing tax rates. A few words have also been said here today about increasing competitiveness, which is inevitably also related to taxes. One example is the distinctions. We've had a dogma for a long, ten years, and an idea that there shouldn't be any distinction. The world is not so black and white. I remember that the special health benefit of EUR 400 for contractors has been in our party's programme from elections to elections, but we have never been able to push this coalition agreement through the negotiations. Well, there was nothing to do, in the sense that, for some reason, the red lines would meet. Now that dogmatics has changed. Just as the employer's representative, the head of the Chamber of Commerce, said, the distinction must be looked at with common sense and see if he increases our competitiveness or not. You don't have to think that all the distinctions are about the devil, but you certainly shouldn't have to have all the differences. We need to look at the differences one by one. Of the topics that have now been discussed and the changes that the government has already introduced into the law, one is indeed this special advantage, the opportunity given to the employer to compensate workers for their health costs. But I also recall from the recent past that during the last six months, for example, companies are able to cover transport costs for their employees who are in Estonia, but who live elsewhere and come to work from A to B, without paying special preferential tax. These are issues that have long been spoken by employers and which have now been put into practice. Looking to the future now, indeed, bringing ships under the flag of Estonia, for example, requires distinctions. This requires differences in a number of tax systems: income tax, social tax, unemployment insurance tax. I don't think we should be afraid of these tax differences. So, to sum up, thank you for being able to hold such a debate today, at least with the second and third rapporteurs, it was constructive. We will see what the near future will bring us during the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U93	I expect Maris Lauri to participate in the negotiations on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U94	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Taxes should not be a key issue for the economy. In the case of Estonia, they should be innovation, export or competitiveness, for example. Perhaps when we look at the innovation side, it is how to support investments, how to gain more knowledge and how to apply them, so that we have educated people, how to increase the productivity of our economy, how to add value, and how to increase exports in order to benefit more from it. We need to understand that our home market is small and that is why we need to look at our competitiveness. If we are more competitive, our economy will grow better, our people will have jobs, incomes and also prosperity. But now we are already in a pretty good position where, when speaking to businesses, taxes are the first thing and, in the case of ordinary people, taxes are also important. Because taxes are part of the hygiene of companies, and if there's anything shaky about hygiene, the whole picture could get bad. We can leave our teeth unwashed, and maybe at first it feels okay, but in the end it's starting to feel a little bad, the teeth are starting to fall apart, but those who are close are even disgusting, and in the end they don't want to communicate with us anymore. That's why we have to talk about hygiene. If the room's messed up, it's gonna have to be fixed. It's not like if we come in here and we make sure everything's not okay in the room, a little faded is this picture, and maybe there's a dust roll under the couch, we'll turn the couch around, we'll pull down the curtains and start scrambling some paint on the wall. I think that is why we cannot now talk about some kind of tax truce in a situation where this room has been so splattered and confused. We need to fix it first, at least on a minimum scale, and then start repairing the room and making it better. It is precisely in the long term that we should certainly look at things and understand what needs to be done better. The world has changed and will change. There's a lot of talk about changing work patterns. I think that every Minister of Finance, every member of the government, as well as every person who has followed business science and tax payments, knows the word 'OÜ-Ü-tamine', which in itself hurts OÜs, private limited companies. But more and more people are taking different forms of work, contract forms. It cannot be said that they will then choose a more favourable option to pay their taxes. How should we collect taxes so that they are fair and we get sufficient revenues for the state? Above all, I am thinking of a social area where, as a result of population ageing, this pressure to increase costs is likely to be significant. If people have very different forms of work, the taxation of which is uneven, we should get to the point that this base is uniform, wide enough and fair enough. What we see is that people have to learn all the time. It means that when you work, interruptions come in... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U95	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U96	We want to maintain solidarity because Europe is obviously the corner of the world to which an American approach can no longer be introduced, that everyone buys their own insurance. We need to look aging more seriously in the eye, even on how long we work and how we work. We should not discourage people who really want to work, perhaps not full-time, from going away with no methods, including tax methods. But now there are people who say that, but for what, I'm being taken for more work. For let us be honest, for many, pension is the income they have ever earned and have already been paid for. People don't see it as a running income. Finally, we must also certainly look at what we are spending these collected tax revenues on, what social benefits we are offering ourselves. It has been said here today about corporate tax that this exemption from income tax on investments did not, as if, lead to investments. Maybe he didn't bring it right away. But I have spoken to a lot of entrepreneurs and I dare to make a very clear distinction: for those companies who grow, want to grow and who are at the beginning of their tea, such a tax system is very useful, it makes them grow. That is why we have actually been very successful in getting out of the economic crisis 2008-2009. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: Working at the bank at the time, I saw a very clear distinction between what was in Estonia and what was in Latvia. In Latvia, there were companies that did not make profits for decades, profit was earned in Estonia and came out of it because it gives the opportunity to grow. We can talk about property taxes, under which land tax is once, but let's be honest, that's not okay. How do we go to the next level if we cannot cope with the simplest property tax, if the price of land tax is frankly, I can no longer remember which year came from and take into account the real value of the land at all? And a little question about the differences. The distinctions are not Satan in themselves, and they must really be used in cases where other possibilities are not useful. But let's be honest, from time to time, and more recently, especially, the ideas of differences have come out, which stink because they're tilted. But to sum up, let's clean up the room and start talking about how our tax system should look in the distant future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U97	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U98	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, and our performer today! Thank you, too, for the very meaningful presentations that were here! Since there has always been talk in the pre-election period and the Reform Party has spoken a great deal about taxes as well as about today's debate, a little reminder. The Reform Party has always proposed tax reductions before the elections; this has been the way we remember for years, the posters were always 'More money in the hands of people! ', 'Free Fridays! ' ', 'More red strawberries! ', et cetera. Well, that's all we remember. The strawberries were even distributed right here in the hall. However, the result has still been that the country has been cut to a very thin level, reduced to all kinds of services and increased indirect taxes. For example, access to medical care and queues, which are currently such an exciting and popular theme, have been brought to the level that it is impossible to reverse this policy that has been pursued for almost 17 years and it is not possible to come out of this August at all. For all these years, the prescribers have only been drawn into a coma and coma and have raised people's own holdings. All former health ministers have come from the Reform Party. Let us recall the time of the economic crisis, which then, as you remember, began to be called a affectionately depressing one. The Prime Minister then predicted that we would have a very soft landing. What came is that we were one of the biggest fallers in the world. And then, of course, there were huge cuts, a lot of cuts. I understand it was necessary to do so, but these cuts were still such that the country was paralyzed. Just a few to remember. When we were talking about health care here, I would remind you of how the VAT on medicines and technical equipment was raised, VAT on books and periodicals, VAT on funeral services, VAT on concerts and performances. For example, all dental benefits were abolished and bed-day fees were raised, as well as general VAT, etc. I have 26 other categories here. I mean, we all understand that it was difficult times, but after the crisis ended, they promised to reverse these cuts. Actually, it wasn't. There were also cuts that were not needed, and they were perpetuated. They've been in effect so far. We've started turning some things back. And by the way, I'm telling you this, I've been here for many years, and I know that it's precisely the Reform Party that has raised excise duty on heating, fuel, natural gas, electricity, alcohol. Really, countless times. When we ask or we ask why you raise excise duties on electricity and petrol, for example, which affect all prices and trigger price rally, they asked why we did not like to increase excise duties on alcohol. I mean, it's turned around. It's bad for your health. It was that alcohol excise may have been increased, but no one else could. Now raising alcohol excise is like a big sin. So in this case, look in the mirror. And when we talk about how people go to Latvia to buy alcohol, the more you talk, the more they go, and those who have never gone will go to see for interest. As regards the fact that tax changes should be announced in advance for a very long time, decisions were taken in summer 2009, on Midsummer Day, which raised taxes from July. So let's set a different example. If the President of the Reform Party, Kaja Kallas, is talking about the fact that social tax should be abolished, namely 'lost', he has said, we have not heard what kind of scheme he is offering to replace, we have not heard about the links with other taxes that are being replaced. We have clearly understood that the Reform Party wants to switch to private health insurance. I remember Siim Kallas talking about this in his day. The honourable colleague, Mr Ligi, did not answer that question either. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U99	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U100	What does economist Viktor Trasberg say about this? 'Abandoning social tax would mean a switch to private medicine and pension insurance, i.e. financing of insurance-based social services. For example, in the United States and only in Europe in Switzerland there is private health insurance, under which people make voluntary contributions. What they pay for, they have the right to demand. In Switzerland, private health insurance costs an average of EUR 500 per person, and a family with two children therefore pays EUR 2000 for health insurance. We don't have people making that many trees. Thus, this voluntary contribution-based health care system is not reasonable in our circumstances, says Trasberg. I mean, it is more expensive than tax and solidarity-based health care. And, of course, what about our pension system, our three-pillar? To date, we have read a lot in the paper that the three pillars have exhausted themselves. The World Bank once advised us to do this to developing and post-communist countries. By the way, it is interesting that when it came into force in Estonia in 2002, the World Bank itself rejected this system, but we still have it and we are only making cosmetic improvements there. If we now want to transfer social tax in any way to other consumption taxes, we know that they are regressive and the lower your salary, the more you pay your salary as a ratio. And I recall again Eiki Nestor's famous sentence: 'In order for the wealthy to receive more money from the state, indirect taxes will be raised, which people with low income pay off. ' When it comes to the ceiling of social tax or the distribution of tax between the employer and the employee, we can only do so in the context of progressive, progressive income tax, and no other way. All normal countries have progressive income tax. Where there isn't, I'll remind you again. Mr Ligi here said that he does not remember, I think, in Romania, Mongolia, Albania, Russia, Hong Kong and some other countries. We also had 13 stages in the first Republic of Estonia and were also at the beginning of the Republic of Estonia during the Savisaar period. It is now from Finland, Germany and France to America. In many countries there is also progressive local income tax. So progressive income tax makes our country more coherent and enhances the sense of social justice, which is actually a common goal for all of us. To conclude today's debate, I say that really, instead of Excel's tables, we need to listen much more to entrepreneurs and researchers. Let us hope that we can agree on these matters someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U101	Javier in clothing, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U102	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will start right where my colleague Marika Tuus ended up. Perhaps I really hope that some of the coalition members in the Chamber, who were relatively few during this debate, will really listen to what business representatives had to say and will also read what is stated in the employer's manifesto. There's a lot to follow. But my speech or speech is about the impact of tax losses on the Estonian economic environment. It is recalled that the Estonian tax system has been rated the best in the world among OECD countries for several years in a row. And in 2016, when an excuse was needed to overthrow the government, it was sought on the boards of state companies, and finally it was found in economic stagnation, which, as we know afterwards, was not stagnation but quite rapid economic growth. Now, in order to get this stagnation going, the ingenious plan was to create a stagnation engine that sounds as linguisticly as absurd as the essence. One of its content must have been that everything that can be done differently in tax policy must be done differently, despite the fact that entrepreneurs have never asked to turn the tax system upside down and despite the fact that the Estonian people have never given the mandate. The stasis engine had to be activated by the coalition at the time, and of course it was. All governments, regardless of the main part of their worldview, whether on the right or on the left, are always expected to have a clear and predictable policy. When we think of previous governments, many of them lowered their income tax, lowered their social security contributions, also reduced their unemployment contributions. During the previous government, taxation of options was made more favourable, and the fight against tax fraud was actively pursued. If you put all these things in one picture, you will draw a very clear pattern: making work in Estonia less taxed, encouraging higher pay, encouraging work. This worldview can be argued against or not, but at least it was predictable, clear and understandable. Now this so-called vigorous change, which was launched at the end of 2016, consisted in the creation of six new taxes, to which I would stress, no one has received a mandate from the majority of the Estonian people. No sweet tax, no mortgage income tax, no increase in packaging excise duty, no car tax, none of which have in fact received a mandate from voters. It was not only the warnings of entrepreneurs and the opposition that were being taken in such a hurry that they ignored, but actually passed the law, as Toomas Luman hinted in a very delicate way today. You can assess for yourself whether it was adequate or not. The biggest negative impact is, of course, that there has been a change in the income tax system, which has been very unique and successful in Estonia and has encouraged rapid increases in wages and living standards. I would point out that there has been no rapid increase in wages and incomes in any of our countries, and I would argue that the Estonian income tax system has a significant role to play in this. This income tax system was turned upside down, and again it had not even been asked for a mandate. The question is, who promised or why did you do it? Where did you get the audacity to do that? I understand very well that the consequences are actually easy to come. Not only are the people of Estonia completely dissatisfied with these tax changes, but the facts actually speak for themselves. Just as the main speakers said today, I am also concerned that in one year, the share of payments of envelope wages in Estonia has increased from 8% to 13%, or more than one-and-a-half times. If we can't read the message out of this trend, we're gonna have to get ourselves some stronger glasses. There have always been two objectives in the state budget. One is, of course, to earn revenue in the state budget, but the other, in my view, even more important, is to limit the consumption of harmful goods. And I refuse to go along with the fact that one increase in excise duty is automatically a bad thing. I would argue that, if, during previous governments, there have been very many increases in excise duty of 5% or 10% per year on average, these have been very correct and justified increases in the lion's share. However, if again, the excise duty of one particular type of alcohol was doubled in 14 months, then, again, it does not have to be a very strong mathematician to understand if you double the excise duty on one commodity, then people will start looking for alternatives. And not only did people buy another kind of alcohol, but they found a place where excise duties are lower. It is no wonder that, in the two years that the Jüri Ratas government has been in office, border trade has undoubtedly existed with all kinds of excise rates more than ten times in two years. If we can't read the signs out of it, we're gonna have to recommend our own stronger glasses. I think that now, six months before the elections, it is high time for the political parties in the government to admit that something went wrong, too, and to think very carefully about what mandate they are going to ask the voters. Such very hasty tax changes have caused a great deal of harm, both knowingly and in some places, unwittingly. I do not believe that the coalition wanted to increase the tax burden on working pensioners or tenfold border trade in a few years. So admitting a mistake is definitely not a sign of weakness. I think that both the Centre Party, the Social Democrats and the IRL have reason to look in the mirror and think about what happened then, that this absurd word structure has become or is becoming the brake of Estonia's development. I'll stop referring to the employers' manifesto. Employers made it clear that taxes should first be turned back to 2016 or before the Ratas government and then calmly consider whether the Estonian tax system needs major shocks at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U103	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This debate was set up for a reason, just as Dmitri Egorov's presentation of the tax system did, so it should not be a major problem for our economy. But the process has gone the way that the problem is made and turned into chaos before each of the selections is said fools, promises are made, or damage is made, some things are unfortunately going through. And this time there was also a disaster between the two elections, such a cluster kicking into the Chamber of the Riigikogu and such deadlines, such procedures have never been carried out, even during the crisis. Although I can repeat that, I am very pleased that we were able to make rapid decisions during the crisis. But then everything was coordinated, and analyses and expertise were used, and this time it wasn't done. Marika Tuusi would just say that she could listen to what others are saying, not just come and beat the crap out of her, then she will also understand what today's debate was about. It's particularly bad when you come up with quotes for others and then you put them in rows here. I suggest he get to know more about the analysis of the distribution of tax exemptions. To him, this distribution economy is very important; with these exceptions it wants to support the wealthiest, because there will be tax exemption money. But in general, everyone here who introduced the words that tax exemptions are Satan or not spoke of foolishness, because such a statement has not sounded here today or anywhere in the media. It was a fiction, it wouldn't have been nice for anyone to paint on the wall to have something to attack. However, it is worthwhile for both the social and the right to examine what the tax effects are, to look at the fact that it has been the most common technique in crisis management and most desirable, apart from better tax collection, to eliminate these distortions, where the tax is not collected unfairly, and yet to argue if some tax exemption seems good, not just to talk about being a devil. Nobody ever said that. The Riigikogu, not the devil, will be tax and tax exemption. Of course, whoever really understood what we were talking about was Sven Sester, and he got his hat on fire with the explosion. Well, if you still come out of all kinds of normal rules and put it on the counter at once for excise duty and sugar excise duty and car tax, then there's another car tax and pawn tax, and then tax cuts, excise increases, but you've brought back the previous excise increases, which were many times smaller, so what are you doing here, you're gonna do some bullshit and try to cool your head off. Sven Sester shouldn't have any faction, not even the Centre Party, let the central party talk about taxes, he should go to the door. It's a complete shame that he's done. At the moment, the fight is only about whether Sester did something similar in the previous government or only in this government. So the fire was justified. Also, speaking of exceptions, this bunch was taped to this damn health promotion. Well, may some argument be made where this health improved when paying off gyms and marathon tickets, but in no way has their access to sports, who are in fact economically weak, who do not have a wealthy employer and who simply want to live athleticly, to walk, to walk, to go mushroom for me. It's definitely healthier than some gym. But the commercial sports offer... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U105	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U106	... under health promotion, it's cynical. Sport on commercial grounds has only a very delicate point of contact with health. There are cheaper and healthier alternatives. More importantly, socially, there is a weak company other than the one who gets the gym tickets now at a more favourable rate. Of course, it will be used as a wage supplement, but hardly anyone will get better because of it, in any case, those who have a real problem with access will not be better. But it's just one of the examples. Speaking of tax exemptions even further, the economy should be based on inherent assumptions, not artificially, in the context of limited resources. If we establish a tax exemption, whether or not in shipping, there will be an even stronger tax exemption, in any case a cheaper offer. There is no point in trying to do something by exception when we have a shortage of labour and we have advantages elsewhere. But it's a long story. What else could be said about taxes is that excise duties are very good taxes. There's no point in saying that someone else did, Sester in the previous government, and so on. Maybe 2015 went too far, but in general, 5% and 10% of the goods have been raised, because it is the absolute value, not the percentage, it has to be correlated with prices and incomes in some way. In this sense, all countries occasionally adjust excise duties and all governments do so. But 45% and 70% excise increases, well, that's stupid. It's really stupid, and turning it back is extremely difficult. Sven Sester could have talked about it. The same way he could have protected here how it was right to come in with this bunch of taxes, like he did here, and talk all these things over. Let's not start talking about anything else. The future of the tax system, indeed, for demographic reasons, but also because of the possibilities to use other forms of work, I do not think that it is now massive, but still, it is repressive, and we also need to use business income to carry the burden of labour tax elsewhere. This is one of the topics of the debate on the future. And, of course, I would have liked to hear more about this declaration-free or simpler e-tax management, which would help to better collect taxes and make it easier to pay. But then we'll talk about it another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U107	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U108	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly not enough to develop a tax system for the development of a country's economy. Economic development requires, apart from the existence of a good tax system, a skilled workforce, capital is available, transport connections are available and energy prices are competitive. But the tax system is important, it is central, and there is certainly reason to talk about it. Estonia has historically been innovative in designing its tax system. The proportional income tax was introduced in 1994. With the tax reform at the time, Estonia received all the new tax laws, almost nothing was taken over from the old system, and proportional income tax has worked successfully until 1 January, including when it was replaced by a exponentially declining tax system. If we recall, Estonia introduced e-Tax Board, pre-filled tax returns and electronic declaration as the first country in the world. If we had not had a simple proportionate income tax system, we certainly would not have done so in 2000. We would definitely have introduced the e-Tax Board, but years later. So, where are we today? The new, exponentially declining income tax system has now been in place for eight months and there have been quite a lot of confusion and unpleasant surprises during this period. We recall that at the beginning of the year an unpleasant surprise came for working pensioners who were then hit by a tax axe and higher taxation. Then, in April, the tax office began to send notifications that people have taken more account of the tax-free minimum than they should. Those to whom notifications were sent were 36000 taxpayers. Today we read in the media that the IRS has sent messages again, this time to 57,000 people. But what these people have to do about this communication is also a question. What are they supposed to do? They have therefore misestimated their revenues. In fact, the new exponentially decreasing tax-free minimum system requires people to be able to predict what their annual income will be, but in practice it is quite difficult because, apart from remuneration, people can also receive irregular incomes and incomes other than wages. I would also like to talk about the fact that there is one question that I missed here for Dmitri Egorov, because the line just didn't get to me. When this new gradual decline in the tax-free minimum regime came into force, the Prime Minister repeatedly came here before the Riigikogu and also in several media that 86% of all employees will benefit from the new tax system. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U109	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U110	And then this thing was a little adjusted, and the Prime Minister said that 80% of all people will win the new income tax system. Well, I asked the Ministry of Finance to show me the analyses that turn out to be 80% of all people winning the new tax system. The Ministry of Finance has told me that this analysis is not available, it is still being prepared, but as soon as we are done, so we will show you, and we will do it by the time the economic forecast is presented. However, in September, when the economic forecast appeared, there was no analysis of the new income tax system. Well, then I went ahead and started looking into it on my own. At the end of August, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board published the data on the aggregate of individual income tax returns of the previous year. By studying this, it turned out that the winners are by no means 80%, it is barely 70%. But it's old data, right now we have to look at the income of people this year. I don't think the number of winners is up to 60% now. So all this new tax system has been decorated with lies. But, well, hopefully, this complex system of 6,000 steps, where people have to work hard to forecast their revenues and cannot do it very well, will succeed. It is also hoped that the coalition parties who made this up are not even satisfied with their own creation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U111	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Yes, I'm not here in finance like colleagues Aivar Sõerd and many others, but I'm telling you about life itself. I really enjoyed Dmitri Egorov's presentation. Yes, indeed, he said that the voter is in Estonia, but many decisions are made in Brussels and we do not know how much we can influence them. It's very important. Can we do it? Or, secondly, the local tax thing is lout and land tax rates should somehow be brought together. I agree. But above all, I would like to talk about what I have seen being a member of the government coalition, what is happening in the south. Recently, I heard Spolitis, a former member of the Latvian Parliament, on the show of my colleague Hanso. He said the North of Latvia has blossomed. And it really is. However, when my colleague Hanso asked why this is the case, whether there could have been something to do and how to coordinate these things, a colleague of the Latvian Parliament said that, look, there is a collection like the Baltic Assembly. However, the Estonian delegation has been there now has my expression without a wheel, has not taken an interest. So on this point, a little ploy here that isn't the only one that can be pointed at by Jevgeni Ossinovski and Sven Sester. But what really happened? Yes, North Latvia is booming, and what we might be against if our neighbours are doing well. But over the years I was in the coalition, I saw what was happening. At first the buses went from Järva-Jaani to the Latvian border, and later everything started going. Many of my friends and acquaintances, the owners of small stores, told me how everything was drying up. The supply of alcohol in the homes of people in South Estonia grew. I've got so big I can't actually drink everything and there's no need, but if you're going, of course you're taking it with me. Finally, at the beginning of 2016, when the first store opened its doors on the Latvian border, the increase has been massive ever since. While in 2015 less than a percentage of alcohol purchases took place in border trade, it is currently 25%. As Mr Rõivas said here, border trade has grown more than ten times in the last two years, actually even more. When I spoke to the Minister of Finance back then, I said, "Hey, Sven, it ends sadly, I see what's going on." I went to so-called rehearsal shopping and watched how life goes in Latvia, especially in the Valka Alcopods. I saw what was going on in there. Like a song party, kids, rags, everybody pulls. And quietly this front shifted towards Tallinn. But in Tallinn, my ladies and gentlemen, the coalitioners said that everything was under control. I remember very well how a good colleague explained to me that it's like a tip, a little bit disappears. Take it easy, Peter! And I believed it, but then I came back again and again as a member of the government coalition group and said that the boys, it ends sadly, the wagon rolls into a ditch. It was always the same as the captain of the Titanic. Next waltz, please! Although iceberg approached. That was the case until the new minister, Toomas Tõniste, arrived, and, oh, a miracle, began to be corrected. Why am I saying all this? When I heard Dmitri Egorov's performance, he's the man who's really the head of the department of finance's so-called brains in the field. You would think that, therefore, Dima Egorov was responsible for this because he gave the wrong advice to the government, to the Minister for Finance at the time, and so on. But...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U113	Thank you, Peter Ernits! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U114	So, in fact, Egorov said that the risks were so high. But as I understand it, it wasn't taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U115	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U116	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2018 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Government waitress, finance minister Toomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the State Budget Act of 2018. The fiscal policy of the Estonian Government is responsible, we have avoided making positive additional budgets. You will be faced with proposals for amending the budget, according to which the total amount of expenditure and revenue will not change. With this amendment, we want to specify the costs of the current year for ministries and other institutions. It is customary for the Riigikogu to specify the state budget for the current year in the autumn, as since the end of last year, when the budget was approved, life has led to clarifications in the timetable for the implementation of the activities and new and important activities have been added. In proposing changes to the budget, we have been guided by the desire to make optimal and targeted use of public money, reprioritising activities where necessary. In order to achieve the objectives set, it is right to change the state budget. The changes before you are intended to use the money released as a result of the changes in estimated costs to carry out other necessary activities. The costs of the state as a whole do not increase, but with the money released we can solve certain problems. In total, the budget will be revised to 216 million, representing around 2% of the budget volume. Resources will be released in the following locations: From Estonia's own contribution to projects with euro money, 58 million euros will be released from specifying the timetable for activities. 4.1 million euros will be released from the budget for the acquisition of nature conservation land from the Ministry of the Environment. From the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Rail Baltic Estonia OÜ will release 3.3 million euros from the refund of VAT and 1.7 million euros from the specification of the schedule of activities of the ICT development programme of EAS. In the special-purpose reserve of the Ministry of Finance, 21 million euros will be released from the specification of the schedule of operations. In the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs, EUR 2.7 million will be released from the budget of the Fund. Our main proposals for modulation are as follows: In the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we wish to direct 15 million euros to AS Eesti Raudtee to comply with the amendments resulting from the European Union directives and 17 million euros to road construction. We allocate 19 million euros to the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research for the acquisition of private schools, the NGO Library Network Consortium and library journals and contractual obligations. The Ministry of Rural Affairs plans to channel EUR 1.6 million into laboratory equipment. The ICT resources of the Ministry of Justice will be 0.5 million euros and the laboratory equipment 0.6 million euros. In the Ministry of Culture's budget, we will devote 2.8 million euros to early termination of loan contracts. The budget of the Ministry of Finance includes 7.9 million Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and Estonian Apostolic Orthodox Church to improve, maintain and restore sacral buildings and facilities, Sunday schools, etc. We will allocate an additional EUR 25 million to the Ministry of the Interior for equipment and technology. In addition, the proposals include changes between activities within the scope of government, of which the following are larger: From the expected surplus of the membership fees of the Ministry of Defence and the specification of the timetable for investments, we want to target EUR 2.9 million in ad hoc support for the Defence Union. 2.2 million euros from the VAT refund of Rail Baltic Estonia OÜ, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, will be allocated to the Maritime Administration, Technical Surveillance Authority and Consumer Protection Board for investments and acquisition. The forecast balance of labour and management costs of the Ministry of Finance, amounting to EUR 2.4 million, will be allocated to IT investments by the Tax and Customs Board and Statistics Estonia. Honourable Riigikogu! Looking at the wider implementation of the state budget for 2018, I can say that the revenue from the state budget as a whole will be collected in the planned amount and that we will also do as the budget requires. In eight months, we have received €6.42 billion, or 62% of what was planned for the year. Costs and investments have been made at the same time for €6.38 billion. That's 59% of the year. By the end of 2018, the Ministry of Finance estimates that the general government budget will have a structural surplus of 0.1% of gross domestic product. To sum it up. As a result of the proposal before you, the government will be able to use available resources to cover other necessary costs. The total amount of State expenditure will not change. Public finances are in good order at the end of 2018. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U118	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U119	Good manager! Good waitress! Well, it's the usual thing for money to be redirected here and there. But here point 11.7 says to give 6.7 million to the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and 1.15 million to the Estonian Apostolic Orthodox Church. I ask whether this amount is now the same as the government tried to target them under the name of occupation damage, etc., and take from the so-called property reform reserve fund, but did not go through here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. So now they've found the source? Is it the same thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U120	Thank you. It's exactly the same thing. It was originally intended to be financed from the stock of property reform, but now it comes from the reserve of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U121	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U122	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Point 9.9 of the explanatory memorandum refers to the allocation of funds to local authorities for road repair. Here are Viljandi, Põltsamaa, Väike-Maarja and Haljala. Are there any other municipalities that have approached you with additional funding? As far as I am concerned, for example, Otepää Municipality has addressed the government with regard to the needs of large investments in the village of Puka. How has this procedure taken place, and why have their proposals not been taken into account in this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U123	Thank you. Yes, indeed, there are very many of these needs across Estonia, but simply in the 2018 budget, the opportunity was found for this amount and these objects. It's a proposal from MKM.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U124	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U125	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your last answer. But I'm asking for it to continue that if it's always about 200 million to be raised here and there, why does the government want to take this money from the property reform reserve fund before, among other things, to compensate for the damage to the occupation, and now it's put here. Why didn't they take it from here? That would be wise. That's the solution I like.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U126	Thank you. Smart? [[Laughing.]] At first, it seemed that it could be covered from the reserve of ownership reform, but during discussions here in the Riigikogu it was found that it would be more meaningful to really finance it from the reserve of government. There's no better answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U127	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U128	Thank you. We have heard the money being distributed here and there under the so-called 'roof money' sign, and also under the family policy, a whole million were allocated to some kind of family foundation that does not exist, but at the same time from this point 13, the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, we are reading how the money allocated to the children's and families' programme is being reduced. So, what's the game with the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U129	Thank you. The government's concern is still a birth rate. Our country's future is linked to the growth of our children, and family policy has a very important role to play here. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U130	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U131	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! There are quite a few allocations for IT developments. Yesterday, too, in the context of our consultation here, we touched on this issue and stated that we do not have a comprehensive picture of financial instruments in the field of ICT at national level. Quite a lot of money is being provided to build new systems, but resources are scarce to develop and improve existing systems. During these changes, were you able to hold a more systematic debate in the government, because this is a very important part of Estonia's image?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U132	Thank you. Indeed, this ICT in general is a priority for today's government, a concern is quite right. If we're planning new so-called developments, it was found that the foundation to build after them is rotten. And that's the problem right now, that there's too little investment in it. That is why the government has allocated additional resources. In the budget for next year and in the four-year perspective, there will also be EUR 120 million to address this problem. In addition, during the state budget strategy process, we had a separate team of professionals who then jointly assessed the needs of the various ministries of our country and ranked which of them are most important on the basis of an expert evaluation. It was not that the Minister of Finance or someone else would look at what likes, what does not like, but is now approached in a complex and just forward-looking way. This is a direction that certainly needs more attention and resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U133	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U134	Thank you. Minister, I did not understand anything about your response. I asked you why the government is reducing the funds allocated to the children's and families' programme. You said that children and families were important to you, and that's it. In short, I understand then that it is important to reduce child and family allowances and this programme. Doesn't the government seem pretty perverse to this kind of action? Should be the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U135	Thank you. There were several questions together. I'm sorry my answer wasn't clear enough! One had already touched on the 2019 budget, which included a financial allocation for the family foundation or what was its real name. When we talk about the 2018 budget, we are probably talking about transferring 2.7 million euros from the budget support activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs to the reserve of the Government of the Republic. The budget for maintenance aid was set at EUR 9 million from 2017. As this is a new initiative, it was difficult to predict it. As part of the start-up of the Maintenance Fund, knowledge of the actual costs and applications submitted during the enforcement procedure, the speed of their proceedings and the disbursement of grants arose. On the basis of these data, a potential emerging residue could be predicted in 2018, which has been lower in the start-up years. So the use has been smaller than originally thought and intended.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U136	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U137	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. We all know how harsh this summer was for farmers and how poor the harvests were. According to the work of the Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, farmers lost some 150 million dollars in production. In addition, only 20 million were allocated to farmers, even in the form of loans. Wasn't it about this redistribution that farmers needed more resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U138	Thank you. Yes, indeed, this year has been difficult for farmers. The good news is that the past years have been good, so maybe some have been able to pick up some for bad times. The State considered that the granting of a loan guarantee could help those in need. At the same time, some get a little relief from the fact that the price of the product has also increased, and they can sell it more expensively. If we look at the wider picture, there are very many sectors where no one comes to the aid, and businesses have to cope on their own. Fortunately, farmers have at least some country's support.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U139	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, You were talking about how well taxes were collected, and you took stock of it. However, excise duties are still very poor. There's been a record of excises here for the last seven months. You have eight months of data that have not yet been disclosed to the public. Excise duty is less than 50%, alcohol duty only 41%. And the estimate for the collection of alcohol duty is now From the initial EUR 341 million, we have now reached EUR 235 million. But until the end of the year, there's still some time left. Do we have to expect you to lower the amount of alcohol duty for the fifth time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U141	Thank you. Had it been decided quickly that excise duties on alcohol would now be lowered, this forecast could have been re-evaluated. This is due to the fact that in the meantime the government has taken decisions, which have partially eliminated the increase in excise duty in the coming years and reduced the increase in excise duty this year. There will also be some changes. And some of the changes are due to the fact that it did not take into account what was also pointed out that the risks associated with border trade are high. In this sense, there may be inaccuracies in the forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U142	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste! The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U143	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 25 September. The Minister of Finance, Mr Tõniste, was present, who gave an overview of the draft law, after which there was a debate. A total of nine questions were asked. In the beginning, how many articles can be modified in this way by this draft and in what amount? There's 53 million and 216 million, that's the answer. Then there was a little debate about the fact that the reduction is shown with a plus and vice versa. For about five minutes we discussed this matter of agreement, which is stated, if I am not mistaken, in the second row of the bill. At that time, private schools were asked whether support could be used for wage increases. The answer was that the grant was one-off and that there were other resources available for wage increases. We were talking about EUR 200000 left over from the Presidency going off the line. They asked if it would be possible and wise to use it to repair the Riigikogu building. The answer was that the next year would be EUR 1.3 million for such activities and EUR 0.7 million for the following year. A further question was raised later, namely where these 200000 are going and where the amounts that are not found as a source of cover anywhere. Answer: They go to the government reserve. As regards the repair of MKM and roads, it was asked whether there were only state budget resources. The answer was that there are state resources and European Union resources. Bridge financing, what time? The answer was that it would always be concluded for one year, the period would end with the end of the calendar year, but in each particular case it could be concluded for the next period. On the subject of Rail Baltic, the question was asked why a public limited liability company of MKM is not subject to VAT. Answer: The company was formed in 2017, but the Tax and Customs Board's proposal on how to take input tax came as early as 2018, i.e. when the new budget was in place, and so it was excluded. The last question was the amount of state-secret procurement. The answer was 71 million, mostly in the Ministry of Defence and the Interior. Following this debate, decisions were taken. Four decisions: to come to the Chamber by 9 October, to be co-rapporteured by the chairman of the committee, to conclude the first reading and 10 days for amendments; the deadline is 17 October at 5.15 p.m. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U144	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 695 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 17 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U145	First reading of the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws 699. Initiator waitress, finance minister Toomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The main objective of the draft submitted to you is to increase the competitiveness of gas-intensive companies in Estonia, allowing them to consume natural gas subject to preferential excise duty. The preferential excise duty rate will be EUR 11,3 per 1000 cubic metres from 2019 instead of the usual EUR 63,31. Estonian industrial companies are in a less competitive position compared to competitors in neighbouring countries, as no differences have been applied to production with high gas intensity and gas excise duties are relatively high in Estonia. This hampers the expansion of companies already operating and new direct investments in Estonia. Implementing the differences would allow energy costs to be reduced and international competitiveness to be increased. Reliefs for energy intensive production are very common in the European Union, such measures have been introduced, for example, in Belgium, Germany, Spain, Croatia, Italy, Sweden and a number of other Member States. In order to qualify for the preferential duty rate, an undertaking must meet two essential conditions. First, the company's energy management system must be proven to be effective and comply with ISO 50001. The State does not wish to grant an advantage to gas-spent companies. Secondly, the company's gas costs must represent at least 13% of the added value on the basis of either the forecast for the previous financial year or the forecast for the following 12 calendar months. The calculation of gas consumption intensity and the underlying data shall be verified by an independent sworn auditor. The draft does not allow the purchase of preferential gas by undertakings whose main activity or ancillary activity is the supply of electricity, gas, steam and conditioned air. This sector consumes most of the natural gas consumed in Estonia. Given the need to minimise the negative impact of the measure on excise duties on the preferential rate of natural gas and the fact that the district heating sector is not the export sector, this choice is justified. An undertaking which consumes gas intensively shall be entitled to an exemption from excise duty on energy for the consumption of gas at preferential excise duty rates, issued by the tax authority. This authorisation is already being applied in the administration of different excise exemptions. In particular, the directive on energy taxation in the European Union gives rise to a number of mandatory exemptions for Member States. The target group affected by the draft is the circa 10.15 in the first years. The effect of the measure on excise duty collection is EUR 1,2 million per year in 2019 and subsequent years. In addition, other amendments will be made to the draft. The commodity codes of the Combined Nomenclature for fuel shall be updated. While the current Excise Act is based on the 2002 Combined Nomenclature for energy products, the amendments will update the product codes for all energy products to the 2019 status. The amendment reduces the administrative burden for the Tax and Customs Board, as well as reduces the administrative burden for economic operators, since in several cases the taxation of excise duties was made more difficult by the 2002 nomenclature for determining the tax object. The draft specifies the grounds for exempting biomethane from excise duty. According to the current law, biogas is exempt from excise duty, the exemption is demonstrated on a commercial basis. Biomethane is also a biogas, just in a more concentrated form. In a situation where biomethane that meets the quality requirements for natural gas is introduced into the gas system and is normally consumed in conjunction with natural gas of fossil origin, the existing commodity-based taxation will become complicated. Once the draft has entered into force, the exemption from excise duty will be based on a certificate of origin for biomethane certifying the bio-origin of the gases. According to the Natural Gas Act, the certificate of origin is an electronic document issued by the system operator Elering at the request of the manufacturer and certifying that the manufacturer has produced biomethane. The amendment to the Law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law amending the Law on tobacco, which introduced an exemption from excise duty on an electro-intensive undertaking, is necessary to delete three provisions which will also enter into force on 1 January 2019. These three provisions are amended by this draft. In addition, the reference to the classification of economic activities in Estonia is replaced by a reference to the classification of economic activities and economic activities in the European Union. These are technical changes. The amendment to the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and to the Act amending other laws is necessary in order to eliminate the increase in excise duties on alcohol planned for 2019 and 2020. The objective of repealing excise increases is to reduce further pressure on the increase in border trade and the resulting risk of a fall in excise revenue. Current rates of excise duty remain in force. These are the main changes to the draft under discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U147	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U148	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, This draft provides gas excise benefits to large companies. However, as we know, when the current coalition started at the end of 2016, one of the first major changes was the increase in gas excise duty. It just hit the homeowners. If we are looking at energy prices now, it is people's home costs that are increasing even faster than other goods and services. Did you even discuss the fact that, apart from large companies, domestic customers would also be given some kind of gas excise relief, given that home expenses are growing rapidly?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U149	Thank you. When I think back a little bit, the coalition led by Ansip found at that time, especially through the words of Ansip, that gas excises must be increased and gas dependence must be reduced. So this issue has long been very strongly ahead of you, under the leadership of your party. However, in order to meet energy intensive production, to give these producers a more level playing field than neighbouring countries, there has been talk for years. And I am pleased that the current coalition has now come up with a bill that offers some relief here. Yes, indeed, domestic consumers have also increased their excise duty, but the state has to benefit from somewhere. Time will tell if there will ever be any amendments here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U150	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U151	Thank you. A good colleague, Aivar, asked my question. I was also concerned about private consumers. Your answer is that we need to reduce gas consumption, and I say that we no longer consume Russian gas as much as we do now. But that's it. I'm gonna ask you about alcohol duty now. Here is the risk of undesirable effects, and this is about the persistence of cross-border trade. Is that the aim of border trade to remain, not the fact that all the money we have talked about very much and repeatedly will still remain in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U152	Thank you. Yes, indeed, it is a problem that this volume of border trade has arisen at the southern border. There will certainly be a large share of the sharp increases in excise duty that began with the decisions of the 2014 Coalition. The current coalition has reduced excise duty so that, for example, the excise duty on strong alcohol is smaller than that imposed by the coalition led by the Reform Party. The proposal to eliminate excise increases is a view to the future, knowing that our northern neighbour will raise excise duties, the Latvians have agreed long-term excise increases, which will also provide for an increase in excise duty at the beginning of next year. Yes, it does not eliminate border trade because there are other factors than excise duties involved in buying-in prices, perhaps not so obedient tax policy on the part of consumers, and also lower living standards, all of which hold prices down. This is what we need to take into account, even if we take excise duties to Latvia's level, prices will still remain cheaper and border trade will be maintained. This was the case earlier, as early as 2016, excise duties on alcohol went to Latvia for about 8 million euros through border shops. Now it's really grown.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U153	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When discussing the impact of reducing the rate of gas excise duty, it has been said that the impact on the economy as a whole is not important, but it is acknowledged that the low rate of gas excise duty makes Estonia more attractive for additional investments. As a minister, you will certainly have information on what investments are still coming due to the proposed amendment to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U155	Thank you. It is already important for businesses to know that the government sees a problem here and takes certain steps. In particular, the reduction of electricity excise duties on e-intensive companies led to certain investment decisions. By looking at the perspective, however, the fact that companies will remain in Estonia, and many of them will invest here, is for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U156	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U157	Good waitress! Good minister! Well, we've put this excise trade in northern Latvia like a booming regime. How much more does the government contribute to the development of northern Latvia with this tax truce on alcohol duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U158	Thank you. I'm sure he won't bet any more on that. When we talk about amounts, in 2017, Latvia received 25 million excise revenue from these border shops, and this year they are planning to get it from these border shops, which are six-seven, excise revenue of about 30 million euros. We must consider that not all are Estonian purchases, that there are also a lot of Latvians shopping, that even Finns go there. The share of Estonians is not accurately measured there. In the same way as in Estonia, this is also a problem for Latvian small shops along the border. They close the doors because the prices at large border shops are cheap because they sell goods at wholesale prices there are very low buying-in prices, often a fewty percent cheaper, and the retail price is also considerably lower. This spread is, in fact, a whole, of which only one part is excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-09_U159	Aivar Sõerd can only ask his question tomorrow. The trial is closed for today. Minister, you have an excellent opportunity to visit the Riigikogu again tomorrow, as the reading of the bill continues. [[Tõniste asks the President whether new questions may be added the next day.]] No, those who have already asked, they can't ask anymore, but those who still want to ask, they can. Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
