ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U1	Ahoy! Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. The Tuesday session of the seventh working week of the VIIIth plenary session has begun. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. That's not what you want. Requesting presence check! 71 delegates will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U2	The first item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision on the establishment of the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee for the resolution of the population crisis 732. The waitress's already here. Please, Priit Sibul, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The Isamaa Group wishes to initiate a draft decision to amend the Riigikogu decision. In particular, we wish to exchange our current representative for Maire Aunaste Helir-Valdor Seeder in the Committee on Population Crisis Resolution of the Riigikogu. And that's the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U4	There are also questions for the rapporteur, at least one. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U5	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question for the waitress. It is recalled that a draft decision to set up a committee of problems was initiated here in 2015, signed by 57 members of the Riigikogu, if I remember correctly. For some reason, it was said that it was not very appropriate for the Riigikogu to form committees of concern. Jüri Ratas' government came into office and two or three problem committees were formed immediately. Is this equal treatment in this sense? Shouldn't these committees be stopped at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U6	Thank you. I cannot say whether this is equal treatment or not, but Parliament has the right to set up committees and not to form them. This depends on the will of the Members.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U7	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U8	Thank you. There's a saying in politics that if you want to put the problem on the ground, you're gonna set up a committee. This particular Commission has been working in the open for two years now. Has he met his goals?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U9	Thank you. I have been there quite briefly, but this document has also been reported in this Chamber. I think that all the committees and all the actions we are doing to address the population crisis are reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U10	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U11	Good manager! Good waitress! It is, of course, an internal matter of the party to put in the committee, but why maybe change the composition four months or even less before the end of the work? Has Mr Aunaste not managed, then, that Mr Seeder now has to go there? Or is it something to do with the rapid and unexpected exchange of the Secretary General of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U12	You, too, took quite an unexpected step here some time ago. I can't comment on what their cause is, but you did them and you decided what you were doing. The Isamaa Group also organises its own work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U13	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U14	Thank you. Firstly, of course, it seems completely pointless to have wasted the time and energy of the Riigikogu to discuss such a matter before the House. In the future, we could end this bull. However, I am asking for your opinion on the basis of this two-year experience: is the problem committee aimed at solving problems or creating problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U15	The problem committee aims to solve problems. And if you want to end this bull, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, you will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U16	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Let me remind you, just in case, that it is possible to ask both rapporteurs an oral question. Tiit Terik is to present his presentation as representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U17	Mr President, good Members of the Riigikogu, good morning! This item was on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 23 October when the change in the composition of the Committee on Trouble with the Population Crisis was discussed. Mr Pomerants gave a brief overview of the substance of the draft. The question was not raised in the Commission, and three things were decided. Firstly, to appoint a rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs here, secondly, to put the matter on the plenary agenda by 6 November, and thirdly, to propose that the draft be put to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U18	Before that, however, a question round. Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U19	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I do not want to ask whether this committee has achieved its objective in this way. I want to ask whether this committee has done anything in the last six months. As far as I know, nothing's happened there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U20	Thank you, good questioner! I could answer you for a very long time if I were a member of this committee. Unfortunately, I am not a member of this Committee on Problems, but a rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who will bring the debate on this issue before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U21	There will be negotiations, then perhaps there will also be an answer to that question. Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U22	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! I had this question rather: do you also think that there would be fewer problem committees in this form if there were no additional remuneration for their participation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U23	Thank you. It's hard to say. I think there would be fewer problem committees if there were fewer problems in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U24	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U25	Thank you. Dear colleague from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Forced to ask your answer that you are not familiar with the matter and are not a member of the Commission. But in the honourable mother party, in the Centre Party, will these views not be discussed at all, how can your representatives in this committee express themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U26	Thank you. I'm getting a little confused on the point here. It is, however, a question of changing the representative of the Party of the Fatherland in one particular committee of concern. I don't think the Centre Party has much room for guessing in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U27	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U28	Good manager! Waitress! I will follow the question of my colleague, Arto Asa, but I will ask you. We've wasted ten minutes on it now. Should such matters even be discussed in the big hall? Have you discussed this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs so that perhaps this could be done in a much simpler way without coming to the big hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U29	Thank you. We follow the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, but you, too, will contribute in a way to this delay.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U30	Unfortunately, a member of the Riigikogu can ask each of the rapporteurs a question. Valdo, you already got your chance. No more questions for the waitress. I'll open negotiations if I have a call to make. That's not what you want. [[A voice from the hall.]] Valdo Randpere, would you like to ask me something? Okay. No amendments to the draft 732 have been tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 732. We'll do it in about a minute. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? (Voice of the floor: "Yes. ") I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision on the establishment of the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee for the resolution of the population crisis 732. Please take a stand and vote. 54 votes in favour, 1 against and 7 abstentions. Draft 732 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision "Construction of the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee to resolve the population crisis" submitted by the Fatherland Group has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U31	Honourable Riigikogu! Our second item on today's agenda is the debate on the crucial national issue of the problem of combating money. I will briefly remind you of the procedure for the discussion. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu's Law and Rules of Procedure Act, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, acting on a proposal from the Legal Affairs Committee, decided on the following procedure for discussing the important state issue of "The problem of preventing money laundering": the presentation by Jaanus Kariladi, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee (up to 15 minutes) and questions and answers (up to 20 minutes), the presentation by Kristi Raigi, Director of the Estonian Institute of Foreign Policy of the International Centre for Defence Studies (up to 15 minutes), questions and answers (up to 20 minutes), the presentation by Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Board (up to 15 minutes) and questions and answers (up to 20 minutes) by attorney Maria Mägi-Rohtmets (up to 15 minutes) and questions and answers (up to 20 minutes). A member of the Riigikogu can submit up to two questions to the rapporteurs. The negotiations and speeches are then open to members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups, i.e. all members of the Riigikogu. However, at the request of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak to the representatives of the political groups and then to the members of the Riigikogu who are not representatives of the political groups. The decision of the Riigikogu is not adopted when the debate is closed. In addition, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to extend the time of the sitting, if necessary, until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. I repeat: until this item is closed. Now I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair, Jaanus Kariladi, chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and guests of the Riigikogu! In order to discuss money laundering issues, the Committee on Legal Affairs has gathered eight times since spring, held hearings, read correspondence, asked questions and received answers. Today we are discussing a matter of national importance. This proposal was made by consensus in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the agenda was unanimously approved both in the Commission and in this large Chamber. All six political parties came surprisingly along to confirm the need for this debate. Thank you for that. Because, unfortunately, there were also individual Members who tried to marginalise this issue and talk about scaring investors. In fact, we are currently exercising parliamentary supervision and giving it substance. After several hearings in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the exchange of letters, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am forced to admit that there are serious errors in the functioning of our public administration. The task of the Riigikogu is to correct such errors and make the state function better. This is the duty of the Riigikogu. If these errors are systemic, then we need to correct the system. If these mistakes are personal, we must admit it and not deny it. The damage to the state's reputation is not corrected by the silence of the State's incapacity. Only acceptance of errors and correction of errors improve the state's reputation. The need for these two things has made our subject of today a matter of national importance. This raises Estonia's reputation and makes Estonia more attractive to honest money. We want an honest and open discussion that will help us to become stronger and to act more effectively and honestly as a country in the future. The so-called money-laundering scandal has three interrelated aspects and is the subject of today's waitresses. The first aspect is, of course, financial. The Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu has no documents that fix the suspicious movement of EUR 200 billion, but the Committee on Legal Affairs can involve independent specialists who make a competent assessment of these documents. The second aspect, which relates to the first, is legal. If our inability to do so is due to a lack of law or a feltfulness, then we must initiate more high-quality legislation here. The legal aspect also includes the ongoing investigations, on which we do not have any clear detailed information, but which aims to find out the truth and bring those responsible to justice. And the third aspect, which cannot be overlooked, is political. We're talking about political responsibility. It is no longer possible to close your eyes to the fact that on the territory of the Republic of Estonia, crazy bank schemes were allowed to operate without interference. After all, somebody got paid to stop suspicious cash flows, including international instances, if they were to lose their strength. Someone did not do their job, promising to turn the Republic of Estonia into a dark bank transit country, a problem-free financial paradise. Political is also the fact that any suspicious amount that passes through the country constitutes a national and international security threat. That's our biggest loss. And it is not a financial problem or a legal problem; it is clearly a political, security problem. In the summer, when Danske Bank's Estonian branch became public and the scandal quickly reached an international dimension, it became clear that no branch of state or state as a whole can distance itself from it anymore, a political decision is needed with responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen and guests, experts! To date, the Committee on Legal Affairs has heard the State Attorney General Lavly Perling, who stated that the information could have moved better between the Financial Intelligence Unit, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Prosecutor's Office. This error can only be corrected by the joint forces of the Financial Intelligence Unit, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Hopefully, the State Attorney General will also make a personal contribution. I appreciate that it is already possible for these three institutions to set up and launch a new information exchange system today. Madis Reimand, Head of the Financial Intelligence Unit, has recognised in the Legal Affairs Committee that their analytical capacity could have been better. Unfortunately, this solitary testimony is not enough. It would be reasonable to expect that the Financial Intelligence Unit, headed by its Head, Madis Reimand, will draw up, in cooperation with the Minister of the Interior, a clear plan in which way and in which measures are to be implemented, to increase their analytical capacity as a matter of urgency. We can't go on with our current capabilities, it's not enough to create a few jobs. At the hearing, Eesti Pank acknowledged that the overall responsibility for the legislative background and coordination of activities has been placed with the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry's work is the responsibility of the Minister. Jürgen Ligi, former Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, expresses today's greatest satisfaction with the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority in its day. As Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the other hand, I express the greatest dissatisfaction with the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority in 2010, 2012 and 2013 when the Supervisory Board was chaired by the satisfied Jürgen Ligi. To repeat the words of President Kersti Kaljulaid, our administrative capacity should not be limited to sending a few letters. The President of the Republic said clearly the day of the week that Estonians are not only responsible for the situation, but also for the Danes. The Minister of Justice notes that the principle of total liability applies on the surface of a free state: everything that happens on the ground of our country is our responsibility. If this principle of total liability really applies, it must be implemented and implemented. I hope you will agree that in the current situation, a superficial approach is certainly not enough; what happened at the Estonian branch of à la Danske Bank is only a problem of financial supervision in Denmark. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone from this panel for coming to the hearing prepared by the Committee on Legal Affairs. No one refused to respond to the invitation. In the interests of the truth, it is now reasonable to invite the former Attorney General of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Norman Aas, to give his consent, to come to the Committee on Legal Affairs, and to the former Prime Minister, Andrus Ansip, who will certainly have a lot to talk about his review of the work of the Money Laundering Commission set up by the Government in 2006 and its subsequent chairman, Jürgen Ligi, during the years 2009 to 2015. I'm sure Andrus Ansip will be here to talk. I think he's coming. It would greatly broaden our understanding of the work of the government of its own time, now beginning to forget. The Committee on Legal Affairs has itself been involved in the fight against money laundering. In addition to the hearings, we have given the ministries a legislative guideline. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, we are working on a draft concerning the obligation to prove the origin of the money. The Committee on Legal Affairs continues its work and does not want to be a judge. In a democratic country, the highest judge is still a nation. And those who undermined the credibility of our monetary policy also bear responsibility in the eyes of the electorate. Once again, there are three aspects to the Danske bank case: firstly, financial, secondly, legal and thirdly political. In the first or financial aspect, we need clarity; in the second or legal aspect, the Riigikogu needs legislative initiatives; and in the third or political aspect, we also need political responsibility. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U33	Despite the fact that the rapporteur still had several minutes to complete the report, these minutes will not be added to the round of questions. The question is 20 minutes. The first question is asked by Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U34	Thank you. Honourable performer! You stressed political responsibility on several occasions, though 'third place'. As you said, the appearance is willing to come to Andrus Ansip, who was prime minister of this scandalous..., I do not yet want to say that during the money laundering period, I say that the alleged grandiose money laundering period. There are other executives who are willing to come. Can we also talk here about collective political responsibility, because all these years the Reform Party was in power?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U35	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to point out that today the former Attorney General Norman Aas, whose time it was, we know that Bill Browder also made requests from the prosecutor's office in 2011 or 2012, but for some reason they were not accepted. Whether the Financial Inspectorate or the Financial Intelligence Unit were unable to provide sufficient evidence or evidence of the criminal record of Bill Browder's statements at the time. In any case, it can be seen that when he later made a statement, the procedure started in several countries, not only in Estonia. Looking back, we can see that suspicious cash flows were the largest in 2011, 2012 and 2013. So, anyway, I'm gonna thank Norman Asa. Will Ansip, then head of government, Prime Minister, come before the Legal Affairs Committee? I hope he does, he always plays a brave man in public, and only recently spoke very hot about beer cans. I haven't seen him take a stand on Danske's money laundering scandal. Perhaps he simply agrees with Jürgen Ligi's opinion, with the pre-argumented points, that everything that depended on them was done well, they need to praise each other, because they actually exposed and stopped serving non-residents at Danske Bank in 2015. Maybe it's enough for him, but it's the political self-defense propaganda song of the Reform Party. Actually, it's the other way around. The problem is what they are trying to say here all the time, that dealing with this subject somehow discourages investors or brings down the reputation of the state, and the individual reform party, I would point out, however, that the individual reform party wishes to prevent the debate on this issue from going in depth. But I can see that two thirds of the Reform Party are still more in agreement with this. I also emphasised earlier that, fortunately, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, all six parliamentary parties considered it necessary to address this issue in a large Chamber before the public. I think it will raise our country's reputation and attract more investors here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U36	Jürgen Ligi, procedural question. Let me remind you that we are not in the negotiating phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U37	I want to ask. My name has been mentioned repeatedly and the chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs is on the board. Can we somehow get to legal issues with this debate? It's still pointing fingers at people and general rhetoric. But what has the Committee on Legal Affairs done during all these meetings, from the legal point of view of what are the regulations that we have come to discuss today, and what is missing? Does what is happening now correspond to the role of the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U38	Looks like Jürgen Ligi was able to squeeze himself in line.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U39	He started talking about the procedure and ended with a question. As chair of the sitting, I promise you this approach, so please respond. [[Voices from the floor.]] This is the debate on the issue raised by the Committee on Legal Affairs in this large Chamber. [[Voices from the floor.]] Mr Jürgen Ligi, let us go to the substantive issues. That's what you really wanted to point out. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We know that 200 billion mafia or criminal money was laundered in Estonia for about ten years. We all understand that this must also have been linked to Russia's security structures, otherwise the money could not have come out of there in this way. Nothing was done by the Financial Intelligence Unit, nothing was done by the Financial Supervision Authority, nothing was done by the kapo or foreign intelligence, nothing was done by the prosecutor's office and nothing was done by Eesti Pank. In addition, there is, of course, a special committee already set up with the government that you have referred to. The question is, how is this possible? Is everyone involved in this money and corrupt, or have people been threatened? Hence the specific question: Have you been put under pressure during this period or threatened not to deal with the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U41	Yeah, there's been a pressure on me not to deal with it. But I will put you and Heimari together, they can be well combined: is there any way to spread out this responsibility that we are all collectively guilty that such a thing could have happened? Yes, of course it is meant to say that you will see the Financial Intelligence Unit, the Financial Supervision Authority, Eesti Pank... But I, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, not on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, but as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, say that this actually shows the crisis in our political governance. Eesti Pank has pointed out that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for monitoring and directing all these processes. The Minister of Finance will not withdraw his salary for nothing, but he must have a clear responsibility. It also has a political mandate to bring legislative initiatives to Parliament. The Financial Supervision Authority Act also gives him very clear opportunities to do so. I don't know if he's ever read it. So this attempt to take the blame in some way collectively, that we are all responsible, is ordinary political rhetoric when it comes to running away from responsibility. If we want our political culture not to degenerate but to develop, then we should, on the contrary, talk here about political responsibility. Of course, what is the task of politicians? The construction of these ramparts, we're talking about the Financial Intelligence Unit or the Financial Supervision Authority. Then why isn't it happening? Kilvar Kessler also pointed out at the hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs that if only two or three of the 90 employees of the Financial Supervision Authority are investigating money laundering, it is too little. But who sets the structure of the Financial Supervision Authority? What is the role of the Council there? Does the Governing Council only tick along with the Chairman of the Management Board, which needs to be put on the Council's agenda, or does the Council itself have some kind of vision of how the Financial Supervision Authority should work, and is it sufficiently effective? The money-laundering data office, I know, is coming up with some more resources this year. However, if the Attorney General himself, at the hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, acknowledges that the Commission's materials have released it, that the movement of information has been a problem, then who is responsible for ensuring that the movement of information takes place in an operational, effective and effective manner? Politicians are responsible for the effectiveness of these walls of defence. I certainly would not be talking about this complex structure that you see, the Financial Intelligence Unit is under the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it is in the structure of the Central Criminal Police, the Financial Supervision Authority is formally in the structure of Eesti Pank, although it is autonomous. By characterizing structures like this, we basically get out there, yes, it is everyone's fault that our sieve wasn't strong enough. We are doing classic parliamentary supervision right now. I stress: all six political parties agreed that this monitoring should be carried out. There is no point in questioning this in any way; it is a unanimous political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U42	Before the next question, and above all the next answer, I would like to remind you that the chairman of the committee represents the Commission first and foremost. Personal opinion is not excluded in the round of answers, but I would remind you that we are still in the middle of negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Chairman of the Commission! We have not received any written texts from you, either a report or concrete proposals. That is why my question is when you could come up with clear proposals from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Then the debate would also be clearer. As this has already led to personal political responsibility, I ask whether it is possible to know which politicians and political parties, both in Estonia and outside Estonia, have received criminal money through either Danske Bank or any other bank operating in Estonia. As far as I know, the charges of money laundering have only been dropped on Edgar Savisaar, and that doesn't concern the Danske bank case. But do you have any specific points of charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U44	I don't know if you meant the article in the last Estonian Express, the title of which said that Savisaar is on trial, but Rehe and Liigi are not. (A.Herkel from the floor: "No. " Did your question have any other source? (A.Herkel from the floor: "No, I asked which politicians or political parties have received this money in Estonia or beyond. ') Your question also had a first half to what conclusions the Committee on Legal Affairs will draw. I'll answer that, too. As I mentioned in the report, we have already done something in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. The bill of proof of the origin of the money will soon be here before us. This is a very large and complex form of crime. I must admit that we have not yet completed the hearings. This is an open process, criminal proceedings are still ongoing, and we do not know all the facts and facts. As I mentioned, we want to invite the former Attorney General and the former Prime Minister's Committee on Legal Affairs to talk about the logic or the data they acted on, whether they did not have information or whether certain information was ignored. The fact that there is a money laundering problem in Estonia is not the discovery of the last six months, nor is it the discovery of the last eight months. If we look at public sources, we can see that the indications of large-scale money laundering schemes were already seen in public sources in 2009, 2011, 2012. Why wasn't it acted on? I think we have to finish the hearings, and then we can come up with clear proposals in the Committee on Legal Affairs at the end of November or early December that we should not limit ourselves to proving the origin of the money, and perhaps at all we must offer structural reform of both Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority, review their functions and efficiency, offer some ideas and ideas there. You can't do that in small rooms. I think that the more we talk about these things in the larger Chamber, the better proposals will emerge from the debate. Can we get a better result from the reform of the structure of the Financial Supervision Authority and Eesti Pank or from designing it? I think that is also possible, and I think that here we also need to work with the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U45	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U46	Thank you very much. Good waitress! Well, that damage, of course, has been done. This shady money moved in hundreds of billions, it's completely crazy sums of money, let's say so. But I didn't exactly read out of your report how much help and cooperation you still see in the DA's office right now, how much is the Attorney General's Office. We know that at the time of the alleged money laundering, right, the DA's office didn't intervene much, even though the manifestations were known. Do you see now that you are really getting involved and getting a lot of help or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U47	Yesterday, around lunch, I got an agreement with the Attorney General that he would introduce more fully the legal aid applications that Russia made during the 2011-2014 period. So I see the DA's office has gone on the road to open attitude and cooperation. Our meeting with the Attorney General is either this Wednesday or Thursday. The meeting has been agreed, the starting point we are talking about in order to get information has been agreed between the Chair of the Commission and the Attorney General, and we also agree on what must not be spoken about, because requests for legal aid have their own characteristics, everything that is written in it cannot be used in the public space. The fact that the Russian Attorney General sent five legal aid applications here in 2011-2014 with clear references to money laundering is known. But what exactly was asked, what did we say, and how is it justified that cooperation with Russia was zero? Some say that it is not quite a zero, that some information can still be exchanged. I hope that the time when the DA's office was considered a closed and closed organisation is over. I'll wait a few days and then I can tell you more. (From its place of business: "Mr President, I have a procedural question.")
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U48	Yes, Vilja Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U49	Thank you. Mr President, I ask you to stop listening to this presentation by Mrs Kariladi here. I'm a member of the Legal Affairs Committee. The decisions that Jaanus Karlai is making on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we did not make it to the Committee on Legal Affairs. All of these conclusions and how you comment on these decisions and how you comment on performers As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I do not agree to listen to this lie when it is presented on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U50	The Chair shall not be a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I can't be the one who says it is or it isn't. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U51	Thank you, Mr President. I asked you a procedural question before. From you. I didn't ask Jaanus Karilaid anything. I ask you to restore my question to the order of the questions, not to take it as an option that has already been deleted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U52	The question began procedurally and ended essentially, and Jaanus Karilaid began to answer. As you know, you have two questions. [[J. Nearly speaking in the hall.]] Let's keep going. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your speech a few moments ago, you said that an investigation is kind of under way and there are still many hearings ahead. But at the same time, you very convincingly referred to who is already guilty and who should be guilty. Did you take such decisions in the Commission? Would you like to try to explain to a simple member of the Riigikogu whether the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority has undertaken any activities or activities in relation to Danske Bank that have ended the possible money laundering that you have described?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U54	Thank you. The Financial Supervision Authority really woke up in 2014 and 2015. For this, for this period, they can also be recognized. But as I said in my presentation, in 2011, 2012 and 2013 they were powerless. I did my presentation, I repeatedly emphasised it as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I never said that I spoke on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs gave the mandate to the four rapporteurs and did not provide any points of discussion that must be spoken. It is understandable that the opposition's Reform Party does not like some positions. But the Committee on Legal Affairs has been a passageway for the Reform Party, people are constantly changing and new faces are coming. Maybe the problem is hidden there, that you don't know how some decisions come about. I spoke above all about political responsibility. What proposals should be made to improve management systems, how structures should be designed more accurately and where competences and responsibilities need to be re-evaluated needs more work. However, we do not have to have very long, thousands of hours of hearings on this issue in order to understand who at the time was politically responsible for the credibility, stability and transparency of our financial systems. It's clear who was responsible for this, but I see these people don't want to take responsibility. They're willing to make grimas and mock negative emotions, but there's no way out of their lips: "Sorry! I didn't get worse enough, there wasn't enough competence. Yeah, I didn't get enough information. I could not stress these issues with enough energy. " There is no such attitude. I think that this behaviour and attitude is very damaging to our political culture. Very harmful. In particular, the attitude pursued by Jürgen Ligi is harmful.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U55	Thanks to the waitress! The round of questions is over. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to remind you that the Riigikogu is not taking a decision on this matter. Secondly, all members of the Riigikogu can ask two oral questions, and after presentations and rounds of questions there are negotiations where all members of the Riigikogu can perform. The members of the Riigikogu are perfectly aware that if some things are not asked, the other members of their group are very often inspired to add to their question another question that may not have been asked. Valdo Randpere. Give the microphone to Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U56	Thank you. I have a procedural question. As Jaanus Karilaid referred to several times in his presentation ♪ I could not even count how many times that the Committee on Legal Affairs had consensually decided that it had to be done on the money laundering issues of the OTRK that it was the desire and will of all six parties, I just want to get the wrong out of it. It wasn't the will of six parties. I have the minutes of the Legal Affairs Committee meeting on this table. I am simply saying for our verbatim: it was not a consensual decision that this issue should be brought to this Chamber of the Riigikogu in such a relatively poor form.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U57	My fellow Member, this was more of a negotiation issue, but well, we will move on. Secondly, we ask for a presentation by Kristi Raigi, Director of the International Centre for Defence Studies, Estonian Institute for Foreign Policy, the length of the presentation is up to 15 minutes and the questions and answers last up to 20 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U58	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm trying to give you a brief overview of the security threats to international money laundering. What I can offer is background analysis, I do not provide answers to questions about political or legal guilt. Let's start with globalisation. We live in a world of international networks and connections. Countries, people, companies, banks, all are more closely related to each other than ever before. Globalisation was a major trend in the period following the Cold War, which also involved Estonia. From the point of view of the liberal economy, this trend has been positive in particular, leading to economic growth, encouraging the development of the Estonian state and giving people opportunities for self-realization. However, globalisation is accompanied by a variety of negative phenomena. Cross-border crime is one of the phenomena of the dark side of the open world and money laundering is one of the forms of transnational crime associated with many other wrongdoings and threats. Money moves unnoticed across borders and it is a global phenomenon that effectively unites people. We all need money and the more freely it moves in the world, the more people have opportunities to make money, both legally and illegally. Money laundering is partly purely economic (tax fraud, corruption cover-up). However, I would like to stress that the border between economic stability, the rule of law and national security is blurred here. In addition to economic crimes, there are also more direct security threats that money laundering entails. An important part of international money laundering is related to terrorist financing, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and illicit arms trafficking. International cooperation in the fight against money laundering became an important impetus in the 1980s. It was caused by the flow of millions of drug dollars through U.S. banks. One important turning point was the 9/11 terrorist attack in New York 2001, which brought with it an increased focus on terrorist financing. New anti-money laundering rules were introduced in Western countries under the leadership of the US. In the 1990's, it was still quite easy to buy a suitcase full of dollars, such as a luxury car, and in the new millennium it will not work out so easily. A separate chapter in the story of international money laundering is made up of Russia and a wider post-Soviet space. Money laundering is among the so-called hybrid threats from Russia, and this is, of course, the most topical and, from the point of view of our subject today, the most difficult factor in terms of security. A little background. According to the IMF, the informal economy accounts for around 38% of Russia's national production. Another relevant fact: Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, hundreds of billions have flowed west from Russia, a significant part of which is excluded from official statistics. According to economist Thomas Piketty and his colleagues, offshore assets represent sums of money corresponding to about 75% of Russian national production. Part of this money may have been obtained legally and hidden abroad in order to avoid taxes. Against this background, there is a lack of confidence in the institutions, the legal system and economic and political stability of its country. Some of this money has been obtained through corruption and even purely economic crime, such as tax fraud and corruption, is associated with security risks. Money laundering undermines the credibility of our economic system and the rule of law, both in the eyes of our citizens and external observers. Black money carries the risk of corruption and the opportunity to use it as a means of political pressure. I would like to recall the foundations of Estonia's security policy and quote the document adopted in this Chamber: "Estonia's security policy is based on an extensive security approach covering all security-related trends and important areas of security. A spacious approach to security was defined as the ability of the state and its people to defend their own intrinsic values and objectives against various external political, military, economic and social threats and risks and their interactions. " So broad security also includes economic security, which is guaranteed through economic safeguards, including measures against corruption, tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. However, as I have already mentioned, the risks posed by money laundering are not limited to threats to economic security. Some of Russia's black money is linked to organised crime in these areas: drug trafficking, arms trafficking and human trafficking. For example, Europol estimates that about one third of the heroin consumed in Europe has been mediated by Russian criminal groups. Another security factor: in the context of money laundering, there may be a desire to avoid sanctions. As we know, one form of sanctions against Russia by the European Union and the United States is that the assets of those civil servants and military personnel in the West who are responsible for Russia's military intervention in Ukraine have been frozen. It is possible to avoid these sanctions by concealing the real owners of the money. I now come to the highest security threat: part of the Russian black money is involved in the activities of Russian security bodies (Federal Security Service FSB, Foreign Intelligence Service SVR, Military Intelligence GRU). Part of the Russian black money flowing through Danske Bank has allegedly links with the FSB and also with the members of President Vladimir Putin's family. Several international media channels have referred to this. The Kremlin, of course, denies any connection between President Putin and Danske Bank. General background. The Russian security authorities need money to carry out their operations outside Russia's borders, including propaganda operations, cyber attacks, the influence of Western politicians with financial support, the pursuit of Kremlin's enemies and even assassinations. Understandably, the origin and purpose of such money are carefully concealed. It is worth noting that there are close links between the Russian security authorities and organised crime. They have been thoroughly investigated by Russian expert Mark Galeotti. According to Galeott, organised crime of Russian origin, including money laundering, is a serious security threat for Europe, not only a criminal phenomenon. The Russian state uses organised crime services to carry out these operations both at home and abroad. The security bodies that order these services have a strong influence on Russian policy. The criminal groups in turn buy political protection from the security authorities, as it is called, either by sharing some of their profits or by providing the necessary services to the state. The interrelation between political power, security structures and organised crime is a peculiar feature of the Russian political system, which we certainly do not want to import into Estonia or the European Union. For what purpose does Russia do this, perhaps why does the Russian state use organised crime services, including money laundering? In addition to economic motivation, it is important to see the link between Russia's strategic objectives. Vladimir Putin's goal since 2000 when he came to power in Russia has been to make Russia a great power once again, meaning the status of an equal partner in relations with the US and a privileged role in its immediate foreign country. The West has not been able to accept Russia's vision of the security situation in Europe, nor to offer the privileges of the great power it hoped for, and Russia has therefore actively begun to demolish the unity of the West. The security strategy of the Russian Federation addresses an asymmetrical approach, including technological, economic and information tools, in order to weaken its opponent. In addition to disrupting Western unity, Russia is attempting to undermine the social order of Western countries by targeting free elections, independent media and the rule of law. A little more in the broader context of security policy. Against Russia, No 1 is the US, whose security strategy has undergone a significant change. Terrorism was a threat in the US Security Strategy No. 1 for years. This changed after Donald Trump came to power. The strategy adopted during his term of office identifies the major threats to the US in competition with the major powers, in particular China, as well as Russia. The increased competition between the great powers is the megatrend that dominates international politics today and tomorrow, which, to some extent, replaces the trend of globalisation from which I started my speech. Transnational networks and links may not be lost, but large countries are rather trying to limit them, control them and exploit them to weaken the enemy. Since the post-cold-war era of the Cold War, we have moved to the post-post-cold-war era, where common rules of play become more difficult and belief in international norms and agreements threatens to dry out. This focus on the fight between major states is a new context for money laundering as an international phenomenon and, in this context, money laundering will also become a different type, perhaps even more serious security problem than before. Finally, a word on solutions. Money laundering is an international phenomenon, but it is mainly managed at national level. Responsibility for establishing and implementing the rules lies primarily at national level and covers different areas of administration and institutions. But, of course, to combat cross-border problems and crime, including money laundering, cross-border cooperation is needed. Here I specifically mention the European Union, which provides the most important framework for this. With regard to the Danske Bank case, the European Union's failure to combat money laundering has received increased attention. There are shortcomings in the rules of play, institutional structures, as well as in data exchange and cooperation between Member States. How to make the European Union's anti-money laundering activities more effective in the future is an issue which is already outside my competence, but I would stress once again that, in addition to national measures, Estonia must act actively here through the European Union in order to make international money laundering more difficult to accomplish in the future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U59	Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening a round of questions, it's 20 minutes long. Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question was meant for the Karilaid, but since you also talked for a very long time about proving the criminal origin of the money from Russia, I ask you about the presumption of innocence or the establishment of a regulation on the burden of proof. The point is that such a proposal was made by the banking union to the Riigikogu at the beginning of the year. The debate on this issue here in the Riigikogu is strikingly stretched. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission has also said that there will be no such thing in Estonia. The bill has not reached the Riigikogu. But I'm asking you how much in the first place is the introduction of an obligation to prove the origin of the money, i.e. the reverse of the obligation to provide proof of the origin of the money, i.e. I know that in U.S. law it is there to help us. How necessary is this to prevent money laundering and is there such a possibility in the laws of other countries of the European Union? What is the practice in other countries, how do you assess it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U61	This issue is somewhat out of my expertise, but as far as I know, it is precisely this debate that is going on in many European countries, so that such a law is necessary in order to be able to combat international money laundering more effectively. One more aspect here is, as I mentioned, that the fight against money laundering must involve different administrative areas and institutions. This is not just a criminal or legal phenomenon. In order to find out about Russian-origin black money, especially if the Russian state security services are involved, this issue needs to be dealt with in Estonia, for example, by security authorities. Reconnaissance activities are needed to obtain this information and cooperation is needed between, for example, intelligence and legal institutions, a legal aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U62	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for all the information that this report contained. But here's the question. I guess we did, yeah, then we had a suitable bowl where we could get that money to get it clean. But what can these practices be? What did Estonia lose or begin to lose because we had a bowl like this here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U64	I'm not sure I understood the question quite well. (R.Põldaru from the floor: "I mean, what can be the practice that changes, what does Estonia lose, what is missing or what does it get? ") Do you mean that Estonia could, for example, lose, I don't know, reputation or investment? (R.Põldaru Hall: "I'm not talking about reputation, I'm talking about practice.")
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U65	Losing the painting is, of course, also a practical matter. But do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U66	I would say that the potential losses I mentioned, such as the loss of reputation, are extremely difficult to measure. But actually, I would point out that this is an international phenomenon. Of course, in this debate in Estonia, we focus on what needs to be done in Estonia and what the consequences are for Estonia, but we need to see a wider picture. My impression from the international press is that international attention is not directed specifically to Estonia, but to Danske Bank, Denmark and also to the totally international phenomenon that money laundering represents. I would not be overly concerned that Estonia would have been particularly damaged in any way, compared to other countries where the same problem exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U67	Before the next question, I would remind you, just in case, that questions are answered by the Director of the Estonian Institute of Foreign Policy of the International Centre for Defence Studies. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U68	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. My question relates a little to the previous question. You have finally pointed out that coordination was actually taking place in Denmark. It is unsolved to what extent it was a 100% demand or a recommendation. I mean, it was organized. On the basis of your analyses, could it be said that, as Estonia has dealt openly with this issue, but many countries also came out of our hearings rather secretive and say that they have discovered such things, does Estonia have the opportunity to take the same leading role at European Union level in better solving money laundering issues, or does it seem to be like a vassal of these countries because of Russia and Azerbaijan's money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U69	I will start with the role of Estonia. Unfortunately, due to this case of Danske Bank, Estonia has in some cases fallen into this box, which we have thought we did not belong to and where Latvia and Cyprus, for example, are the countries where the most Russian black money has been washed and done for years. First of all, of course, we need to find our own national solutions and answers before Estonia can take the lead or some important role in the European Union. However, participation in the activities of the European Union is certainly essential. As I said, in the European Union, this issue has now received increased attention. There are many security aspects here, precisely because there are different types of crime, on the one hand, against the background of Russian black money laundering, such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, etc., and, on the other hand, the special operations of the Russian security authorities and their other activities within the framework of the European Union. I hope that somehow answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U70	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You rightly focused your presentation on security threats and on the fact that a very large part of this money, more than 200 billion in seven years, was linked to the Russian political elite and special services. In your opinion, looking at the current investigation and situation, in this seven year period, did the Department of Defence and the Department of Foreign Intelligence focus enough on these threats and this situation? You mentioned in your presentation the possible political blackmail that comes with it. In your opinion, is this a very subjective and very hypothetical question was it possible that there could have been political forces in Estonia or representatives of those involved in this field during the seven years, and that they could be blackmailed today by the money that passed through Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U72	I do not have information that some politicians in Estonia have been bought with this money. That kind of information, I hope, doesn't come up in these investigations either. But we know, of course, that the Russian security authorities have tried to influence a number of politicians in different European countries, especially members of extreme right-wing parties and these political parties, with financial resources. So attention must be paid to this problem, it must be monitored. What Estonia's security authorities have done and what information they have, you must ask them already.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U73	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Kristi Raik! You gave a very good overview of the broader security context, but you also said that the European Union's failure in the fight against money laundering and in cooperation for this purpose is... In short, this policy has failed. How long do you think it will take for this policy to succeed? Jaanus Karilaid talks a lot about Danske Bank and Estonia here, but at the same time there have been cases in the Netherlands and Denmark, you mentioned the countries where Russian money goes through every day in Germany. How long will it take for this policy to succeed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U75	This, of course, depends primarily on the Member States, on what they agree and what they do to each other. I would not blame the European Union too much as an organisation, it is still in the hands of the Member States. But the positive sign is that not only money laundering but also a number of issues related to money laundering are now being given more attention. In many Member States where, in the past, it may not have been a practice to pay attention to the criminal activity of Russian origin in the public, it has now begun to pay attention to this. Political awareness has increased. I also mentioned the term 'hybrid threats', which is very scattered, but money laundering is perfectly fit down there. In recent years, a lot of attention has also been paid to how to deal with hybrid threats, precisely by understanding that money laundering, for example, may be linked to cyber attacks on a Member State or an operation carried out for the purpose of attacking free elections. These problems must be seen as a whole. Organised crime is also one, let us say, of the threats from Russia, which have also become more dealt with, and money laundering goes under there. Above all, however, responsibility lies with the Member States and at national level. Cooperation is necessary, but the implementation of decisions is primarily at national level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U76	Please, Anneli Ott!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U77	Dear waitress, You have very thoroughly and interestingly focused your presentation on what is happening in Russia and the dangers of money laundering, as well as on the need for us to make changes at European Union level in order to reduce these threats. But the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee mentioned in his report that the Russian Attorney General turned to Estonia several times about what was happening at Danske Bank, but the Estonian side did not respond to these appeals. If we want to make changes, we must first understand what we have failed to do or where something has been done wrong. If you look at this question at Estonian level, what would be the things that were not done at the time? It's what we need so we can move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U78	Thanks for the questions. I would like to remind you again that I am an expert in international politics, so in this case, which was specifically not done in Estonia in this case, when this request for contact came from Russia, I owe you an answer. But I can offer a broader context again. Cooperation with Russia in this area is, of course, very difficult, primarily because the Russian political system is so different from our system. There is no rule of law in the form we understand it. There is no independent judiciary and, as I described, organised crime and public institutions are interwoven in a way that we cannot quite imagine or understand. All of this, for example, makes the exchange of information a rather complex issue. If we want to track down organized crime of Russian origin, what information are we prepared to share, and what information do we receive in return? How can we work with a system that is so different from ours? This cooperation is necessary and is, of course, very good, if, above all, on a personal level, between the people who work in these institutions and deal with these problems, they are still trying to establish these contacts and create some trust between Estonia and Russia in order for the information to move, and they are trying to find some common solutions. Of course, money laundering is also partly an economic crime that has no political connection to security structures. I'm not saying that washing all Russian black money has something to do with Russian security bodies. There are also purely economic crimes here, and the motivation of the Russian side to find out about them can be quite strong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U79	Hardi Volmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U80	Dear Vice-Chairman, Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. I first wanted to ask you about this phenomenon and ask you about Estonia's volumes in the context of the Baltic States. I actually got an answer to that, but I'm still asking. These sums are astronomical to ordinary people. And surprise-surprise (though I have to admit that I have read or heard it from somewhere), the usual logic would say that in this friendly line there would still be Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, but look at the miracle, instead of Lithuania there is Cyprus. Is there any rational explanation for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U81	Why is Lithuania not part of this group? [[H. Volmer will comment on the floor.]] My answer gets quite speculative, but generally Russian money goes to countries where there is a relatively strong Russian-speaking community. There are complicated reasons, and there is no way I want to draw parallels between the Russian-speaking people and the mob. Most people in the Russian community certainly do not want to have or have any ties to organised crime. But there's a connection. In Cyprus, it has evolved in a completely different way than in Estonia or Latvia. There are Russian rich people with assets, houses and villas. They spend a lot of time there and there has been one centre, as a result of the fact that surveillance has been non-existent and they have been allowed to do so. Cyprus has reaped economic benefits from this. Estonia and Latvia have different backgrounds, but the existence of the Russian community is one such link. This explains, for example, why in many Western or southern European countries the organised crime of Russian origin has not worked very well at all. There are groups in southern Europe that control this area and do not allow outside groups to get very close.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, who are following the sitting in your offices via the on-line television, please also follow the order of the questions on the table, otherwise you will lose the opportunity to ask or it will delay, although perhaps your question would explain the situation significantly. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U83	Thank you. How do you assess the international cooperation that took place in Estonia in the example of Danske Bank? On the one hand, the opinion is that Estonia acted badly, while today's Minister of Finance has also said that Estonia did and reacted correctly, including the Financial Supervision Authority, but the Danish side did not come with it. How would you judge this or why it happened that, on the one hand, it seems as if Estonia were trying to make itself as guilty as possible because of the political struggle, and, on the other hand, we see how Danish communication is working to reduce Denmark's own role and to clearly increase Estonia's role as a small country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U84	Thank you. I am again indebted to a direct answer, but I can say that the Danish State may make an effort to show that Denmark is guilty less, but I do not think that they will get very far with it. The attention of the international media and the international community is still very strongly focused on Denmark and more on Denmark than on Estonia. Rather, the way we talk about it is the topic of discussion within Estonia. We need to talk and investigate. It is in itself, I think, also the strength of Estonia and not only in this problem, but also in the case of the capture of many other things, for example, scouts: Estonia is open, it does not hide problems from either its own or the international audience. But a dangerous trend is perhaps if too much party policy is involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U85	The question can also be asked by Peter Ernits. The microphone's open. (You vote in the hall: "Peter, your question! " P. Ernits in the hall: " I don't want to! I don't want to! ") See how things go next time. Helmut Hallemaa can still ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U86	Okay. Am I asking? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U87	Take the trouble, will you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U88	Thank you. Honourable waitress! That's a good question to ask you, even though I wanted to ask Jaanus Kariladi. There has been a great deal of talk here about the fact that dealing with this thing is like a reputation damage. But is dealing with such a thing, which is being investigated by the United States and its security authorities and the European Commission, or would it actually be detrimental if we did not deal with it in Estonia either politically or publicly?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U89	Okay. I think you already answered. I actually answered that question before. I think time's up. So thank you all!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U90	In answer, I would have given you some time. Thank you very much, Kristi Raik, for your presentation and your answer to questions. Kilvar Kessler, chairman of the board of the Financial Supervision Authority, is now coming to the chair. The length of the report is 15 minutes and then there are 20 minutes of questions and answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U91	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good viewers in this Chamber, as well as those who follow this debate online! Thank you for the opportunity to participate in the discussion of an important subject for Estonia in the Riigikogu! The last time we dealt with the money laundering risks before the Riigikogu plenary on 10 May this year and 3 May last year, we have also discussed the Danske case specifically with you. Now, on the other hand, the presentation was requested: the practice of the Financial Supervision Authority in international money laundering matters. The subject is reflected in one sentence: Estonia was the first country in the euro area where, at the request of the Financial Supervision Authority, the European Central Bank (ECB) took the credit institution's authorisation for a significant breach of anti-money laundering rules. And it wasn't a walk in the park. This authorisation must be put in the context of our supervisory policy: the risk of a risky business actually ending is a sufficient deterrent for banks to seriously think about whether it is worth risking. The second point that makes bankers walking on edge think seriously is the real risk of deprivation of liberty, whether it be money laundering or other such a crime. Here we are moving to the jurisdiction of the court's penal policy, which stands separate from both the legislative power and the executive power. However, the Financial Supervision Authority, although an independent financial supervisory authority, is not a court which imposes criminal penalties or settles a civil dispute between each bank and its client on the basis of an action. Nor is the prevention of such cases the sole purpose of financial supervision activities, as transactions are still carried out by banks and customers and financial supervision is not directly managed by the bank. Financial supervision is governed by law only in the public interest and not in the interests of individual persons. As we have reached financial supervision, for the purposes of our further presentation, we will define the institutions on the issue of the prevention of money laundering, we will limit the subject that the Financial Supervision Authority is practicing and end up with conclusions and suggestions from the ground of practice. The risk of money laundering and the prevention of money laundering in the financial sector is mainly dealt with by four groups of persons: market participants, the FIU, the investigating authorities and the Financial Supervision Authority. Market participants apply the applicable acquis: they must build and operate their organisation in accordance with the requirements of the law and risk appetite, have to know their client, monitor their business relationship with the client and report suspicious transactions to the FIU. The FIU collects and analyses information referring to money laundering, receives reports from market participants on suspicious transactions, pursues proceeds from criminal activities, freezes accounts, requires information from persons and exchanges it with other FIUs. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Police and Border Guard Board investigate suspected money laundering, collect evidence, ensure criminal proceedings and conduct other activities under the Code of Criminal Procedure and cooperate with foreign law enforcement authorities. The Financial Supervision Authority shall uphold the stability and integrity of the financial sector by implementing financial supervision, in particular by assessing the compliance of financial supervisors with financial market legislation, business model and risks to the capital, managers and organisation of financial supervisors, including risk controls. The Financial Supervision Authority cooperates with foreign financial supervisory authorities. The Financial Inspectorate does not investigate or judge crimes. Next, we will clarify the concepts of "money laundering" and "banking services for non-residents." Money laundering is a criminal offence provided for in the Penal Code. In essence, money laundering is a prerequisite for criminal activity, or pre-criminal crime, from which the product or what is involved will then be legalised, transformed, acquired, possessed, used or concealed. Money laundering, for example, is when a person who stole a bicycle and received money from it buys food from a grocery store. Should it pay by card, a question may be asked about the role of the bank and its diligence. If a bank suspects or knows that money laundering or related offences are being committed, it is obliged to inform the FIU without delay. In this context, processes should be implemented in the system of investigative bodies, including criminal proceedings to identify the facts of the crime, if there is sufficient basis. The Financial Supervision Authority is more directly concerned with an issue that reads as follows: providing banking services to non-residents. Banks are not prohibited by law from providing banking services to non-residents. The banking and anti-money laundering rules apply to banks, in principle, say that a risk control organisation must comply with a business strategy, i.e., figuratively, risks, in addition to certain minimum legal requirements. There is no requirement in the law that a risk control organisation should faithfully prevent crimes or attempts by bank clients. It's more a question of probability. In the field of anti-money laundering, the principle of risk was established at international level by the 2012 FATF recommendations. The FATF, or Financial Action Task Force, is an international organisation established in 1989 on the initiative of the G7, which develops and agrees standards for the prevention of money laundering. For example, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and also the European Commission are members of the FATF, but Estonia is not. By the way, Russia is also a member of the FATF. The FATF Recommendation of 2012 reached the Fourth Directive on the Prevention of Money Laundering in the European Union, which entered into force in June 2015 and has now also been transposed into Estonian rules on the prevention of money laundering. The business strategy is individual for each bank, as well as an individual risk control organisation: people, their number and competence, internal rules, or work organisation and systems, in particular IT helpers to identify, measure and control risks. Estonian law as well as European Union legislation and FATF recommendations on these matters of bank organisation and management are very, very general. Much depends on the quality of the information held by the financial supervisory authority and the dialogue with the bank and remains within the scope of the supervisory assessment. I'll give you an example. The Estonian branch of Danske Bank, a Danish credit institution, had a significant share of non-residents' business in 2012 and 2013. The Financial Supervision Authority has seen this from the financial statement submitted to the Authority for liquidity supervision purposes by the Bank, which summarises the outstanding balances of non-residents' bank accounts at the end of the month. Compared to all other deposits held by Danske's branch, they were relatively large. A non-resident is always expected to be a source of higher risk because the bank's information about him and his activities is more incomplete, the bank's ability to control it less or more costly. From the perspective of financial supervision, the problem is that a business involving non-residents and its risk control are not balanced, if the control is weak and is below risk-taking. How to determine whether a bank's risk control exists and what is it like? Answer: Collecting evidence and evaluating it in the light of the rules of the law. Evidence shall be obtained by means of procedural measures. In the language of the Act: the form of the procedural procedure and other details of the administrative procedure are determined by the administrative body on the basis of discretion. The same section of the law states that administrative procedures are carried out in a purposeful and efficient manner, as well as as as easily and quickly as possible, avoiding excessive costs and inconveniences for individuals. Thus, at the zero point, the company has a preference for less costly and unpleasant procedures, but it is subject to consideration. As a rule, in the case of financial supervision, the first procedure at the zero point is the so-called written request for information, for the collection of evidence. In reply, the bank has a duty of cooperation, that is to say, in the language of the law: the party to proceedings is obliged to submit and communicate to the administrative body the facts and evidence which are relevant to the proceedings known to it. This standard is presumed to be met. To the Danske case. Both 2012 and 2013 the Bank complied with its internal rules, descriptions and assessments of ongoing internal improvement processes and audits. They referred to or confirmed the risk control or improvement of non-residents' business which did not give rise to direct coercion. In retrospect, it can be concluded that the bank's feedback at the time was misleading, to put it mildly. However, since the on-the-spot verification was planned in relation to the branch and the clues to Danske's non-residents' business risk insurance did not stop, the Financial Supervision Authority realised this plan at the beginning of 2014. On-the-spot checks are a costly and abusive procedure for the administrative body to gather evidence, as they involve work at the financial supervision subject's office and "interrupting" normal business processes. Usually there is about one month on site, the final report will be completed up to six months after the on-site phase. The Bank's risk control system may meet the objective requirements of law, but may not be very effective, valuable or operational in relation to the business strategy and risk appetite of the respective bank. FATF 2012 standards and their transposition by the European Union in 2015 led to a risk-based approach, i.e. a risk-control organisation's assessment of the business strategy, not just in terms of the requirements of the law. In the case of Danske branch, we have already assessed during the on-the-spot verification whether and how the risk-control organisation operates in the light of the bank's business strategy. This was one of the first risk-sensitive controls carried out in accordance with a newer methodology. At the time, Danske Bank argued against the conclusions of the Financial Supervision Authority and the draft injunction. This led in 2015 to the precept of the Financial Supervision Authority and to the closure of the non-resident business in Danskes and the exchange of branch managers. By default, the language of the administrative procedure is Estonian, so both our 2014 on-the-spot check report (340 pages) and the 2015 injunction were native. We sent the summary of the report and information on the injunction to our colleagues in the Danish financial supervision in English. This brings us to the dimension of international cooperation. In the field of anti-money laundering, FIUs have a global network of cooperation called the Egmont Group. It brings together 159 FIUs and the Estonian Financial Intelligence Unit is also a member of the group. Through this form of work, data offices exchange the information necessary to prevent money laundering. Financial Supervisory Authorities are not part of the Egmont Group. The financial supervisory authorities shall cooperate with the responsible institutions and forms of cooperation within the European Union on the architecture of harmonised standards. Three European Union bodies, EBA, ESMA and EIOPA, are involved in the fight against money laundering and the handling of such cooperation from the perspective of financial supervision. EBA has a key role to play. EBA shall be independent of individual Member States, shall have sufficient experience in the field of financial supervision and shall have transparent procedures. EBA's main task is also to develop legislation on the prevention of money laundering. EBA stands for a good common culture of financial supervision. To this end, quality control is applied to the selected subjects of their member institutions, including the Financial Supervision Authority. EBA shall settle disputes between financial supervisors, take decisions on the incorrect application of Union law and participate as an observer in the work of colleges of financial supervision. Member States' financial supervisory authorities shall cooperate in the form of colleges of supervisors as well as in the form of ad-hoc information exchange. All of this is covered by the requirement of confidentiality in accordance with the acquis of the European Union. Colleges of supervisors bring together financial supervisors from the host countries of banks operating across borders. The so-called supervisory authority determines the College's calendar and topics. In the area of anti-money laundering, the role of colleges has been defined in terms of bank management and organisational issues, since the boundary between bank management, holistic risk control and the organisation for the prevention of money laundering in banks is, to put it mildly, conditional. Finally, thoughts on the conclusions of the Financial Supervision Authority and on what our proposals for the future will be. The planning process of the Financial Supervision Authority will take place in an annual cycle, we will sum up as a risk map what has been concluded during the previous year and from its surface we will put in place a general supervisory plan for the coming year. During this work, it became clear to us in 2014 that risk controls related to the prevention of money laundering are a priority issue. It reached our current strategy as one of the clear priority work streams, alongside a few other important activities. The Financial Supervision Authority has consistently carried out the strategy, applying the opportunities at its disposal and its best skills and knowledge. Statistics show this: since 2014, the share of non-residents in our banking system has decreased from around 20% to less than 10%, the share of offshores from around 10% to less than 1%. We have constantly developed our supervisory methodology in view of the statutory mandate of the financial supervisory authority. We have clearly signalled to bank managers that the risk of money laundering is a priority and we do not want to see rogue risk controls. We have contributed more to our presence, to on-the-spot inspections. We've closed down virtually only non-residents serving Versobank, we've directed Danske to shut down non-residents' business. We have exchanged information on the prevention of money laundering, as well as other cooperation with financial supervisors inside and outside the European Union. This work continues and is continuous. The short and clear statements I make here are tens and hundreds of hours of top experts' work, risk assessment, persuasion, writing, appearances in courts and other bodies. Our proposals for the future are simple in their starting points. Firstly, the role of Estonian criminal law offences and mistrials as it is today is not suitable for the financial sector because the expiry period is short, the procedure for legal persons is very complex or expensive and the penalty rates are low. We have been hoping for 14 years that it will be improved, and we have also been working on it, but it has not come true. The financial sector itself has not been interested and the relevant lobby should not be underestimated. A clean paper has to be taken and the matter rearranged from the outset, whether or not to avoid double standards in the treatment of large banks directly supervised by the European Central Bank, which... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U92	As President of the sitting, I am confident that you can take advantage of the remaining moments in the response round as a skilled speaker and answerer. I'll open a round of answers, 20 minutes. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U93	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have seen the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority very closely because I myself was at some point a member of the Financial Supervision Authority Board. I can't talk about what we did in the Council, but I can refer to the press. The fact that the Financial Supervision Authority was finally able to force Danske Bank to liquidate its non-resident business was one of the achievements. The fact that the Financial Supervision Authority did not grant authorisation to the Tallinn Cooperative Bank was just as remarkable in my opinion. This cooperative bank was clearly a central party project. Don't you feel that maybe not authorising this cooperative bank has made it necessary for some of the central parties to attack you and the Financial Supervision Authority very viciously today? I quote Jüri Manor. He has said that it is a well - and - cut formation of the middle party: "It still made me feel hollow. The city's stake is 98 percent there, and they put more money on it all the time. "In his words, all the most important members of the city council and city council were present at the meetings...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U94	Question time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U95	... as well as a large proportion of the central party members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U96	Question time is one minute. Although it got exciting at the end, we'll hold on to one minute. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U97	I understand that the question is whether the Financial Supervision Authority's work is based on the law or something else. If I formulate it this way and answer it, I can say that, as far as I know, and under my leadership, the Financial Supervision Authority is based only on one and that is the law. No political influence, no national influence or any other influence will affect us. It's just a bill. One more observation: the authorisation, granting and taking of banks in the euro area is decided not by the Financial Supervision Authority, but by the European Central Bank. Of course, there is cooperation with the European Central Bank in this area, but the final decision is their own, theirs, theirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U98	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U99	Thank you. Mr Kessler, that was a very non-lifely answer. The Financial Supervision Authority is very politically angry and one of its sources is, of course, the non-licensing of the municipal bank. There are a few other things that I believe are out of your jurisdiction at all. You're being asked to intervene in civil matters, as far as I know, in Swed's dispute, and also in Gild's case. Have you been under personal pressure, political pressure on these matters? To what do you explain this general attitude towards the institution that has certainly best managed to prevent money laundering? Why are two of today's waitresses so clearly on the other side compared to you? Why is there a lawyer here arguing with you and trying to get you into a civil dispute, at least one, if not two?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U100	Now there were so many questions on one issue that I did not even have time to write them all down or put them behind my ears. But the one thing that got stuck in my ear was whether I felt pressured to carry out my statutory duties. Here's what I'm gonna say. Financial supervision always comes into contact with different stakeholders in its work, are market-related stakeholders or are related to the public or politicians, so-called stakeholders, and we are dealing with all of them. We try to be in dialogue with all the parties involved, but we do make our decisions only on the basis of the law. If we were to start from something other than the law, I think the road we're going to take is very short.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U101	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs gave an assessment of the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority in 2011-2013. This assessment was harsh that the Financial Supervision Authority was powerless. Do you agree with this assessment and, if you agree, where and what were the shortcomings? You yourself have always stressed that it is on the side of the law that must be taken into account. Time, of course, was different. Or was there a lack of competences, skills, perhaps such a broader picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U103	Good member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. It is always very difficult for me to argue as a lawyer in the context of categories such as powerless or vigorous. In my opinion, the categories are facts and the rules of law. Look, it's always good to see what happened in the past, because right now we're probably in a different field of information and it's good to think about whether or not something could have been done differently. Let us now put this aside and look at, for example, 2013 or 2012, what the information field was like (at Danske Bank, I understand, the question is above all that), and what the know-how of the time was. These same FATF rules, I told you about risk-based financial supervision, were only introduced internationally until 2012. Looking at all these facts and aspects, I would not dare to say that financial supervision was powerless. You see, financial supervision cannot deal with all the issues in the world. In theory, financial supervision can also collect taxes through banks; financial supervision can in principle have a full impact on our lives through banks, but it is not the task of financial supervision. The task of financial supervision is to ensure that the financial sector is stable and legally transparent. This is our main mandate. There are certain ancillary activities, including aiding in the prevention of money laundering, what I was talking about today, but perhaps such expectations in the direction of financial supervision sometimes go beyond the framework of the law. It's right or not, but it happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U104	Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U105	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! You have repeatedly referred to the high level of confidentiality and procedural freedom of the Financial Supervision Authority. That's what you've done in public many times. You have tried to give the impression that what is happening in our banks cannot and must not be made public in any way because of confidentiality. However, you only recently gave a thorough interview to the Estonian Express and Estonian Television, where you recalled episodes years ago in cases referring to money laundering. How did such a well-fulfilled obligation of confidentiality allow you to bring these episodes to the media? Tell me the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U106	Mr Karilaid, a good member of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the question. First, the financial supervisory confidentiality obligation of the Financial Supervision Authority is laid down in § 54 of the Financial Supervision Authority Act. That's a pretty long provision, and I'm not going to read it here. This provision is rooted in European Union law. In principle, every European Union directive and regulation on financial supervision sets out the confidentiality requirements of the financial supervisory authority and its staff and the conditions under which these requirements can not be met or the information disclosed. There is no doubt one such case if the subject of financial supervision himself, such as Danske Bank, has published information about himself. It may also be another subject, I specifically do not know what you are referring to, but it is certainly one of the grounds when the subject has spoken of his or her activities. Danske Bank published a rather extensive report on its activities in the Estonian branch in connection with non-residents' business as well as other parts of the bank on 19 September. When we look at this report, we will see that there is also talk about the financial supervision of Estonia and its activities, about how uncomfortable the financial supervision of Estonia was for Danske Bank. This will undoubtedly also give the Estonian financial supervisory authority the opportunity to speak on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U107	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! The question is short. Looking back, and perhaps to prevent future washing machine work like this, do you say what you think was the obstacle that this machine worked for so long and went through so much of it? From the perspective of the future: what is needed so that things like this do not happen again?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U109	Thank you for your question, good member of the Riigikogu. Actually, it's a pretty complicated question. The question is whether and to what extent the Estonian banking system can be international. You see, from the point of view of our financial supervision, we are talking about non-residents, we are not talking about money laundering. Money laundering is a crime. At the moment, there is no conviction about Danske Bank, i.e. we cannot talk about money laundering in the legal or technical sense. We can talk about risky non-residents business and controlling that risk. Now, in principle, the place of the decision is either by law or by financial supervision policy to calibrate how powerful risk controls we require of banks. In fact, how much they have to control their customers, especially foreign customers, non-residents, determines how active they can be in relation to foreign customers at all. In principle, we can or you can decide by law that credit institutions operating in Estonia cannot have any so-called correspondent relationships. I do not know whether it would be in the interests of Estonian society, whether it would be in the interests of Estonian business. I tend to think not. Is this about some dynamic, including the development of the legal framework? Again, I'll come back to my report. 2012 the FATF standards were introduced; it is an international organisation established under the G7 framework. This framework has also been in progress. After all, the previous speaker, who gave a good presentation, described how the international environment and its risks have always changed. Similarly, this framework is changing. In this sense, my recommendation is... There were a few more. I guess I have a chance to say it now, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U110	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U111	Thank you. One thing is that in Estonia you could think about and do it, not just think about a central analysis centre, a strategic analysis centre for money laundering. In fact, the law states that this function should be performed by the Financial Intelligence Unit, but I think he should be more enforced. He's got, I understand, a little lack of ability on this subject. As our financial supervisor, in any case, we would very much support this process, because I believe it would certainly enrich and strengthen our actions as well. That's the one thing we may have missed. On the other hand, this again ties in with the previous speaker's presentation of the international dimension, the European Union dimension. I and the Financial Supervision Authority are completely unanimous in the view that the European Union needs a specific authority to be responsible for the prevention of money laundering. This would perhaps allow for better cross-border exchange of information, which would allow better measurement of the quality of the activities of the various parties involved. Remember, this is what I said here, the Financial Supervision Authority, after all, is subject to the same EBA, or EBA, quality control. They are going to assess whether our actions are of sufficient quality. A similar process might perhaps be wise to apply to FIUs, not only in Estonia, but I speak generally within the framework of the European Union. These are such thoughts and suggestions in the light of your question. This question is very complex, very broad. I am also willing to discuss this subject further, if you would like.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U112	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! When the Financial Supervision Authority conducted an investigation into Danske and other banks in 2014, no one was fined as a result of the detection of irregularities. You yourself have said that the penalty rate was too low, EUR 32000 was a ceiling, and it did not make any sense. But now the law has been amended, the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act allows administrative coercion and fine-fixing. I am not talking at all about criminal matters; this is a much more complicated issue; I am talking about administrative fines and coercion in a situation where banks have not complied with the rules, have not complied with the rules, have not implemented anti-money laundering measures. How many times have you imposed a fine under the new rules and how much have these amounts been?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U114	Thank you very much. The first thing right now is that the fine you referred to is now probably 400,000. It's quite a story. Thank you very much for this, it is a step in the right direction, and I think it must not stop. The directive provides for slightly different rates; this work must be continued. This is once again a long story about deterrence, how to build up the deterrent system. Now for the money from the coercion. You see, coercive money is such a thing as simply the background to Mr Sõerdi's question, that financial supervision makes a precept that you, for example a bank, clean up your organization and if you do not, then the Financial Supervision Authority can decide on the amount of coercive money in terms of x or y. That's what we're talking about. Our practice shows that at least as effective as coercive money is a risk of losing a licence. In fact, in most financial sector laws, failure to comply with the Financial Supervision Authority's injunction is contingent on the fact that it may constitute a stand-alone basis for the withdrawal of an authorisation. I will give you an example of Versobank. Versobank did not comply with our injunction and not just because of it, but, among other things, because of it, the European Central Bank revoked its authorisation. So this is a complex of measures. Every time, the prism of proportionality must be reviewed, the prism of specific circumstances must be examined as to whether the enforcement money is to be imposed and the extent to which it can be determined or solved by other means. We at the Financial Supervision Authority agree that we are trying to solve problems for Estonian society as quickly as possible, as efficiently as possible and at the same time risk-free. These are the different elements that we must consider each time and make these decisions in monitoring.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U115	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U116	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, How many times has the Financial Supervision Authority specifically addressed our financial institutions during this period with proposals and precepts? Here's the other part of the question. Here it was heard that the Danish State was very bravely defending its financial institutions. Shouldn't our Estonian state be more active in defending its institutions? For example, it has not been heard today that our bar Association is included in order to protect the interests of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U117	Thank you for your question, good member of the Riigikogu. Basically, there were two questions, firstly, whether the Financial Supervision Authority is protecting the interests of the Estonian state and Estonian society, and secondly, how much supervision we have done in the first place. The number of monitoring activities should in some way be included in our yearbooks. But I assure you, there will be hundreds of these operations a year, I think even more. These are requests for information, these are on-the-spot checks. This work is continuous, this work is quite complex and it is clear that our people are not so-called hibernating. In fact, it is also the answer to the second question whether we are defending our society. Yes, of course. We apply the law, we do it every day by applying the law. It's one of our leading thoughts. In the interests of the Estonian state and Estonian society, the same institution that I run is operating.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U118	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U119	Good manager! Good waitress! In spring, after "The Moon Investigator," Swedbank said that it had never run an investment company in Romania, so-called essentially. However, on 15 June, the manager of Swedbank's Romanian investment company, Kaie Trump, wrote on the ERR portal that the bank was directly involved in managing investments in Romania and confirmed that it also held e-mails proving this. The question is whether the Financial Supervision Authority has taken reference e-mails to check whether the bank's claims are true. What has your supervised inspection done after turning to disappointed bond buyers, and what has been the inspection's activities in overseeing the Guild Investment Bank, which has been convicted of a crime?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U120	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu! There were so many questions, I'm trying to start somewhere. The first thing is that you referred to a dispute between Swedbank and certain investors. As we know, there is a dispute going on and I think it would be quite wrong to start settling litigation in this Chamber. I understand that the next performer, the attorney-at-law, is the representative of either the party or the group of parties in the dispute you are asking about. My ethics, in this sense, are somewhat reluctant to start dissecting a particular dispute in Parliament. As far as the rules of law are concerned, they are very unambiguous. This was also asked, that is the confidentiality of financial supervision. To all the questions concerning the specific subject of financial supervision, what we have done there, I cannot respond specifically on grounds of confidentiality.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U121	Thank you, Kilvar Kessler! Time's up. The next waitress is attorney-at-law Maria Mägi-Rohtmets. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U122	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to discuss a problem as important as the stability and transparency of the financial market in this beautiful Chamber of yours. Indeed, the question has arisen as to why I am here before you as a lawyer and not another expert in financial market law. But as you have already heard, the fact is that for more than ten years I have represented the weakest players in the financial market, those are financial market clients and investors. The fact is, too, that it is almost like the wisdom of the old nation that the weakest link in the chain determines the strength of this chain. So there is no point in making any complaints that I, as a representative of investors and financial market clients, will be talking to you here today. What Mr Kessler said was a theory. I'll tell you about the internship. Of course, the Danske bank case is extremely deplorable, and it would be better for all of us if it hadn't been. But there is something good about every bad thing, too, because, as we know and we see now, this unfortunate case has led politicians, members of society, bank employees and employees of the Financial Supervision Authority to think about the credibility and transparency of the financial market. But surely you also have the question of whether the right in this area is in place and whether the right that you have created is sufficient to ensure proper and fair supervision of the financial market. I can say that, yes, the right is mostly in place, one can complain that, as always, there is no right for all those who should follow it and who could find support in any way, it is quite clear. Indeed, I would very much like the wording to be better for reasons of legal clarity. All the more so as legislation in this area has been subject to very close changes in the period under review, from 2007 to today, and several provisions have either been repealed or have been amended several times. But when it comes to the impact of Danske Bank on the credibility and reputation of our country, it is not right to say that there is no such effect. This effect is and is clearly harmful. Social scientists have already acquired the ability to calculate losses from social conflicts. But that's probably what's gonna happen. A month ago, my client from England called me and complained that he had a prepared real estate purchase transaction, that everything had been exactly negotiated, that he had been given forms, and that he went to sign the contract and presented his passport, but when he looked at the passport, the representative of the other side of the contract was stiffened and said: "You are from Estonia, you are an Estonian citizen. We can't make a deal with you, it's money laundering. " We worked for two weeks to get an Estonian citizen in England to make the desired deal, but the wound remained in his heart. Unfortunately, this example is not the only one. Whether or not our reputation has been scratched internationally. Was our supervision of Danske effective between 2007 and 2015? Of course, I am of the opinion that this was not effective. Yes, for a certain period, our Financial Supervision Authority did not have the power to control the activities of the branch with the zeal and scope of the ordinary bank operating here, but, given the possibility of international cooperation and the right to agree with the financial supervision of the bank's parent bank, it would have been possible to carry out full financial supervision. This is particularly necessary where there is a reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence may have been committed or committed, i.e. money laundering, which is a serious criminal offence, or there is a suspicion that it will be contributed. There is no situation that could hinder our right to intervene in crimes committed in our own country, which would provide an opportunity not to interfere with them. However, financial market supervision is not just a national issue. It starts first and foremost from within the banks, and its regularity can also be used to assess the credibility and transparency of the banks. The very important objective of financial supervision is to prevent or contribute to the exploitation of the financial sector for criminal purposes, but the most important thing is to protect the interests of financial market clients and investors in the preservation of funds and thereby support the stability of the Estonian monetary system. As I said at the outset, I am the representative of many financial market clients and investors. Of course, a very important national problem is that our financial market does not guarantee the preservation of the assets and resources of financial market clients and investors. Indeed, we have at least two such cases in public. One of them has been specifically accused of a crime, the first case of an investment mishap that was committed by a conviction. How much support did we get from the Financial Supervision Authority? In 2007, EUR 16 million went through a bond issue to Azerbaijan, not to the most reliable financial market zone. This is not a case that gets no attention. This is not a traditional investment service. As this did not stand out at all at the time, it is, of course, extremely regrettable, but it is even more regrettable that as a result, all our investors lost money. We're talking about money laundering on the Danske bank case today. But we have to ask ourselves whether the clean money of our investors is not being washed elsewhere in the country and whether we are still looking for it, as the Russian State is now looking for the money of its market participants elsewhere, i.e. it is said that it has been through here. Are we careful enough about our own country's investors' money? Today, cross-border investments in 2007 have returned with virtually zero. But the victims gave themselves a statement to initiate a criminal case and the case was initiated. The Public Prosecutor's Office asked the Financial Supervision Authority, as an expert, for an assessment of the legality of carrying out this bond issue, i.e. whether it could have been an investment fraud. But it was with Mr Kessler's signature that the answer came from the Financial Supervision Authority that, no, there is no need for criminal proceedings here, because everything about this bond issue is right. Despite this, the Public Prosecutor's Office continued the proceedings. Kessler, a leading officer of the Financial Supervision Authority, was applied for as a witness in criminal proceedings with the wish to acquit the subject of financial supervision, Gild FAS, a defender of Gild FAS. Later, he did, indeed, waive this request, but he would hardly have made such a request if he had not had the expectation that his legitimate interests would be protected. However, the Court ruled that both Gild FAS and several natural persons were guilty of investment fraud and was jointly and severally sentenced to EUR 13 million. This money has not been seen by investors because the Financial Supervision Authority granted Gild FAS as an investment firm's application to terminate the licence at the time of criminal proceedings. As a result, Gild FAS became a normal company and all reserves were released. This money was paid out to the owners themselves during criminal proceedings and Gild FAS went bankrupt. We know that, at a time when creditors have claims against an institution, the licence must not be terminated. But that's what happened to us. Then, according to the State Liability Act, we had to file a complaint against the State to the Administrative Court through the Financial Supervision Authority. Two court grades found that the claim was not outdated, but the Supreme Court found that the claim had expired. A substantive discussion on whether the State has infringed the law and whether the State is concerned, in particular because of its inaction, that the damage has occurred, was not involved. Smiling Kessler told the press we won. My question is, who won? Why is it that one of the main objectives of the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority, to protect the preservation of financial market participants, clients and investors, was clearly not met? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U123	Thank you. Questions for the waitress. Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U124	Mr. Chairman! Thank you very much, waitress and attorney-at-law. I'm glad you gave me that reputation. I asked about the reputation, too. The paintings have already been damaged, and we can only improve it by examining this matter as thoroughly as possible, from a higher political level to the supervisory bodies. The second thing you pointed out was right versus right and fair decisions and supervision. That's where my question comes from. If you had been able to change something or make proposals, which are the two or three things that should be changed in the country, so that bad things such as prowling with cross-border bonds, money laundering and many others would have gone away, and we should not be looking at them sadly today, what would they have been? How do we rule out such things or take them to the minimum, because we probably can't rule them out?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U125	Thank you for your question. It is perhaps not the right thing to discuss what could have been. But what should be considered in the future? Once again, I think that our financial market regulation is quite good. Of course, it is harmonised through the European Union and international law, but we have not invented much ourselves here, but it is always a question of enforcement. I think that we should not just accept that we are filling in some form, but that we should want more, that the execution is meaningful. Thought also produces a sense of feeling. The fact that we are simply getting some sort of bird letter that we did this or this kind of monitoring exercise does not fulfil much of the objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U126	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U127	Good President! Good waitress! You talk a lot about transparency in the financial world. From my point of view, the Financial Supervision Authority is one of the most opaque institutions in Estonia at all. This is an organisation whose activities cannot be verified by the National Audit Office, declarations of interest are not required by the managers and they receive their financial resources from those they control. Do you share the view that this organisation should become significantly more transparent? The other half of the question: as a lawyer, do you think that the Estonian state or the Estonian government should ask Danske Bank for compensation for the damage to Estonia's reputation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U128	Thank you, Mr. Talvik. That's a good question. On transparency: yes, it is in line with international standards; on the other hand, it is also possible to make this decision at national level. Our financial supervision side has chosen a culture of secrecy selectively. I believe that this is not quite right, because the confidentiality of financial market regulation has not come from the interests of financial market subjects, but is due in particular to the need to preserve the secrets of clients and investors, plus, yes, the need to preserve the business secrets of banks, investment firms and other financial market subjects. I do not agree, yes, also that all the results of the supervision activities of the Financial Supervision Authority should be confidential. Neither does the Court of Justice. It was just this year that the Court found that every person must have the right to receive documents from the Financial Supervision Authority that apply to him or her, as well as the same § 54 of the Financial Supervision Authority Act, which Mr Kessler mentioned here, has brought in a party of public interest, which should give a wider opportunity to open information precisely because of the important public interest. After all, though, all things are based on the principle of reasonableness. We cannot want very specific data on individual individuals to be made public, but we would expect much more analyses, assessments and important results that society still needs to know. It would also achieve a deeper understanding of the financial market at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U129	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U130	Thank you for this presentation. You mentioned that our legal order basically provides a pretty good framework for both the control and supervision of financial institutions. At the same time, you do not consider this monitoring to be effective for some reason. If you look at it from the legislator's side, I have the question that, as a result, certain obligations are clearly not imposed on supervisory institutions, or that doing too many things is left to their own choice. What could be your opinion on how the work of our monitoring organisations could be made more effective to give them clearer legal obligations to carry out certain activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U131	Thank you for your question. I will stick to the fact that when we talk about the Financial Supervision Authority, it can be said that the law has quite well formulated its objectives and its purposeful obligations, and it also has all the means to fulfil these obligations and achieve them. But it is very difficult for me to say exactly how the Financial Supervision Authority is fulfilling its supervisory responsibilities, because, as I answered the questioner, most of it is completely confidential. We wouldn't have known much about the Financial Supervision Authority as a state institution if it wasn't for this Danske case. Before Mr. Ligi said that I was one of the lawyers who was opposed to the Financial Supervision Authority. No, that is not the case, because I have not yet had any appeal proceedings with the Financial Supervision Authority. I have gotten, indeed, from there, such writings that financial supervision cannot be required, but that supervision is the law of the Financial Supervision Authority. That's what I'm arguing about. This is the case with all law enforcement agencies, in fact it is also the case with all supervisory institutions, it is a general principle that, if there is sufficient reason to suspect that there is something wrong with the authority's area of competence, particularly if there is some kind of criminal collusion or similar, then there is an obligation to initiate supervision proceedings. It is not right that the Financial Supervision Authority only talks about its right to initiate supervision. But this Financial Supervision Authority is not at all peculiar in this respect, we in Estonia formed that it actually belongs to Eesti Pank by law and is an autonomous institution there. The composition of its supervisory board is this: three members, proposed by the Minister of Finance, and three members by Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U132	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Maria Mägi! You referred in your speech to the fact that the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority are aimed at protecting the transparency of banks rather than bank customers and, more generally, the financial system. Let me get this straight. Do you see the blame here for any law, financial model of the Financial Supervision Authority, or anything else?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U134	Thank you for your question. [[Laughing.]] I don't see the guilt of any law here. When you read the Financial Supervision Authority Act, you can see very specific objectives. I repeat: first and foremost, the interest of clients and investors must be protected in order to preserve their resources and thereby support the stability of the Estonian monetary system. I have heard the opinions that the stability of the Estonian financial market means holding banks and other credit institutions, not making any public accusations to them, but the law says otherwise. Stability is when our financial market clients and investors are satisfied because their funds in credit institutions are preserved. But it's a question of financial market culture, or choice. It doesn't come from the law. This choice has been made at some point and has been followed. It has also been decided by the same choice that our financial market has a culture of secrecy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U135	Hardi Volmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Since we have already moved on to the financial supervisory authorities, it is actually, I hope, my question relatively relevant. This is one of the cases at issue when, I do not know, nearly or more than 200 bona fide investors' money vanished somewhere between Romanian agricultural areas. One of the good faith victims described the situation in a court where a representative of that credit institution claimed that the bank's own bond documents had not been preserved. I, as a common citizen, develop a serious appalling state and such a cafca absurd state. How is such a thing possible, can you describe it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U137	Thank you for your question. Here earlier, Mr Kessler said that the dispute over the damage caused by the Romanian bond issue was in court, and therefore he did not consider it ethical to stop at this issue. I can tell you that today I came from the district court hearing. The insolvency administrator has brought an action against Swedbank and is demanding no more than EUR 10+ million, as the total amount of money collected in 2007 in the issue with Swedbank's participation, which belonged to almost 200 investors, has disappeared. The dispute over the preservation of documents has ended in court proceedings and I can therefore answer you. Yes, Swedbank has submitted a notification in three legal proceedings that it does not have the required documents from the 2006-2009 period, they have not survived, they were, but they have not survived. Consequently, an internal decision has been taken to destroy them. The Supreme Court has taken the view that documents that no longer exist cannot, of course, be demanded. How, however, has it become possible that the bank has not retained the documents relating to the continued provision of the bank's contractual service? After all, the bank continues to represent certain customers, defending their interests in relation to Romanian bonds. Such information has also been publicly available in the press, in my opinion in the spring of this year. Indeed, I am of the opinion that since there is a specific requirement that documents must not be destroyed in a bank or credit institution until the disputes relating to these documents have been brought to an end, it is within the remit of the Financial Supervision Authority to carry out a supervisory procedure for the destruction of documents relating to ongoing disputes. But I don't know anything about it until today. More than a month ago, I asked the Financial Supervision Authority. I didn't get any answers. Earlier, when I have submitted applications and applications to the Financial Supervision Authority, I have received a very short reply quite quickly, the same as I mentioned earlier here that the Financial Supervision Authority cannot be required to supervise, that supervision is its right. But now I haven't even had that answer. I'm looking forward to it. This is a question that there is no ongoing litigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U138	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U139	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good performer! I'm sorry I couldn't ask the previous speaker several questions, but these are the rules. I will return to the subject of your story and previous reports. Jaanus Karilaid has already said that we have, like, different walls of defence to prevent money laundering and there are many of them, one of them is "banking" (Estonian Bank and the Financial Supervision Authority), it involves law enforcement authorities, the public prosecutor's office, then there are security authorities who should deal with it, and then there is a special government office. They all have to deal with the prevention of money laundering in one way or another, and they are not dependent on each other in the sense that if one fails to do something, the other cannot do anything. We have a saying that whoever wants to find a way who doesn't want to find an excuse. I hear how we do not have a legal framework all the time. You're a lawyer. In my opinion, we have all the laws we need to do something, money laundering data offices can put money away every day. Is it really the case that we do not have any laws and that we should start making new laws now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U140	Thank you for your question. In part, I've already answered that. I think we have all the laws. Above all, we have proper legal baggage for this purpose, it is a generality, that whoever notices the signs of crime should make a notification to the appropriate body. In the case of money laundering, this requirement to detect pre-crime is somewhat problematic, but it has also been a bit advanced. Currently, as far as I know, this is the Riigikogu's reverse verification procedure, where the burden of proof goes to the owner of the money who would like to make some kind of transfer. As I mentioned earlier, of course our country's reputation for the Danske scandal has been damaged. I do not think that our country's reputation is also affected by the fact that so many investors have to defend their rights in court. However, it is also regrettable if we really should find proof that money laundering of $230 billion was being done in our country, but we did not stick to this money at all. In fact, the procedure provides that money laundering is to be confiscated into the budget of the country where this money laundering has been committed. I have no idea at the moment whether and how much we have to expect in the state budget with regard to Danske's long-term money laundering operations, but we should still, if all the bodies and supervisors have done the right thing, get something out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U141	Thank you, Attorney-at-Law Maria Mägi-Rohtmets! I'm opening negotiations. On the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will then make sure that the representatives of the political groups first take the floor in the negotiations. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! If you start with the summary, then the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority is as if the accused of money laundering. The reality is that the Financial Supervision Authority was now quoting the current Minister of Finance, although I suspect he quoted me, but that is what he said ahead of the time from here and the only institution that has effectively blocked money laundering in Estonia. I will stick to the fact that the Financial Supervision Authority did at times when I was the chairman of the Council, and has also done a very good job since then, and he has finished the thing that is currently being accused of being a graduate. There have been several attempts today to give the inspection the role of police; in a very awkward way, they have also tried to drag him into a civil dispute. The lost half of the lawyer has been brought here to speak something abstractly. I didn't understand for a long time, but it was finally decided that the Financial Supervision Authority was guilty of something. However, fraud or closed issuances are not the responsibility of the Financial Supervision Authority as a systemic supervisor; it cannot deal effectively with such matters. If anyone wants to look for state responsibility on these matters, talk to the police. I would like to remind you that the cases that are being carried here have been increasingly lost, and the Financial Supervision Authority has not been a part of them, nor has it been a loser. The definition of money laundering in general has become increasingly harsh in the world, especially in 2014, apart from Crimea, when Russian money was really systematically sought in the framework of anti-Russian sanctions. I was fortunate last to be Chairman of this Council in 2014 and I will stick to the fact that we were able to act at the right time, as much as was possible at the time, and Estonia is not in the end a money laundering country. The hideous nature of this debate today is also that nothing was really said about what the situation is, nothing was said about what regulations are. At the very end, it was repeated several times that there was nothing behind the regulations that there were laws. This, by the way, also gives an alibi to the Minister for Finance, who actually wanted to make a few fines bigger, I'm talking about myself right now, but he got into disputes with the Ministry of Justice. Now it is probably coming to the Riigikogu. But the Minister of Finance didn't put this thing behind him, and he didn't stay behind the Financial Supervision Authority. Speaking of the nature of the OTRK: for the second time, the Committee on Legal Affairs is carrying financial matters in which it has, first of all, no competence, but, above all, no conscience. It is presented by commenting on some of the things that have ended in the past when dirt has come from Russia, crime or at least ugliness has come from Russia, Russia has taken money, or the Russians have washed money, but not once has Jaanus Karlai mentioned Russia's role, but he has always accused specific institutions, specific politicians, even by name, from the beginning. Russia has only touched on this key, as if Russia had asked us for legal aid. Actually, it was the other way around. All my knowledge of the Financial Supervision Authority was that Russia did not cooperate. In those cases, when he really sent some letters, he did not send them to the Minister of Finance or the Inspectorate. His partner was the police, the financial intelligence office or the prosecutor's office, who exchanged letters with him, but it was all one-sided: Russia wanted to get somebody, but it didn't share any information. From the side of the systemic risk, no aid came from Russia. But, of course, the Centre Party, Jaanus Karilaid, always willing to stand up for Russia and have a bag of their own. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U143	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U144	It started with Karilaid trying to make a special commission. Luckily, they laughed at the idea, but before he got the answer, he already knew who this special committee had to blame. One of them is the talker here. In the course of this, of course, it turned out that, unfortunately, I represented this successful institution. This accusation began to fall apart, but nevertheless, this whole conversation today is extremely embarrassing. Nothing is said about the police who actually investigates crimes, all the time talking about the Financial Supervision Authority, who, I repeat, was ahead of time. Even the Wall Street Journal has finally written about how difficult it was for the Estonians to make it clear to the Danes how the Danes were even shouted at in that room and how the Danish Financial Inspectorate did not carry out the transport for years, even though Estonia did dictate to the Danske branch, and how Danske did not take the transport. It should have been today's story here, and we should have dealt with what Estonia has done right and what it could do even better. We didn't actually hear that. The Financial Supervision Authority issued precepts since 2007, he made precepts to Danske. In 2009, the situation had improved, in 2012 and 2013, as has been said today, the Financial Supervision Authority was essentially misled. In 2014, the Financial Supervision Authority went and kicked the door open, according to the law, in fact it was debatable whether it had this competence and ended the matter in essence. Today I would have liked to hear something about it, because what this Committee on Legal Affairs discussed for months, if not what has been done and what could be done better. We could not have known any regulation that the Committee on Legal Affairs would have come up with, even though this could be its competence. We stress that this is a Danish bank that works under a Danish licence, and it is not really the way that Estonians can simply break into it. All they can do is write letters, they can only do precepts, and they can deal with systemic risk, which is to say, risk control. They do not deal with the interests of specific customers, not to mention the interests of a particular party. All Danes' supervision arose years later, not because of some whistleblower alone, but simply because things got so big and became so obvious. I am very sorry that the Estonian institutions have not defended Estonia's reputation, but have only tried to pull it down here. But what President Kaljulaid said was totally inappropriate when he put Denmark and Estonia together. In no way has Jüri Ratas said from this remote, but you were in power. However, I do applaud the fact that Ardo Hansson has recently spoken and said who has done it, and the Minister of Finance, Tõniste, deserves praise because he has still defended one institution. However, when we are talking about a debate on a matter of national importance, we should be talking about the system, not about the individual guilty people who are party-elected, and we should be talking about the regulations that are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U145	Wait, please! Dear Riigikogu, the procedural issue must be resolved before time runs out. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to extend the time of today's sitting until this item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 31 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no one opposed, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. The session has been extended until this item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U146	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really sorry that Jürgen Ligi made the big hall crash, because that's exactly what I came here to disprove. I felt like it was the spirit of the ESSR because a person was always talking about Russia here. I don't know if Jürgen Ligi has the dream that Russia will build our defences and strengthen our law enforcement system. Totally wrong expectation. The spirit of this age, where Jürgen still wants to be, is completely wrong. We don't want to point the finger at the officials. Officials operate in a room drawn by politicians. That is why Parliament is here. We set the rules of the game and the rules of the fair game. The fair game was not cultivated during the leadership of the Reform Party. You can smile, you can giggle on your own if you want, but you didn't. The facts show that, in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, suspicious cash flows were extremely high. Now trying to show off the fact that something was done in 2014 and 2015. Why so slow? Is there a lack of administrative capacity? Is the quality of political governance unsatisfactory? That's the question. Parliament is a political body. He shall exercise political supervision. We will certainly not intervene in criminal proceedings, where the prosecutor's office, the central criminal police and the courts have a role to play. But we can assess whether or not our political levels worked within the limits of their competence, whether or not the heart was at stake. I'll get you a fact. As early as 2006, an anti-money laundering commission was set up with the Government of the Republic. During 2009-2014, Jürgen Ligi, the Minister of Finance, was chairman of this committee, and only one of the 15 Commission working sessions took part. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, he stated that he had attended everyone, because he was always replaced by a replacement. So the fact that he was physically present only once and was only interested in the agenda and the content of the sitting was not an argument for him. He still had the nerve to claim that he attended all the meetings because the chancellor or the deputy chancellor was there for him. This shows that this issue was not taken seriously. Coming here to ridicule the President of the Republic of Estonia in order to be the President of the Republic of Estonia in improper behavior, so that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia has behaved improperly, I do not know, it continues to remind me of the beginning of my story that it is desired that someone in the office of the Reform Party should write ready points of discussion, how to think and what to say, and what is the right way to think and what is wrong thinking. Such an ECB attitude has indeed entered the Reform Party. Today's article by Igor Gräzini, a member of the party in which he mentions that the Reform Party has moved towards bolshevism, shows that the crisis in the Reform Party is world-view and deep. Waiting for what? I don't think the political struggle would have gotten so fierce if the Extortion Minister had said one sentence: 'Yes, we weren't able to pay enough attention to it, yes, we didn't have the capacity, yes, we are making a correction. " I don't think the political struggle would have gotten into that kind of confrontation. However, unfortunately, this self-criticism is not to be expected after today's speech by Jürgen. The Committee on Legal Affairs will continue the hearings and we will certainly make our proposals on both the administrative system and legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U147	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U148	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe back up a little bit and still paint us a wallpaper. More than 200 billion euros passed through Estonia for about ten years; this money is either criminal, mafia or terrorist. That's the money, 200 billion. What kind of walls did we have to stop this money laundering? We have, by the way, a whole bunch of European Union regulations and directives against it. Looks like they're working really well. We have a Financial Inspectorate for this, whose role and, let us say, its competence have been discussed here at an even more abstract level. Eesti Pank has a very clear role, we have a Financial Intelligence Unit, which operates under the authority of the police, and we have a prosecutor's office, and we also have a special government commission. In addition, we have two intelligence bodies: the kapo and the Foreign Intelligence Board, which are responsible for preventing Russian intelligence activities in Estonia. As came out of today's reports, the black money that moved from Russia to Estonia was linked to the Russian special services. Everyone slept on their posts, for ten years they slept on their posts. Now they're pointing fingers at each other. It is not true that there has been no predicament. It's been a predicament. The DA's office has received legal aid requests both from the East and the West. There have been reports of a crime to the prosecutor's office. It is not true that there is nothing the FIU can do. The FIU can freeze or confiscate any amount at any time, no matter how small or large. If they wanted to, something could have been done. For ten years, nothing was done. And then Jürgen Ligi comes and says that everything was done well, we successfully fought money laundering, there is no money laundering problem in Estonia, everything is fine, we are still a spectacle stone. I mean, I'm sorry, it's a delirious text, it has nothing to do with reality. I don't want to go along with the fact that we only beat one person or that there's only one person responsible. I want to say exactly the opposite that those responsible are full of landscapes. There are dozens of people who should have acted. The fact that they did not act on such a visible problem for such a long time can lead to some very horrible conclusions. One possibility: our law enforcement, security and financial supervision structures are completely rotten, corrupt, paid off. Another option: people are intimidated, maybe people have been executed in the course of this money laundering, and everyone is scared. Anyway, we can't keep saying it went like it did, we'll do better in the future. When we talk about reputational damage, the only way to improve reputation is to light up who knew and why they didn't act, why they didn't avoid it, why they didn't do anything more. On the contrary, we know that in 2014 there was a passing through this hall, but this was hidden by the amendment of the Penal Code of the Cohabitation Act, during which more than a hundred improvements were made, including a number of mitigations in the fight against money laundering crimes. Perhaps while it was at its top, we had a legislative amendment from the Ministry of Justice, which eased and reduced our responsibility. Again, if anyone comes to tell me it was a coincidence, please don't insult my intelligence. For the Financial Supervision Authority, that's what I'd say. If we hear here that they couldn't do anything, then the simple question arises: Danske Bank can be a branch and be subject to the Danish Financial Supervision Authority for supervisory purposes, but the license was issued by who? (Comment from the floor: "Denmark... ") No, I didn't. The licence is issued in Estonia by supervision of Estonia. That's right. And if we couldn't go in there in 2007, 2008 or 2010, but in 2013 we did, something about it doesn't add up. Once again, I do not want to say that one institution or one person alone is responsible, and I would like to say that all these so-called bulwarks failed. The result is that the Estonian state is a failed state on the issue of money laundering, financial supervision. Everyone's first reaction to this shame is to pretend nothing happened. I'm sorry, this is not the solution, all the more so because this black money is probably poisoning our political system and our entire law enforcement system on a very large scale. Such inaction and abandonment of due diligence cannot happen without the clear role of corruption. This corruption must be eradicated, exposed, punished and deterred from public life and public service. You have to roll your heads if you have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U149	Well, the Hatter... Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry! Jürgen Ligi's name was named, he has the right to object.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U150	Thank you. The previous speaker disgraced me in a name, and I'm going to get rid of one fact first. Danske's branch was authorised by the Danish central bank, sorry, financial inspectorate. So it's a very clear Danish competence, it could always be remembered by an honest waitress. But there weren't too many honest ones here. Secondly, when I said that the Financial Supervision Authority or financial supervision did a good job, I could rely on two figures, for example. First of all, cross-border remittances did not actually point to money laundering; their overall weight was quite average compared to other countries in the European Union. What was above average was non-residents' deposits. There is this systemic risk that the Financial Supervision Authority is really looking after. However, the success story of financial supervision was that this business also ended after 2014 and 2015 when it closed down. So I will stick to myself: financial supervision worked very well, crime monitoring has not done so well, but no one has been convicted either. Once again, I regret that our format does not allow substantive negotiations, not everything can be said in the form of a report. But thank you for this opportunity!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U151	On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U152	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs has really been of the opinion that we need to talk about the money laundering scandal as such at the level of the Estonian state and in this Chamber. But the distorted truth about the Commission's work that Karilaid has presented here today is disgusting. Is this a fair game? It's not a fair game. The members of the Committee on Legal Affairs are treated here as puppets. I absolutely disagree with that. The chairman of the committee also failed to understand the issues and brought here a rather political dimension, which the external expert asked us not to do. The question of which political parties and politicians in or outside Estonia have received so-called black money through Danske Bank was not answered. However, money has moved this way to the right number of European politicians from several countries and political parties. That's what Karilaid would have known. The political groups have been asked on several occasions for input that if we are dealing with the issue of money laundering, what is the focus that the Committee on Legal Affairs should focus on? The Free Party Group has repeatedly highlighted the issues that the Committee on Legal Affairs should answer, even in the same example of Danske Bank. This directly affects the work of the Riigikogu, not the role of the Riigikogu as a research institution, which is not possible. Several hearings that started on 31 July, the summer of this year's Commission has been regularly together, so many rapporteurs have pointed out problems, but we have not even been able to map these problems in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'll try to bring them out. What are the questions that the Riigikogu should discuss in the Committee on Legal Affairs and elsewhere? There is talk of a reversed burden of proof. This has been discussed since the beginning of the year, but so far the government has not been able to come up with a proposal. I understand the problem is getting stuck. But why are we, as legislators, not discussing this initiative and the legal side of it, but waiting again for the government's proposal? We know it's stretching again. We have a problem with our criminal proceedings being ineffective. What are the measures that we can help to make it effective? The problems are again in international cooperation, information flow, data exchange. Let's be honest and basically clear about whether we can help here and move something forward. Interagency affairs: The Financial Inspectorate, the Financial Intelligence Unit and the Public Prosecutor's Office have all pointed out that there have been successively different practices since 2007 and the flow of information has changed. But are we able to improve the exchange of information, the use of resources? The issue has been the question of developing know-how and the legal framework on this issue, and it is multiplied, as has been pointed out here today once today, that there is a need to increase analytical capacity. We're running the state budget again, but it's empty because we're not talking about things in substance. It is said that there is a need to clarify an investigation, even in terms of the institution, in order to make the money laundering issue even more specific. Sorry, I'd like to point my finger at the members of the Riigikogu who were already sitting in this Chamber. Money laundering has been a crime since 2008, we are only talking about this practice for the last ten years. Well, sorry, this is a long-term practice of the Soviet regime that we are trying to ease here. Punishment policy is too lenient, and penal policy measures are purely the subject of this hall. We've been too slow again, and we don't want to deal with it. The issue of making supervision of banks more effective has also repeatedly emerged in discussions, the introduction of reporting, i.e. the existence and improvement of an effective system of risk controls. It is increasingly pointed out that the role of the Ministry of Finance in creating the whole picture has been passive. Again, we, the legislator, do not review the activities of the executive, even though this is our task. The issue of the obligation to provide information should be reviewed. Is it really that we can only react if there is a signal coming from somewhere? Why can't we act when, for example, we have an interest in ourselves or when we need to go check it out? I'm going to add the requirements and deadlines here. We have never been able to speak in the Commission about the domestic problem of black money, as it were avoided. The Free Party has consistently proposed that experts should be involved. I also mention what the chairman of the committee promised us at the meeting on 17 September that the Commission would make proposals at the end of October or at the beginning of November. We haven't gotten to that today. We have a question today, which is the message of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on behalf of the Commission. There has been no answer to that. It's like we're in a dark bag when we're talking about the Commission's work. That is why I feel that money laundering as a problem we need to talk about, but we cannot talk about it as an example of political laundry that leads to emotions. As you can see, it also leads to my emotions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U153	Raivo Time on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U154	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's getting a little embarrassing in this hall today because it's going to be a competition that can name its country more. There was no surprise in the EKRE's position in this respect, but it was embarrassing to listen to it. There is definitely a problem and there is a need to speak openly and openly about it. But today, I think it is too early and premature to focus on one particular case that we are talking about here (I am talking about this very Danske case), because we are talking more about what we know, but we do not know what we are talking about at times. We know that something has happened, but to exactly what extent something has happened and whose fault something has happened, it has remained a lot blurry to us. This blurry must, in the end, be reflected in the procedure, which also takes place within the framework of international cooperation. Perhaps when these procedural data are available to us, it is the right time to return to the evaluation of the particular case and begin to run out of stamps, who is responsible for what and who has failed to do something. At the same time, money laundering, as such, is certainly an extremely serious crime, it is particularly detrimental to the international reputation and competitiveness of the country. The state must contribute to curbing money laundering as one of the very important types of crime and, if possible, to preventing it. We have been debating today, and also several months earlier, on the subject of this very country's responsibility and on the basis of a specific case. But what can the state do and where is the responsibility of the state? What can the state do? The state can, in particular, guarantee the capacity to provide tools to discourage and combat this type of crime. First of all, it includes shaping legal policy attitudes, the importance the state attaches to dealing with one or another of the crimes, to eradicating one or another of the evils, to preventing it, to preventing it. It is the duty of the State to set up national structures and provide them with the means to be able to carry out their task. There are a lot of them, but when we talk about money laundering, they are primarily the Financial Intelligence Unit, as well as the Financial Supervision Authority, as well as different networks of cooperation. The legal framework means that there must be laws which are a tool in the hands of the same national institutions and structures and which can contain the problem. In this sense, there is nothing strange or peculiar about it. This framework or the creation of laws is in some ways lagging behind the "progress" of crime, that is, in every area of crime. Crime always moves ahead, and the state with its legal framework comes along, because if we did the opposite, we would be talking about a totalitarian society, then we would be talking about a police state, anything. On the other hand, this is also not possible, because we need to know what the state wants to contain and to what extent. As I said, this is the case for financial crimes, economic crimes, organised crimes and drug crimes, there is always a reaction in essence afterwards, but it must be as immediate, flexible and effective as possible. It is important that the progress of crime towards the country is not too long and too effective. Of course, building an international cooperation network is also a function of the state... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U155	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U156	... and sustaining it, and also internally. However, an international cooperation network can be effective if all partners fulfil their obligations. But if we now come back to this case, it must be said that the Russian Federation is certainly not a fair partner in the international cooperation landscape. Of course, if certain types of crime are nationally favoured, nationalised or publicly supported somewhere, this country will not participate as an equal partner of other countries in preventing or combating the same type of crime. The law has already been mentioned here today. It is this imposed burden of proof, the effectiveness of sanctions, the adequacy of sanctions. The same has been said about the institutions. We can certainly see whether the RAB has sufficient opportunities, whether the sanctions they impose will help and whether they are sufficient. For example, the same length of suspicious money attachment. There's been some trouble, too, when the RAB's been trying to hold on to suspicious money for too long. After that, he's got a kick for it. This same shifted burden of proof should certainly provide a quite effective tool in the future in order for these processes to change quickly and with it the deadlines to change. The framework of the Financial Supervision Authority would certainly need to be considered. Is it quite reasonable that he is part of Eesti Pank on the one hand and, on the other, as part of the Ministry of Finance to some extent? Is it justified that the financing is on the basis of today's funding, or should it be financed purely from the state budget, from public funds? This will certainly require a thorough discussion, reflection and decision-making in the near future. I don't want to stop at it, but still, this particular case. Money laundering on such a scale and volume cannot take place without the knowledge of the directors and responsible persons of the institution, be it in Danske Bank in Estonia or Danske Bank in Denmark itself. Surely there is a responsibility on both sides. In Estonia, mainly because the employees of the branch neglected their due diligence, the FIU was not informed about suspicious money laundering flows. The Danish side could not have noticed that suspicious money flows through one of their branches in such volumes, and they failed to fulfil this same obligation before their national financial supervisory authorities. I hope, as I said, that the ongoing criminal proceedings will bring us much more information and it will be possible to return to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U157	Oudekki Loone, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U158	Ladies and gentlemen, Money laundering is never a purely economic activity where we look only at the cold numbers of financial institutions. There's always crime behind money laundering, there's acts that are dangerous to people, their freedom, their lives, whether there's drugs, killings, terrorism, extortion. Money laundering is ultimately the result of criminal organizations that impose their power over people with brutal force. Therefore, the interest of all countries around the world is to put a stop to money laundering, because money laundering feeds another structure: a brutal world of organised crime where people do not have rights. We have a common interest with all the countries in the world in putting a stop to terrorism, organised crime. We may have differences of opinion with the Russian Federation in almost everything, but here we have a common interest and here we need to find a way to cooperate. This is what we need, as we see very clearly today. Within this framework, this mafia framework, which is always behind money laundering, I am very concerned by the sentence of my colleague Jaanus Kariladi, which he said today in response to one question. It is that, yes, Jaanus Karilaid, too, is put under pressure not to deal with money laundering. The existence of this pressure means that there are people in our country somewhere, structures that are consciously or foolishly working for those who live out of cruelty and crime. I hope that a good colleague, Mrs Karilaid, not only will she draw the curtain for the problems we see today in the Estonian legal order, but also will draw the curtain for the grey statues who, with lobbyism or threat, pressure Parliament not to do its job. Then we will also find out whether people in all those institutions that should have seen such large-scale money laundering slept with laziness or malice for ten years. Of course, maybe they slept for another reason. I listened to those who were while Danske's washing machine worked on full tours, in power, and who are trying today to squeezing their eyes, sticking their fingers in their ears and screaming lal-lal-laa, everything was actually awfully good. It wasn't so good, it was really bad. But they thought maybe it was good, because they are the people who think that the Estonian state is created for the sake of capital, and as long as the bank makes a profit, it doesn't matter how bloody the money is, all the more because these crimes were somewhere in Russia and what we care about, we can't investigate them, even better if we don't investigate, but we make a profit. There are countries like this in the world who think it doesn't matter where the money comes from, as long as we benefit. I do not want Estonia to be such a country. And because Estonia should not be such a country, we must look at ourselves very seriously and ask ourselves what happened then, so that none of the organisations that we have and all of which should have lifted up a flag did not come to the public, and how can we avoid such things in the future, so that Estonia does not become a place where it is essential that we get the profits, and not even we have to get it, but as long as some colonial state gets the profits. Let us see how our institutions were treated, which at one point began to carry out some sort of control. Our Financial Inspectorate sent letters, and Denmark responded with colonial arrogance that they knew better. You can't go on like this either. Perhaps it is wise to find some more effective method of cooperation in the European Union, too, but we need to learn more about money laundering being discovered in the country where it takes place. Therefore, we need to look at the functioning of our own institutions. Several things have been said here today, such as the changed burden of proof or the fact that the punishment should be really influential. I'm not gonna repeat all this. But there is another very important question. If there's a situation of large-scale money laundering and it's going on for a long time, but no one's responding, there's probably some kind of problem with the flow of information. What we should be rethinking is the network's way of controlling what happens to information about non-standard transactions. At the moment, this information from the financial institutions will go to the Financial Intelligence Unit, which will deal with it. If he wants to, he'll notify the Financial Supervision Authority, if he doesn't want to, he won't. All kinds of cooperation agreements can be made on a voluntary basis, including the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit. But let's imagine for a moment that if a criminal organization wants to launder money, it's going to go and find a partner in these organizations. This means that we, as a country, are interested in ensuring that information is as well shared as possible between all monitoring organisations. The information that comes from the banks to the FIU must be shared with the Financial Supervision Authority, must be shared with the prosecutor's office. Similarly, analysis and control must take place, not only in the part where criminality has been identified, but also in the cases that are being archived. Sometimes it's not just financial information to decide whether or not it was money laundering, but the prosecutor's office may have some sort of separate investigation, and he can say you filed it, but there's actually some more information here. In Estonia, information currently moves randomly between supervisory authorities. The question is not only how much information we share with the public, but how much really our organisations can work together. That's one of the reasons why our investigations are slowing down. So the architecture of the financial supervisory organisations and the sharing of information between them need to be radically redeployed. I think we will continue with this not only in this Riigikogu but also in the next. But if we don't want to be a money laundering country, if we don't want the mafia to have blood on our hands, then we have to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U159	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U160	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, There are an enormous number of open questions about the story of this Danske bank, and the debate on a very important national issue today did not provide practical answers to them. Very serious questions and contradictions remain in the air, as has been evident from today's talks. One might say that he who was the Minister of Finance during the period when money laundering took place the most (he had been Minister of Finance for a long time at the time) admitted today that they knew that criminal Russian money was moving through Estonian banks, and they wrote a few letters to Denmark along with their subordinate organisation. But what didn't they do? They did not report, quite rightly, the same minister did not inform the other minister that the FIU under its authority could deal with the matter, because there is something very, very wrong here. Perhaps such a lack of communication with each other when it was known that very bad stories were happening, but in fact nothing was done, much has come out of today's story. Still, weird questions get in the air. When it is said that sanctions against Russia need to be imposed, we do so as a country very quickly, but if we know that criminal money comes from that very Russia to our banks, we are not operating for some reason. I've started to think a lot about our own sense of master in this Danske bank case. It is the same story that Danske can make himself a branch here and let him operate in Estonia and we can do nothing; we can only tell the Danish Financial Supervision Authority that ai-ai-ai, a bad story. Imagine now that we have basically allowed our courtyard to be desecrated, and we cannot punish these desecraters for that. This is an absurd situation. And it gets even more absurd when we look at who I'm punishing. In fact, it is ordinary citizens who have to bear the most of all the results of this money laundering. Today, you have to fill out a lot of paperwork at the bank to prove that you are not a criminal, even though you are an honest citizen of the same country. One member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti LHV Pank recently showed that this bank has 500 regulations, which are written on 17,000 pages. Come on! Do you realize that these regulations come to our ordinary bank clients, to those who consume all of them? Similarly, I do not understand the Financial Supervision Authority, which, as if with one hand, is pointing a finger, but at the same time, it is very capable of punishing with the other hand. This is the example of Versobank. In essence, the bank, which had completely changed its business plan, was effectively cleaned up by the bank, and after a few moments it would most likely have become a bank of Estonian capital. They shut it down, but there was nothing we could do about Danske's branch. These things make you think about a lot of questions. I want to stress that we must not stop talking about these things. On the contrary, we need to clean up ourselves and find out who was responsible for something and why something like that was done. In order to stand up for our reputation, we must ask Danske Bank for exactly the same compensation as it paid the Danish state, and perhaps even more, because it is the Estonian state that has remained in the most shameful situation in this story.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U161	Time's up, you didn't ask for more. Thank you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U162	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to start by making a few remarks on the big issues that we are talking about today, but I would rather emphasise that money laundering, which I would call small-scale or small-scale money laundering, which is going on today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, I consider to be a serious problem for our country and our people. I will start with the question of Estonia's reputation. We're in a new situation right now. At least one generation of Estonia has a sign that it is a land that helps money launderers and brokers of the post-communist world. That badge's stuck now, and we're not getting out of it anymore. It is in some ways very unfortunate, because it is what we deserved, but in the meantime we received a certain positive sign for the reforms of our transition to a market economy, but we can treat the current situation as a certain kind of funeral of the achievements of the time, our self-esteem and the assessment of Estonia in the world. No matter what we say or do, what happened, we can't wash off anymore. Could all of this have been prevented? Theoretically, maybe it would. After all, it was not the first ten years of our restored independence, which we can say we had all kinds of confusing transitional situations that could not be dealt with because of the need to deal with more important things. That was definitelyn't it. For myself, I take it that, look, for almost 25 years, we have been in decline, but it has been throbbing or droneing that Estonia has an extraordinary role to play in the fact that we have people here who have the knowledge of how to be the best mediators in the East and West. Considering how much of this has been enjoyable, it can be said that when it ended with a few hundred billion, perhaps it was even better because it could have ended worse. Some of our historians have pointed out that even in times of first independence there was an analogous situation for about ten years. What about the Financial Supervision Authority? All I can say right now is that three years ago, when we started working here as a Free Party, Andres Ammas was also a member of the Group, and we were in contact with the Financial Supervision Authority when we pointed out that a number of things were not good in their field of activity. Then we were told they'd straighten out and come up with drafts and stuff. It turned out to be absolutely empty. Years have passed, but serious problems within Estonia have not been dealt with by the Financial Supervision Authority. If it is true that it does not have to be his task, then we have something wrong with the regime in this sense and we must probably bring another institution into life. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U163	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U164	Look, the word "money laundering" has two important meanings. The word has primary or primary meaning when criminals collect cash in the course of their activities, they collect it and then they take it somewhere where it is taken into bank accounts. It's a primary and more important meaning. The fact that the money gathered from Estonia in the criminal way of the eastern countries has moved through Estonia can, of course, be called money laundering, but it does not reflect the fundamental meaning of the word. One of the negative consequences of the introduction of the euro, which was probably inevitable, was that our daily fight against money laundering went down a lot. Before that, or in the crown age, the Estonian authorities still had some opportunities to see where our drug dealers' money went from here, how these kroons came into account, how dealers had their own businesses or small restaurants here, and what else, where there was virtually no turnover, but where this criminal money was washed away, then at least in the euro age I have no idea how large the sums are, for example, those that the Tallinn drug dealers' groups are washing out here every day and how the money moves, whether it moves through Finland, Latvia or Lithuania, or whether it is transferred abroad via crypto currencies or something else. I am not quite sure that anyone in Estonia currently has an overview of this. Whatever we're saying about the Danske bank scandal, it's a relatively simple thing, and it's unlikely that something like this will happen again. But what I am talking about, which is the issue of our daily fight against money laundering, we should focus and hopefully the next government and the next Parliament will do the same. You see, the Estonian people survive the thing that happened. Of course, it would be nice to hope that the few hundred people involved would somehow be excluded from this activity, so that they could not repeat the same, but the money laundering that we are having now is undermining almost every one of our fellow citizens, every Estonian's attitude towards their own country, trust in the organisation and economy of their country. This is the thing that I call on us to do, if possible, when other stories have been spoken, seriously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U165	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U166	Honourable Riigikogu! Of course, money laundering is an important issue and a major problem globally, in Europe and especially in our region, where one big, dirty neighbor wants to wash his black money. I think that today's debate was generally quite successful, at least three quarters of it. I think three of the four presentations were very meaningful, balanced and informative. The exception, of course, was Jaanus Karilaid, for whom this is a major political show, an election campaign, and who, in fact, have no desire other than to condemn or condemn anyone politically. I personally hope that there will be no political trial in Estonia. Responsibility in such criminal matters is always personal, always specific. I hope that our law enforcement authorities will be able to prosecute these bank employees, if that is possible. But such a political trial, I think, should not be in a democratic rule of law. Of course, whoever knows Jaanus Kariladi's past and previous speeches, it, I think, smiling when he has a very pathological moral reading coming out of his mouth. But that's it. I wanted to say from this remote control that regulations in this area have become tougher every year. We certainly cannot say that nothing has happened for ten years. Talk to the heads of financial institutions or clients or major institutions and you will see that this situation has changed dramatically. There are so many regulations, regulations, rules and laws that no normal person can chew through them, which even requires a huge resource from banks. We could say what our problem is, let them handle it. But it is actually our problem too, because, as has been the case here today, a lot of people are being asked to report, prove, form, to close the accounts of completely honest people and businesses, and that is the problem. This problem will deepen if we take this domestic mud wrestling to the international arena. This is, in my opinion, the biggest mistake we can make in dealing with this issue. Of course, the Danes like to make it look like it was some Eastern European problem or it was somewhere far away. Actually, it's their bank, their branch, their people. But if we make it a high-level political problem, all the people of Estonia will suffer. Why are they suffering? Estonian banks already have problems financing themselves on the international market today, because the reputation is poor, the news is up, the banks are not receiving loans, the Estonian people are not receiving loans, the interest is going over, the economy has less money. In fact, this reputational damage is passed on to our bank accounts, reflected in missed financing and higher interest rates. It's a problem, we may be screwing around and doing a lot more damage than it's worth. So, above all, we would really expect the Committee on Legal Affairs, in cooperation with the Committee on Monetary Affairs and other institutions, including the Ministry of Finance, to make concrete proposals, solutions, not that we are trying to kill someone politically or to retaliate. If we can focus on a positive programme, then this debate today has come to the fore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U167	Valdo Randpere, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U168	Ladies and gentlemen, who are not much left in the Chamber, but all of you will be sitting in your rooms nailed to the TV and watching and listening to what is now being said. I'd like to take care of a few things first. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a Russian money lawyer or defender. Indeed, money laundering is a terrible thing. Russia is probably helping to launder this criminal money on a very large scale, but this talk of some 200 billion that has gone through Danske Bank is actually coming from a study by the Danes, which sums up the payments made by all non-residents of Danske Bank over a period of ten years. We have no idea how much of these payments were criminal and how much was legal. I'm guessing 90% of it wasn't criminal money. I do not know this, but if I also look at Russian economic news, I can see that Russia's two major economic problems are the outflow of capital and the lack of investment. The outflow of capital is also because, believe it or not, Russia also has completely honest businessmen, but none of them wants or dares to keep their money in Russia. I don't even know if they can have a dollar account there, for example. Watching the ruble swim up and down doesn't surprise me that they don't want to keep their money in rubles. But besides, looking at this unstable situation, a lot of businessmen as soon as they get the money, they're gonna take it away from Russia. This in itself is not money laundering when completely legally earned money is taken out of Russia. So we're probably gonna pull a hat too big on ourselves if we all multiply it by 200 billion and talk about how Estonia has been a huge money laundering country. This 200 billion is not an adequate number. However, as far as today's debate is concerned in general, at least the first part of the debate could be called "Kit's Toad." When the Centre Party comes and starts crying with God's serious face about how money is being washed in Estonia, I remind you that there is a party in Estonia whose leading figures are currently being prosecuted for money laundering and corruption. This party is the Centre Party. What, then, may have caused the Centre Party to become bitter and angry with the Financial Supervision Authority? I tried to illuminate it in the round of questions, but since there was no time, I didn't get a lot to quote. I myself have been a member of the Financial Supervision Authority Board. I cannot talk about what we discussed in the Council, but I quote public sources. I'm going to read you a couple of excerpts from the newspaper articles you may have missed, maybe just forgotten. First, an interview with Jüri Manor. This was after the Financial Supervision Authority failed to forward the application for authorisation to the European Central Bank, because the data were incomplete. These performers included those such as Edgar Savisaar, Kalev Kallo, and some others who were at the same time prosecuted for corruption. The city of Tallinn was the founder of this cooperative bank, which we are talking about, and Jüri Manor was a member of its supervisory board. Jüri Manor said in the paper: "The question about how the bank is going is answered by the entrepreneur that this whole thing is a big joke. "There is no bank and there is no bank. They just run out of money first. I heard at the last meeting that now they want to open a bank in 2018. But what kind of wonder is it that keeps happening and happening, but in the end nothing will happen," said the Manor. The Manor, sitting in the Supervisory Board since the bank was founded, said that it was a state-of-the-art central party formation. According to him, all the most important members of the Tallinn City Council and the City Government were present at the meetings, as well as a large part of the Central Party members of the Riigikogu. "It still made me feel hollow. The city's stake is 98 percent there, and they put more money on it all the time. The central party government uses its position and being on board in such a way that they direct the city's money for their own good," said Manor. " In other words, the Manor described corruption and money laundering. Despite the fact that the Financial Supervision Authority did not agree to grant an authorisation or submit an application, the Bank nevertheless started operating. In this regard, the following quote from the newspaper: "No one can place deposits in a bank without a license, and the bank has no other income. However, equity accounts for more than six million euros in the form of a contribution from the City of Tallinn to the establishment of the bank. Pursuant to § 372 (2) and (4) of the Penal Code, non-authorised activities in the field of credit, insurance or financial services are punishable by a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to three years. The Financial Supervision Authority has stated that the lender does not need to be authorised unless it is an economic and professional activity for the company. For the cooperative bank, it is an economic and professional activity. " The cooperative bank offers a loan and the loan is also offered publicly as its sole main activity on the website. So, basically, we are dealing with a bank owned and run by politicians from the Prime Minister's party in Tallinn, despite the fact that the Financial Inspectorate has actually denied them this activity or advised them to shut it down. And then we come to the Riigikogu and discuss why the Financial Inspectorate didn't do one thing or another. If it's not Phariseeism, what is it? If you really want to be law-abiding people, dear middle partymen, whom I no longer see in the hall... Oh, Oudekki, sorry! Dear middle partyers, of whom I see only one, most pleasant, for God's sake, first shut up the cooperative bank of Tallinn and then come and talk about Estonia still having to follow some anti-money laundering rules, and the Financial Inspectorate should be the authority in our eyes, whose guidelines and views we take into account and follow. Otherwise, it's still, to put it mildly... This is not a dubious talk, it is a very unambiguously non-motivating talk of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U169	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U170	Good President and few beautiful colleagues who are still here! Yes, when it turned out that in 2013 the Estonian branch of Danske Bank passed the 30 billion dollars of Russian money, or the three-year state budget of Estonia, and about 80,000 transactions were made, it really was a shock. If we interpret that there were 230 or about this billion in ten years, then the river that flowed through Estonia is not the River Emajõgi or the River Pärnu or the Mississippi or the Nile, it is at least the Amazon or some even larger river. It was also the time, remember, the time of the euro-expected. In 2011 he then finally came. 2012 Silvergate was, perhaps remember, when a young reform party admitted that the cash he had received from the party leaders was transferred to headquarters. In October, the DA's office closed the investigation, saying there was nothing. 2012 suggested that the Prime Minister at that time, by the way, throughout this decade it was the time of Andrus Ansip's governments here for ACTA matters to eat seeds and put on a foil cap. So the time was like this when this giant river flowed through Estonia. Then the question arises: If the river is so large, something will remain on the shores or on the fingers. To whom, it is a question of its own, it has not been answered. But I'm telling you two cases. The provincial companies told me a long time ago how, at the time Jürgen Ligi was the Minister of Finance, well-known law firms turned to provincial companies that oh, a small deal, Aserist needed to transfer some money to Switzerland, give your account of course it was Danske Bank or Sampo It's not bad, though it's a small risk. The entrepreneurs at the time, I stress, in the province, far from Tallinn, several hundred kilometers away, said that there was a struggle between the banks, everyone wanted a deal themselves, there was a tear. That's the first thing. So, in fact, these nipples or rivers flowed on several fronts at the time, on the one hand, these small, so-called hundred thousand streams or rivers, and then the big ones that flowed in Tallinn. But another entrepreneur, this time a large company in Tallinn, has said that the wife of one of his employees, Danske's employee, told five years ago, 2013 that the devil, where Russian state thieves go to their seminars to pump and wash money, but Eesti Pank does nothing. Or another thing: Nordea's bank managers laughed already in 2013, in the same year, on a ski trip how little Danske received interest income and how much income from settlements as if they had an Apple client. So briefly: it was a public secret, both in Tallinn and in the province, far from Tallinn. Of course, you didn't know the scale. Now I come back to the Financial Supervision Authority, whose yearbooks are incredibly good on paper, shiny and beautiful. I will now pass on the words of this big entrepreneur. Firstly, our Financial Supervision Authority, unlike the Swedish Financial Supervision Authority, is extremely closed, hardly commenting on whether or not something has been initiated. Secondly, this thing has grown through the former employees of banks, who are likely to influence how demanding banks are at all. For example, on behalf of the Financial Supervision Authority, Swedbank's former employee of its own commercial banking will reply that everything is OK. (Here the quote ends.) Thirdly, in any case that I have encountered, the Financial Supervision Authority has been of no use at all. The Financial Supervision Authority has allowed external missions to go into the hands of crooks and has left investors penniless without initiating supervision. In short, nothing about the Financial Supervision Authority and its hundred employees has helped protect the interests of hundreds of Estonian investors. Fourthly, a system where...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U171	Dear waitress, would you like some extra time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U172	...the banks themselves sponsor their own inspection, have come to an end. Indeed, look at how the Financial Supervision Authority works. The banks themselves are really paying for it. Of course, the second appointment of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank was particularly dull. I'm not going to quote, maybe this isn't the most polite thing. However, for this to happen, there must be competence to curate the dismantling of complex financial schemes. By the way, half of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority are appointed by Eesti Pank and half by the Minister of Finance. So in the end, the river is probably dried up, it's not that big anymore. What has happened has really put a decent stain on us, as Mr Adams said here, that mark will stay on for a long time, or, as Mr Talvik said, that we have let our yard. Although times were really confusing, pre-euro and euro-time times, and after the so-called 'foil hat', what has happened is rather appalling. The bottom line is, we haven't gotten an answer whose fingers are all about how much money was left. I was talking a little bit about Silvergate, about how Silver Meikar told me that he was given cash and it was taken to headquarters. The investigation was closed in October, but this money had to stick to a lot of fingers. The river doesn't flow through the shores without getting anything on the shores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-06_U173	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. We have concluded the debate on the key national issue of the problem of combating money. As the session is closed, we will proceed tomorrow. I wish all my colleagues a nice working day. Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
