ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 10th working week Thursday session of the VII plenary session. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I submit to the procedure the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U3	Good waitress, for a moment... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Let's listen to the waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U4	And yet I now submit to the procedure a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act. This concerns the assessment of school leaders. Very often it is recalled that the school looks like a school manager, that the school's results depend very much on school management. But in life, from time to time, school leaders are too self-governing and not the face that would benefit students and the quality of education. The state has a constitutional obligation to ensure the convergence of education throughout Estonia and this is one place where there is virtually no opportunity to fill it. We believe that, at least once every five years, the committee appointed by the Minister for Education should assess the results of schools and the competences of managers. It should be able to intervene, make recommendations and make precepts, and if the problem is not resolved, it must be able to propose the release of the head of the school. If this is not the case, there should be a financial sanction. I would point out that this bill was prepared at the Ministry of Education in 2016. We do not know why this important issue has been kept quiet. We believe that the state does not have to tell the municipality in advance what kind of employment contract it must do, but the state must be able to assess the quality of management, it must be able to give good advice and, if necessary, it must also make a more evil voice. Thank you. I'll sign it in front of you, it's unfortunately still not done. [[He'll sign it.]] I don't have to leave yet, do I? Okay. That's a good bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the governing board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board decides on its further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now for presence control. Ladies and gentlemen, 77 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, can we have a quiet room? Let's go to Thursday's agenda. We have one item on the agenda and this is the first reading of draft 601 of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean' proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The rapporteur is Maire Aunaste, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As regards the procedure, I mention that every member of the Riigikogu has one question and the political groups involved in the negotiations. Here you go, Mrs. Aunaste!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean was established in 2003 and should have 280 members, but as Marko Šorin left the Riigikogu a year ago, there is such an alarming situation that these members are now only 279. The Riigikogu currently belongs to Henn Põlluaas, but the Estonian delegation does not have a leader. That's the leader we should choose today. The Centre Party has proposed the appointment of Mr Kersti Sarapuu as Head of Delegation in place of Marko Šorin. At its meeting on 20 March the Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following procedural decisions on the draft: It was decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft 601 be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday 5 April. The Committee on Foreign Affairs proposed the final vote on the draft and the adoption of the draft as a decision. So this is all I've reported to you here. If you have any questions, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U8	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U9	Thank you. Good waitress! If any delegation is unknown and invisible, it is that delegation. Would you mind telling me a few words about what this organization is doing? What are his big issues? The Committee on Foreign Affairs has certainly received some kind of report.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U10	Yeah, we've got the report, I even read it. Although Henn Põlluaas could certainly respond better because he has been there and has been there. Today, by the way, Egypt holds the chairmanship of this Assembly. So these are the big issues. For example, Henn Põlluaas operates on the Committee on Political, Security and Human Rights, Marko Šorin's work as Head of Delegation was participating in the Committee on Economic, Financial, Social and Education, for example, on improving quality of life and intercultural dialogue. Of course, topical issues are also addressed in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Water Management. But, Jürgen, really, please ask Hennu, he really knows these things. He is very critical of this Assembly meeting. It is very difficult to reach a common sense in this Assembly, because very different countries belong there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U11	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi has another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U12	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U13	But I have to apologize. There's only one question that can be asked by the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U14	Thank God!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U15	The procedure allows one question. You can ask more questions immediately after the outside of the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U16	I'll meet you at the cafeteria later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-05_U17	Okay. Anyone else have any questions? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. Do the political groups have a wish to negotiate? No, it's not. Then we will prepare for the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the final vote? Mr. Vakra nodded that he could. I would also remind you that there were no amendments to the draft. The commission's proposal was to put the draft to a final vote on 601. There were 66 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, 1 abstention and 13 abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted as a decision. With this, ladies and gentlemen, our thorough session of the Riigikogu today is closed. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 10 a.m.
