ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 14th working week Tuesday session of the VII plenary session by handing over drafts and enquiries. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to hand over the draft legislation launched by the Committee on the Environment. This is a draft law amending the Hunting Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act. The need to amend these laws stems from a collective appeal made on 1 December last year, entitled 'Helping to end the legal slaughter of waterbirds! ', which was signed by 2569 Estonians. Consequently, the aim of the draft is to ensure that hunters who wish to hunt birds in Estonia have sufficient knowledge of the hunting rules in force in Estonia and the good practice of Estonian hunting as a prerequisite for legitimate behaviour. To this end, the Hunting Act is supplemented by the requirement that a person who has received a hunting certificate in Estonia on the basis of a valid hunting certificate issued in a foreign country is issued with a small game hunting permit if he has received training in hunting. Such training and training shall be subject to requirements and the volume of the training, as well as the arrangements for carrying out the training shall be laid down by the Minister of the Environment by means of a regulation. Thank you, and have a nice morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U3	On behalf of the governing board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a bill. As always, the Management Board of the Riigikogu acts on this bill on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 76 delegates take part in the meeting, no 25. Up in the box, a group of young Palestinian diplomats are watching our session. Welcome to the plenary session, our Palestinian guests!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U4	Today's first item is the debate on the key national issue 'State Budget Strategy 2019 Allow me to briefly present the procedure before going to this item. But Jürgen Ligi must have a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U5	I do, I don't know where else to ask. Tell me, if there is no such thing as a non-essential issue, could this format perhaps be reworded a little bit? The 'important importance' is tautology. It's really ugly when we multiply and multiply these phrases in a row.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U6	The Management Board of the Riigikogu will certainly take note of this comment, but the Board of the Riigikogu does not determine whether this is an important or less important issue, much less whether it is a national or non-state matter. Let us be honest, there are no minor issues in our work. However, this initiative will always come from a committee or a group of ambassadors. So, Jürgen Ligi, I don't really count it as a protest, just a distraction. First, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste will present to us, his presentation will last up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers (up to 30 minutes). Aivar Sõerd, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, then presents a presentation of up to 10 minutes, following questions and answers (up to 20 minutes). Third, the presentation will be made by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and his presentation will also last up to 10 minutes, followed by questions and answers (up to 20 minutes). The fourth presentation is presented by Andrus Alber (up to 10 minutes), vice-president of the Board, followed by questions and answers (up to 20 minutes). In other words, there are four reports. A member of the Riigikogu may submit a total of up to two questions to the rapporteurs during the discussion. It is usually the case that, when permission is given to ask this second question, the President of the sitting also recalls that this is another question. After the presentations and questions have been answered, we open negotiations, during which all members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can speak. At the request of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I propose that representatives of the political groups take the floor first. As usual, the Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the debate. Now I ask for a presentation to the microphone by Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is undoubtedly justified that the national budget strategy for 2019 has been discussed in the Riigikogu as a matter of major importance. It is important for each country that the economy and finances are in good order, because this is one of the essential guarantees of our well-being and that of our children. Without a functioning economy, there is no country, and a country that is heavily indebted, sooner or later will also stifle the economy. However, our wishes are always greater than the opportunities, and credit often tends to go in such a way that what has come easily has gone lightly. I am very pleased that we have put together a budgetary strategy that provides that the government budget is structurally balanced and in nominal surplus. By 2022 we have even planned a small structural surplus as a reserve. This means that public finances will continue to be in good shape in the future. The government's fiscal policy is responsible and I think it is important that we do not survive our abilities. It is characteristic of Estonia that our government debt is the lowest in the European Union. This will continue to be the case. Moreover, we are using surplus budgets and reserves to pay back loans that have been taken in the past. Last year the government debt ratio was 9% of GDP, and by 2022 it will fall almost twice to 5.3% of GDP. As early as 2020, we will reach a situation where public debt is lower than reserves. Thus, overall, the net assets of the general government are increasing. Those who have decided to focus their criticisms on reserves are, in fact, simply misleading, because loans and reserves must always be looked at together. In principle, we could also decide to refinance loans and raise reserves yet, but it would not be economically viable, because our reserves are more than sufficient for possible crisis situations according to the Ministry of Finance and because of low interest rates, it is not useful to keep money simply in reserves. The broader framework in which we plan our fiscal policy is, in conclusion, that the budget is in structural balance and in nominal surplus. This means that we are cooling the economy a little bit, taking money out of the economy and paying back loans with it. The structural balance in its nature means that the fiscal policy of the country is consistent with the state of the economy, neither cooling nor heating the economy overly. Those who recommend that the government's objective should actually be a structural surplus indirectly recommend that we cool our economic growth more than the methodology for assessing the economic situation makes sense. Of course it's possible, but I'm not convinced that it's reasonable. Estonia's tax burden remains below the European Union average, which is 40% of GDP. At the same time, our tax burden is somewhat higher than Latvia and Lithuania, which means that in the interests of economic competitiveness we should not allow the tax burden to increase. Let's take a look at history. Our tax burden was close to 31% before the major crisis and already rose to 34% by 2016, with the main leap of more than 2% in 2014/2016 when the government was led by the Reform Party. I recall that an increase in the tax burden of 1% represents an additional cost to taxpayers of over EUR 200 million per year. It's not small money. That is why, as Minister of Finance, I am particularly pleased that the government, with its partners on the left of my home party in terms of the world view, has agreed on a budgetary strategy that does not substantially increase the tax burden, and in the coming years our tax burden will remain stable at 34% of GDP. Estonian labour taxes are also below the European average, which helps to maintain the competitiveness of the Estonian economy. The tax burden and taxes on labour will be reduced, inter alia, by the reform of tax-free income, which will reduce labour taxes on workers who receive lower wages. I am also very pleased that the government has agreed on a tax peace and there will be no new taxes. The increase in alcohol duty scheduled for the beginning of next year will be cancelled. Similarly, we have already abandoned the increase in excise duty on diesel that was planned by the previous government at the beginning of this year. There is also no change in the liver and the packaging excise duty for sweetened beverages. Let me say a few words about the development of the Estonian economy. The Estonian economy is growing faster than we expected in the past. That's good news. This year the economy will grow by 4%, next year by 3.3%, and then growth will stabilise close to 3%. Estonia is a small and open economy. We'll be fine if our neighbors do well. But we need to be able to take advantage of this good environment and the government must not do things that hinder businesses for nothing, and the government must ensure that the state in Estonia, especially the e-state, operates easily and conveniently for every citizen. Wages are also rising as the economy grows. The average wage continues to rise rapidly, with more than 5% per year. The average salary is expected to be close to 1380 euros next year. It is a good thing that people continue to work and unemployment is low. Rather, there are concerns for employers who do not have as many hands as they would like. The work capacity reform initiated by the government has come to the aid of the people who had so far been excluded from the labour market. Pensions are also rising, the average pension is expected to rise by a quarter over four years, and the average pension will rise by 112 euros by 2022, or 559 euros. However, the price increase remains close to 2%. This means that wages and pensions will rise faster than prices and the purchasing power of the people will increase. The expenditure side of the state budget has also been put together responsibly. If you look at the large figures in the state budget, you can see that the budget will grow by about 6.5% next year, similar to nominal GDP growth. The expenditure of the state budget as a ratio to GDP does not change significantly. Looking at the whole strategy period, the ratio of public expenditure to GDP is decreasing. This means that public expenditure will increase more slowly than the economy. This is partly due to the European Union's 2014/20. The resources for 2008 will end by the end of this planning period, but we have not yet been able to count on either revenue or expenditure for the next period. However, the next budget strategy, which will be completed in less than a year, will provide more clarity in this regard. Let's look at bigger cost groups. Of course, social protection and health care are the biggest growing expenditure in the state budget, as pensions, family allowances and health insurance costs increase with growth and wage increases, and the number of beneficiaries increases. Family benefits, especially for large families, have been significantly increased. The health insurance budget is growing even faster than the economy, because we have decided to start paying additional funds for non-working pensioners in a growing line in the health insurance budget. This will allow more and better treatment, while paying healthy workers a decent salary. The total cost of health and social protection is nearly half of the cost of the state budget. These costs are likely to increase rapidly in the future, as our population is ageing and those paying taxes are falling, while the number of people in need is increasing. Another area that is growing together with the economy is defence. To this we will also plan 2% of GDP in the coming years, and there will also be the costs of receiving allies. In addition, we are planning an additional EUR 100 million for the purchase of anti-tank systems, anti-aircraft systems, cannons and mortar ammunition between 2018 and 2022. Similarly, R &amp; D expenditure is increasing. Over the next four years, it will cost EUR 659 million. This will ensure that R &amp; D expenditure is above 0.8% of GDP and is growing together with the economy. In addition, however, the question of how the private sector can keep up with the country on this path remains a difficult one. The state may be a locomotive here, but we also need cars. In the longer term, it is natural for private companies to take the lead. One of our objectives when we put together this budget strategy was to channel the funds at our disposal into areas where they will benefit society more. To this end, we also reviewed the distribution of European money, which was established four years ago. If, in some areas, more funds are planned than is actually needed or can be used, and at the same time, for example, there is a need for better roads in road construction, as well as projects and builders, then it is natural that we use European money to build roads. For better roads and connections, we are planning a total of EUR 2 billion over the next four years. These are perhaps the most important figures in this budget strategy, but a more accurate and comprehensive overview of the expenditure and revenue planned for the coming years will, of course, be given to the budget strategy and, already in the autumn, to the state budget and its explanatory memorandum. However, when it comes to a strategic view that goes far beyond the perspective of this budgetary strategy, the most important number is the number of workers and taxpayers who have an education, a defence force, a health care system, security networks and, in fact, the whole country. The less we have, the more expensive per person will be the maintenance of infrastructure alone, as Estonia will continue to be 45,000 square kilometres in the future. In this sense, the question of a million euros really is how to make better use of the taxpayers' money entrusted to us so that we have more taxpayers in the future, who have an expensive Estonian, Estonian and Estonian culture, otherwise in a few hundred years' time we will not have a state or a state budget. Population growth is also one of the priorities of this budget strategy. I believe that this is a task on which many other working groups, governments and Riigikogu have to worry, but this is already the subject of a slightly different debate. The Ministry of Finance's economic forecast and the objectives of the budget strategy have been assessed by an independent fiscal council, which was the basis for the state's budgetary strategy. I am pleased to note that the fiscal council's assessment of our economic situation coincides with the forecast of the Ministry of Finance. The risks identified, such as lower growth in external demand, a slowdown in wage growth, as well as the risks of tax behaviour when tax systems change, can be broadly accepted. As a criticism, the Board has pointed out that the measures outlined in the budget strategy to achieve the budget objectives have not been sufficiently explained and the impact assessments are superficial. I would like to confirm here that all measures have been assessed in full seriousness on the basis of conservative assumptions. Therefore, the argument that a structural balance would not have been achieved cannot be accepted in any way. In order to implement the measures, work will continue on drafts which will also provide more detailed explanations and impact assessments. All measures will also be analysed once again in the summer forecast so that the state budget for next year will remain stable on a sound basis. I take this opportunity to clarify some of the most important measures. The favourable economic environment has increased the profit prospects of state-owned companies, allowing them to pay higher dividends. However, in this regard, we do not expect the net profits to be taken out, but a certain buffer remains for companies. It is also common to constantly review and optimise the use of external instruments. For example, we can cover a number of activities from the performance reserve that had previously been planned to use state tax money. As part of the evaluation of real estate projects, we have based on a realistic timetable and some investments are shifting over time. More specifically, the Board refers to the possibility of crowding out additional job-creating measures that would further reduce planned budget receipts. For example, the renovation of apartment buildings is mentioned as there are no available resources on the construction market and new projects can only be initiated at the expense of something else. It is true that last year demand in the construction sector increased significantly, with the resources available largely exhausted. The strong growth in demand was mainly driven by the government sector, with a financial increase of 29% in investment. However, the measure to renovate apartment buildings is planned to be launched only in 2019 when the growth rate of government investment has fallen to 7% and will further decline. There is reason to believe that by then the construction sector has been able to adapt to a higher level of demand and to meet additional orders. The Board also refers to the possibility of a crowding-out effect in the case of an amendment to the Aliens Act. At the same time, the aim of this legislative amendment is to allow additional labour in the country only in the event of a shortage of local top specialists or to address the wider labour shortages resulting from the high economic cycle. Under these conditions, the withdrawal effect should be minimal. Honourable Riigikogu! This balanced country's fiscal strategy contributes to the growth of our economy, population, security, cohesion and prosperity so that taxes do not rise, the public debt burden decreases, and the state's finances will also be in good order over the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U8	The main report questions round is half an hour long. It's open by Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U9	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! The overall picture of this country's budgetary strategy may not be so bad, and greater foolishness has been prevented. However, on 3 May, the European Commission published its new spring forecast and, in presenting it, said in Valdis Dombrovski that there are risks in the future and that is why the good times should be used to build up reserves. It is certainly irresponsible to be in structural disadvantages in the context of such good economic growth, although all the possibilities for ending the structural deficit are also available. You said that the government must not take steps that put businesses in a more difficult position. How do you assess the pay race you're doing in this situation? Is your clear message to entrepreneurs that there will be no wage increases for public employees in 2020, 2021 and 2022?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U10	Thank you. I dare stick to my opinion that this budget has been drawn up responsibly. The structural balance means that, if the budget is balanced, in good times we take money out and in worse times we stimulate the economy. Ideally, budgets could be structurally balanced. In itself, this formula appreciates both good times and bad times. I don't want to say that a good country is the one who prides himself on paying a very low salary. Citizens and businesses certainly have expectations of certain services. When we take our children to kindergarten, we want them to be well cared for, so that those who work there teach and raise our children and spend much of their time with them are motivated. Similarly, we want our children to have a good education, and we want to live in a safe country. But it takes a lot of expenses. Yes, it can be said that the rescue officer has a good salary of 800 euros. I don't think so. I think the work they do is very important. Similarly, in the ICT sector, the gap in the private sector is quite clear. People are switching from the public sector to the private sector and this is not the way to support e-state. So the answer is that we have to start with where we are. Businesses are certainly interested in ensuring that the services provided by the State are of high quality. The rise in wages that is taking place in the public sector is part of this economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U11	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, you have not been treated as a separate part of the budget strategy, even though it was requested by the Action Plan and the explanations of how Estonia is preparing for a reduction in EU subsidies in the future. Yes, indeed, as you said, we cannot yet plan funds for the next European Union budget period, we do not know the country's figures. But what do we know? We know that subsidies will decrease as Estonia moves to more prosperous countries. Grants will be reduced by a third, we have heard in the debates that even up to 45%, but in addition, the share of self-financing will increase and contributions will increase. This requires substantial restructuring and reprogramming of the state budget in terms of expenditure and revenue. The Riigikogu's Riigikogu recommended that this section be included in the budget strategy. The National Audit Office demanded the same. Why did you fail to do so? It has to be done anyway, it just stays with the next government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U13	Thank you for your question. This matter was dealt with before I became Minister of Finance and will be dealt with after me. Foreign funds currently account for nearly 10% of the budget and this share will decrease as the Estonian economy grows. According to the current knowledge that we have, the annual volume of the European Union's structural resources will decrease from 110 to 120 million during the budgetary period starting in 2021. In addition, we receive agricultural subsidies and subsidies from central funds, such as infrastructure and science. So if we look at the whole picture, it cannot be said that, during the budgetary period, subsidies as a whole will decrease significantly. They may not shrink at all if they look at the whole picture, as we can receive more support for infrastructure and agriculture. Grant support must certainly always be viewed with common sense. Euro money must not have a different price tag, as if it were some kind of second-rate money. We need to look at our priorities and goals and find a financial cover. We must give up those subsidies that are not effective enough. As I have already said, the country has been preparing for a new period and plans for years. In the meantime, thanks to the help of the European Union, we have also become more prosperous. The standard of living in Estonia has certainly increased and this is entirely to be expected. This shows that we have benefited from European subsidies. Certainly part of the European Union's grants will be completed by major infrastructure projects, these projects do not need a new investment. A good example here is that Estonian residents receive clean water from the tap, also in settlements with a few thousand inhabitants. The same is true of other major investments. It is certainly important that we reduce costs and bureaucracy. One way to reduce red tape is also foreseen in the draft bill for the distribution of budgetary money that will soon arrive at the procedure in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U14	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I am sincerely pleased that the state's budget strategy envisages the construction of the facilities for the road with the 2+2 track in section Kose of the Tartu highway. But what do you say to those people who drive along the highway of Pärnu in Tallinn? The national budget strategy only speaks of a road with 2 + 1 tracks. At the same time, the section of Pärnu and Pärnu-Jaagupi has just as many cars as it is in the section of Kose-Mäo, and unfortunately there are more accidents, but unfortunately there are more injured and more deaths, but there are still only 2 + 1 roads. Why such double standards? Or are those people who travel to Tallinn on the Pärnu highway less valuable?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U16	Thank you for your question. If we look at the wider picture and perhaps back in time, I fully agree that our greater goal should have been better connections with larger cities. Certainly, if we are going to Tallinn on the Pärnu highway, we will see that this is one of the most dangerous major roads. I'm getting the same idea myself. When I was here in the Riigikogu for eight years, I may not have stood strong enough for these important investments to be made for the people of Estonia, rather than putting so much emphasis on the collection of reserves, because now we admit that it is dangerous to drive on the Tallinn-Pärnu highway. This is why some investments are not made in Pärnu, because the investor who travels from Tallinn to Pärnu once makes sure that this is not the road he would like to travel all the time. It's a wider subject. On the one hand, it is said that we have to collect reserves and make a budget in surplus, on the other, they ask why we are not spending there. That's one big whole in that sense. Surely the main road is one of the priorities and, as I said, there are plans to invest 2 billion in it over four years. If we can find opportunities and resources, I would prefer that the Tallinn-Pärnu road be fixed much faster so that we do not have to wait the next 20 years. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U17	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U18	Good President! Good Minister of Finance! The National Budget Strategy foresees that from 2018 the country will contribute 1% of GDP to R &amp; D, while the private sector will contribute 2% or half as much. We know that in 2018 or this year, the country will not actually contribute 1%. So it's probably going to have to be corrected on page 35, but still the proportion is going to be 1: 2 planned for the next few years. If we look at the statistics of the past years, we can see that the private sector has contributed a little more than half of what the country has contributed, but not twice as much. My question is how the government intends to motivate the private sector to invest twice as much in R &amp; D as the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U19	Thank you. That's the right question. In my opinion, the financing of R &amp; D has somehow overlooked whether this support will also stimulate the private sector to contribute. When speaking to the private sector, it becomes clear that these developments that are being made will not generate any profits for them. They do not produce GDP growth as much as we would expect. So the way forward is that we want to bring R &amp; D funding together with the interests of the private sector, so that it also gives them reason to invest. This is the general picture that we cannot be happy about in this sense. The private sector will certainly have an interest in investing more when it sees that it actually benefits from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U20	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U21	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject initiated by Aivar Sõerd. Indeed, the audit of the National Audit Office recommended that three things be added to the government as part of the budget strategy. Firstly, detailed information on how the European Union's contribution is being prepared for a reduction. Secondly, analyse the contribution of the grants to the financing of the different tasks of the State. Thirdly, the forecast time and action plan for the planning of the European Union budget period. This recommendation has not been followed by the government. Why did you decide that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U22	Thank you. This recommendation has been taken into account in itself. In fact, the country is very clearly preparing for a reduction in euro subsidies in the future. Yes, the explanatory memorandum specifically sets out external grants. Anyone who wants can follow the finger. On the other hand, it is difficult to make a very comprehensive exit strategy, if we do not really know how much we will lose. Here we will be smarter, perhaps at the end of the year, if the European Commission comes up with its proposals and they are also debated at European Union level. As I said, perhaps in the big picture, our euro subsidies will not decrease significantly in the next period. That's part of the answer. The second part is that we are going to ABB. It will continue to provide an opportunity to better look at these costs and to link them to our objectives and priorities. It is the principle that we do not have 'two money' - one is state revenue and the other is euro money - but we have one money from which we finance our priorities and our goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U23	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U24	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You have finished your answer by saying that we have one money, but I am still asking about the European Union budget. After all, in recent weeks, the long-term budget for the period 2021 to 2027 has come to the public. There are different estimates of how much funding will decrease. Of course, there are still many debates on exactly what the budget is going to be. However, it has also been said that there is a considerable increase in self-financing when it comes to including euro money. The general government balance target in the strategy for the period 2018 to 2022 is one very nice table on this issue, and it does not inspire a very high degree of confidence that we will be able to do all of this if self-financing is to be used in the first place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U25	Thank you. Yeah, the problem is understandable. Well, we're all looking forward to clarity. First of all, it is necessary to find out what the external grants for the next period are, in what extent and areas they are intended for. Again, it is very difficult to share bear skin when the bear is still unshot. Yes, the Commission came up with an initial plan today. In the course of this and next month, numerical proposals will be more precise, which will only be negotiated. Self-interest is a very painful issue. If the own contribution of some measures gets too high, then perhaps we need to see if we are not able to carry out some projects during this period, as we have planned. This must be taken into account when putting the RES together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U26	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question is about the tax burden. On page 77, you say that the aim is to stabilise it close to 34% by reducing taxes on labour. Then we see decimal numbers, which are still slightly larger than 34. On page 78, the government's objective is to keep the effective tax rate on labour close to 35%. You criticised a political party that has been in the government for a long time. I have to say, there was a minister in the government for a long time when the tax burden went up, his name is Sven Sester, and he's your party partner. Why did it happen like this in 2014/2016, and why do you not set a higher target of significantly lowering this tax rate if you criticise the work that you have done in the past? What kind of taxes on labour and how much reductions are planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U28	Thank you for your question. I don't know if there was any criticism in my voice when I said that. I just gave an example that if today's government is criticised, you should often look in the mirror. Certainly, at some point there was also the IRL government and the tax burden increased at that time. It was politics back then. Today's government considers the 34% tax burden to be optimal. Stability and a long-term view of the business environment are essential. I think that is what we are saying today, that the tax burden is not making 1 to 2% jumps, but we are keeping it stable at 34%.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U29	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! When you became a minister, your business background gave me hope and confidence that you would be a good Minister of Finance. Today, too, you were honest in some ways because you also criticised your party partner, Sven Sester, for what has been done. But listening to today's presentation, I began to think that you have acquired all the demagoguery of our honorable Prime Minister. In the government, this idea is also confirmed by the addition of one PR minister, which, in my opinion, refers to a trick in the economy such as selling air. You referred to the fact that we expect to know how much money we will have in the future, and then we will make decisions. In fact, your decisions have only been made on one thing: next year is the election. You promise to do things that are not within the competence of today's government, and you leave very high costs to the next governments. But please tell me why, as a minister, you have failed to ensure that the officials of the Ministry of Finance do not complain in the committees that the ministries are not subject to them and are not dealing with this substantive agenda, a description of the exit strategy based on the reduction of European Union money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U31	Thank you for your question. Well, we all learn in politics, maybe that's why it gets a little rounder, life is like this. But the fact that ministries don't obey makes sense on the one hand. Let's look at the budgetary process. Who then likes to go to the Ministry of Finance with their budget applications, where they say it's okay, it's not okay, and that's the absolute truth. Yes, our wishes are always greater than the possibilities. If we now come to the external instruments, I dare say that today's government took a relatively strong step that has not been taken for a long time. We put untapped European Union funds on the table and looked at whether the use of funds was based on our priorities and objectives. In fact, most of the ministries agreed that there were ways to make the money effective, and we also changed the money. So on this point, the criticism that nothing is being done has perhaps not been quite correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U32	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U33	Thank you. Mr. Tõniste! I did not think that you would be a good minister, and I think you have not yet become a Minister of Finance, because you are actually boasting about the costs rather than about the sustainability and feasibility of things that should be the main passion of the Minister of Finance in all appearances, but you do not. But I didn't think it could get any worse, and that's what I've been waiting for. It amazes me how last year the same RES was approved as the economic recovery, it was said that economic growth was not satisfactory, and it was still said that it was enormously responsible. We're talking about a completely different RES now, not a hole, there's a lot of holes here, but still a sustainable RES. How would you describe this contradiction or justify that responsible is both irresponsible and simply open-minded, but balanced?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U34	Thank you for your question. You can't expect everyone to like people. Well, all of us may have reproaches for each other's work and thoughts about how we would have done things differently. I was not reporting on the country's budget strategy in this Chamber last year. You could say I wasn't even active in politics. I was not happy that at that time the country's budget strategy envisaged a structural and nominal deficit. When I became Minister of Finance last summer, I set as one of the goals to balance the budget as quickly as possible. I am very pleased that today's coalition was able to put together a country's fiscal strategy, which provides for a structural balance in four years, even a small surplus in 2022, and a nominal surplus in all those years. I think this is a very right step in the right direction for today's coalition. At the same time, looking at the priorities, we found funding to solve perhaps the most painful and most demanding problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U35	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You argued in your presentation that public finances would be in good order in the future and that the Board of Budgets would support the positions of the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, I have realised that according to the Board's opinion, the government budget will remain in both the structural and nominal deficit in the coming years, according to the spring forecast for this year. I can't say these conflicting signals create certainty. Here's the question: what moment did you mean by the future, whether, in abstract terms, the sustainable future of the Estonian state in 2022 or in March next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U37	Thank you. I'll start at the back. I really thought and feared that during the discussions on the country's budgetary strategy, the next year's elections would always come to mind. Luckily, it wasn't. If you look at the country's budgetary strategy, you will see that in fact all the activities and funding have been viewed in the long term, while at the same time the next coalition is handed over to public finances and budgets. This is the base we're going from. I also spent some time talking about the Fiscal Council. Indeed, they broadly agreed with the Ministry of Finance's economic forecast. But I read their critical notes and the answers to them. It is understandable that if they have a week to familiarise themselves with the national budget strategy, it is not real that all revenue measures are thoroughly assessed. They actually pointed out that they thought there were signs of danger. As I said, in the summer forecast, as a result of the drafts that arrive at the Riigikogu, a number of revenue forecasts will be specified. We have assessed them conservatively, and I very much hope that there will be more money in the summer forecast or next autumn budget, rather than less money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U38	My dear waitress, there are still questions for you, but the half hour for the round of questions was just now filled. The names of those who are on the list but who were unable to put the question to the minister shall automatically be forwarded to the next list of questions to the rapporteur. In case you give up the question, you know how to behave. The Minister will be able to speak as a member of the government after the negotiations have been concluded, if he or she so wishes. Now I call on Mr Aivar Sõerdi, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. The duration of the report is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U39	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In June 2016, the Special Committee on State Budget Control prepared a report on the possible changes to the Fiscal Policy Paradigm in the Estonian parliamentary system. As a summary of this report, the majority of the members of the Riigikogu considered it necessary to increase the role of the Riigikogu in shaping the strategic view of the state's fiscal policy. As a general conclusion, it can be pointed out from this report that fiscal policy is one of the country's most important policies, in which Parliament plays an important role in its participation in the annual budgetary procedure, but does not have a role in shaping the agenda drawn up to achieve the long-term objective. A debate on a budgetary strategy in this large Chamber, such as today, is a first. Financial policy in general has been discussed in the past in 2011, but today's debate is in any case a step forward. At its meeting on 21 March, the Riigikogu's budget control committee discussed the information and adequacy of previous budgetary strategies. The Commission has been consensually proposing to the Ministry of Finance, which we are proposing in the new strategy, in the same way that the Minister has presented, we want to see what data and what content. In summary, our proposals were as follows: First of all, it is necessary to present in the strategy the view of a possible reduction in EU subsidies over the next budgetary period. We have expressed our wish for detailed information to be provided as a separate part of the budgetary strategy on which financial processes and reforms are preparing for a likely reduction in EU subsidies. We wanted to see an analysis of the contribution of European Union support to the financing of the various tasks and areas of the country in this period and how the financing of the necessary activities will be planned in the future. As the Minister said, almost a tenth of the budget expenditure and almost half of the investments are made out of external subsidies. This means that our dependence on external resources is still very high. In addition to the proposal on European Union subsidies, we also made other proposals. Our wish has been, I think, that this has been a cross-cutting issue here before, also in the discussion of this report, that the strategy document should be even more understandable, informative and more comparable to the previous strategy papers. We also proposed that there should be a better description of the social security funds, the sickness fund and the unemployment fund, as these institutions have a huge impact on public finances. Unfortunately, in the new budget strategy presented by the Minister here, our proposals were still largely not followed up, despite the fact that the National Audit Office had also asked the European Union's contribution to be treated as a separate chapter. That wasn't done by the Ministry. Neither did we see the accuracy of the information and the overviews in the budgetary strategy in the very form we formulated in the Commission's proposals. It is true that the budget strategy of the European Union will return to the money of the European Union, but this information is not linked to future changes in EU funding, but simply to better budgetary decisions and more efficient spending as a result of these budgeting reforms. The dependence of the different national functions on European Union grants and where the projected reduction in budgetary resources and the change in the structure of revenue have not been addressed, given the decline in European Union subsidies. Not only are we talking about a reduction in structural support, we are talking about the fact that as far as we know today, there is a need to plan larger contributions and there is also an increase in the share of self-financing, which is a very important change in terms of the state budget. After all, all this must be done in a situation where free money that can be replayed is becoming increasingly scarce, because the "fixed" share of expenditure in the budget is very high. So, in any case, the changes to the European Union's resources require a re-planning of the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. The Minister said that these action plans had been being dealt with for a long time; he also admitted that they needed to be dealt with further. Why, then, cannot this work be described in the budgetary strategy? Yes, he can. If we really do not have enough information yet, because we now only know the starting position of the European Commission, so-called country-specific envelopes on 29 May, numbers for countries, this chapter should already be in this budget strategy today. If new information comes later, this chapter can be supplemented every year. I am briefly talking about a few aspects of the budgetary strategy, which we also addressed yesterday in the Committee on State Budget Control. We listened to the presentation by the representative of the European Commission, Mrs Katrin Höökelson. Indeed, when we look at the entire European economy, we see that these are very good times in economic terms. These good times are also reflected in the budgets of the European Union and the euro area Member States. I'll get some numbers. While the average deficit in 2016 was 1.5% in structural terms, the average deficit in the euro area countries will fall to 0.7% this year. The same European Commission forecast, which was presented to us yesterday and which was published last week, has numbers for Estonia as well. We see exactly the opposite line of figures: if in 2016 there was a structural deficit of 0.4% of GDP, this year the European Commission is forecasting us to have a deficit of 1.3%. Why is this important? The point is that Estonia is also part of the European Union's budgetary planning framework. It has its own rules and is based on the European Commission's assessment of the budget. The deficit of 1.3% is still very much higher than the balance or zero level that the Minister was talking about. That is why, if we really want to talk about conservative fiscal policies, we should still create some kind of buffer for the budget in the form of structural surpluses, so that there is no risk of differences in these estimates. I understand that this is a forecast and that this year's revenue may also be better. But in any case, we can at least see from the European Commission's forecast paper that Estonia is moving in exactly the opposite direction as the euro area as a whole, where countries have strongly improved their budgetary situation, created buffers and prepared for the difficult times to come in the future, taking advantage of the current really very favourable economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U40	The length of the round of questions is 20 minutes. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U41	Good manager! Good waitress! I was gonna ask the Minister of Finance, but I'm gonna ask you now. In exactly three weeks on Tuesday, this Estonian envelope will come and you will rip open this envelope with a shaking hand, just as the Minister of Finance will do, and you will see what number it says, but the number that is going to come to us with euro money is either a third or almost half smaller. Does this mean that the budgetary strategy needs to be substantially changed? After all, one part remains inside, and finding 200 million or more each year is quite a problem. Or should I be calm? As the average loan burden in the euro area is 80 to 90% and we are ten times smaller, we are taking out a loan and there is no problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U42	Yes, in any case, this strategy does not really address the description, it does not concern the action plan that will happen in the future with regard to European Union subsidies, and this part will have to be included in the budget in the future. We're not getting away with this, it's just the next governments that have to deal with it. This, of course, changes the whole framework and these numbers. As the Minister said, there is indeed a table in the strategy that shows external resources. From there we can see that, if there are now around a billion foreign funds available each year, by 2022, external funds will fall to 640 million. That's a huge reduction! Indeed, the next budgetary period for the European Union has not yet been taken into account here, because the envelope that we are about to open with shaking hands on 29 May is not yet there. But things are gonna change. Let's just think about the information that we're seeing a pretty sudden decrease in foreign resources in these same departmental numbers right now. We also need to know which activities financed from external resources will end. The Minister pointed out that water management and infrastructure would be completed. But that's the description we need, that's what we asked for, but it's not. This work simply needs to be done by the following governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U43	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! We have heard on several occasions today that the government has not taken into account the opinion of one of Parliament's representations, the Committee on the Control of the Budget. What are the levers of such a commission to reach a situation where the government also takes into account his suggestions, thoughts, and opinions? How do you feel about the situation that has now arisen?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U45	Thank you for that question. This commission is certainly very important and all political parties in the Riigikogu are represented there. We generally take decisions in a consensual manner. The proposals we made on this strategy were also consensual; coalition politicians were also involved in making them. The Riigikogu is an employer of the government. This situation, which we are seeing, is not, in my view, quite normal. But what do we do now? We are discussing this issue here today. It is not the state budget law itself that has been stoned. Indeed, in the State Budget Act, we read that there are no such separate roles for Parliament or the committees. It says that the state's budget strategy will be prepared by the Ministry of Finance and approved by the government, and then there will be a long list of what the strategy must contain. Perhaps in future we will also have to look at the state budget law from this point of view. But the current situation is certainly not normal. Not only am I talking about the input or recommendations of the National Audit Office on the strategy, but the National Audit Office also came up with the same proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U46	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U47	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The last meeting of the Committee on State Budget Control, where the Minister presented the country's budgetary strategy, was, in my opinion, quite meaningful and, unfortunately, not in a positive light. The observations of the National Audit Office referred to here, why the reduction in the European Union's resources has not been adequately reflected and how we should react economically and politically to this reduction, were instead seen as a'reaction', which I find very strange. The Minister himself argued that do not worry about the fact that the state budget as a whole will not decrease because the European Union's resources are falling, rather our budgets will continue to grow. Is this a responsible statement, given that in this century, our population is projected to fall by half a million?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U48	Thank you for that question. Yeah, I remember this trial. Indeed, I think we have quite well explained the reasons why the National Audit Office also helped us, why such an action plan is needed, how to manage and how to plan the budget in a situation where everything about European Union subsidies actually changes in a very important part. The Minister here today said that there will be no reduction in the EU contribution as a whole over the period 2021 to 2027. However, it also needs to be described in the strategy as how it will succeed without any reduction. After all, our wealth is moving to levels above 75% of the European Union average, and the Cohesion Fund's resources are starting to shrink as a result. Major changes will also be faced in the new budgetary period within the European Union itself. Structural support is decreasing throughout the package. Well, we may win in terms of agricultural subsidies, but very big changes are coming. There will be new projects, more resources for defence or border protection, security, research and development. All of this also affects our budget. As mentioned here, some activities are really going to end, but a large part, 90% of the activities are said by the ministries to continue with the National Audit Office. Ministries may ask for more, just in case, but still a large part of the activities will continue. Inevitably, there is not enough funding for all activities. That is why it needs to be clarified today. The two years of the next European Union budget period will remain within this strategy period and it is necessary to describe which activities will continue and which will not continue, and how, from which sources, the replacement funding will be found for those activities that will continue, although the European Union funding will disappear. All this needs to be done, it is part of the budget strategy that needs to be done anyway. It is simply left to the next governments. The answer they gave at that meeting that we are looking at the European Union's resources as a whole is natural, it must be so. They also spoke about new measures and efficiency in the budget. All of this is nice to hear, but we really did not hear this approach, which is changing specifically with regard to the European Union's resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U49	Urmas Kruuse, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I did not get an answer from the Minister, but you partly answered my question. But the problem, actually referring to the National Audit Office, was that ministries do not want to map their priorities and implement them according to the amount of money, or to give a very clear message that these are our priorities even when European Union money disappears, and what we do and how we plan it. This shows that it is a one-day policy. You can't do that. Rather, the increase in the agricultural policy money referred to may mean that relatively more money will come into the first pillar, i.e. we will get more than the European Union average, but that does not a priori mean that the whole agricultural sector will get more of it or the rural area as a whole. It's still very suspicious. I caught one sentence from the Minister's point of view, where he pointed out that loans would also be repaid at the expense of reserves. Some experts have indicated that over-charge should be used to better manage their cash flows at present. What's with the reserves and their cash flows?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U51	Yes, we also addressed this issue in the National Audit Office, together with the National Audit Office, yesterday, and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, of course, we did so in a little more depth. However, the government does not plan any specific activities in the budget strategy in order to repay loans as a matter of urgency or on a larger scale. To be repaid on pre-arranged schedules. If you look at earlier strategies, you will see that the refund numbers are exactly the same as in the current strategy. But that the reserves will be repaid... I do not understand what the Minister was trying to justify with this, whether this situation is probably the one that, on the one hand, there is a statement that the budget is in nominal surplus and, on the other hand, the reserves are decreasing. There's already a certain contradiction. In fact, the law requires that a cash flow forecast be included as part of the national budget strategy. By the way, this cash flow forecast does not exist. Such good times do not last forever or forever; they must be used to gather reserves, not to spend reserves. What else is important in the context of the country's budgetary strategy? These data on reserves are not quite sufficiently or comprehensively provided. I do not know whether the members of the Riigikogu know that the reserves of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund are being used to cover the deficit of the state budget. It is not so temporary that when the balance of the Treasury becomes small, money is taken from it and put back later when reserves are growing. It's not like that. The use of the funds of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund is permanent, but in the budgetary strategy when providing reserves, the Ministry uses a methodology according to which the introduction of the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund is not shown as a reduction in reserves. So we actually don't get the whole picture of the strategy, we don't get the exact information. Last but not least, in April, I had such numbers in my head that the central government reserve, which is the liquidity reserve, had EUR 740 million, but the unemployment fund and the sickness fund have deposited more than 900 million with the Treasury, so some 260 million have been spent. It is not the case that this money is temporarily taken and then returned. No, it's a permanent way of using the cash from these cashiers, i.e. the unemployment fund, and the sickness fund, to cover the deficit of the state budget. Of course, if the cats need all this money in the future and reserves continue to decrease, as we see now in this strategy, then this money must be borrowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U52	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear rapporteur, first of all recognition and thanks to the committee you chair, that you brought the issue of the state budget strategy here for the first time as an important national issue for the discussion of the grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. My question concerns the statement made by the Minister for Finance. The Minister of Finance also confirmed today from this remote control that the structural balance of the state budget and, finally, the surplus will be achieved by 2022. Have measures to achieve the surplus been adequately assessed, assessed and justified in the strategy at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U54	Thank you for that question. First of all, I would like to thank you for this observation on bringing this issue to the Chamber. In fact, your group also has a very important role to play in this. Thank you, too. As regards the measures to achieve budgetary balance and the alleged surplus by 2022, we saw, in fact, after the forecast by the Ministry of Finance that the budget will be in structural terms 0.7% less in the next year. Then the government came together, and the minister briefly spoke about the measures that were taken. In my opinion, these measures are not sufficient. That they are not enough, we also heard the Commission debate yesterday when the representative of the European Commission spoke about the European Commission's spring forecast. I asked whether the government measures taken at the end of April also reached the European Commission's forecast published at the beginning of May whether they were taken into account. The answer was that, indeed, they were taken into account by the European Commission, but in half. The total volume of these government measures is known to be 0.7% of GDP, which is around 170 million euros. Half of this is about increasing the yield of one state enterprise on the dividend of Eesti Energia and then there are other measures. We are going to have a defence industry next year, new jobs are coming, people on high pay come to work and start paying more taxes, that was also one measure. The European Commission did not accept these measures in full, and that is also the assessment that if the Ministry of Finance says that the budget will be balanced next year, the European Commission forecast will say that minus 0.9% of GDP. There's a pretty important difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U55	Since today the Riigikogu accounts for more than usual in the large hall, Peep Aru asks the following question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U56	Thank you. As a new member of the Riigikogu, I am not quite sure whether the addressee is correct, but since I did not receive a reply from the Minister, I am still asking. According to the strategy, there will be very large increases in wages in certain parts of the state sector next year, but there will be virtually no increase in the years to come. What am I going to say at grassroots level to my neighbouring teacher, which, according to the country's budgetary strategy, awaits her in the three years following the elections? Is it strategically that there has been no convergence of teachers' salaries towards average wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U57	Thank you for that question. That is exactly what we discussed yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Indeed, there will be major wage increases for rescue workers, teachers, cultural workers, etc. next year. It's next year, but what happens next? These ups go into the base, but the next ups are not foreseen in the strategy. In fact, I do not quite believe that, in a situation where the wage growth in the business sector is above 6% and we have a one-off increase, there will also be no need to review the salaries of public sector employees in the coming years. I'm sure he will. The budget forecast has no figures for this and it also distorts the figures for the future. Of course, public sector wage increases can also be achieved in a different way, even through the efficiency of the public sector and the reduction of consolidation and compositions, but we do not see such an action plan by 2019 and beyond in the strategy paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U58	Thanks to the waitress! Today's third presentation will be presented by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. The length of the presentation is 10 minutes and then there are 20 minutes of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U59	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Normally, when we have some strategy in the hall, some program, we always line up, depending on which side we're on, pro and contra. This has already been seen here many times today. I do not think that this is the most important thing today, but today I would like to talk about another subject. The point is that, by accident, before I became chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I was chairman of the National Budget Control Committee for six years. Six years. During this six years, we had sufficient experience that, either way, one or another Member of the Commission raised the question of how to increase MEPs' participation in budgetary processes, how to increase Parliament's role. It's the same rubber seal problem. Four years ago, we came to the conclusion that we started discussing this with the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office gave its opinion, we said ours. Got one major job done, got one poll done. Mr. Kõljalg did this grateful thing, he did a very big job, talked to a lot of people. There also came one very, I would say, good report from our committee. The main point that went through this report was that the Member wants a bigger role. Regardless, by the way, whether he's in the coalition or in the opposition, he wants more say. But he'd like to get it when the budget is in preparation. This poses major problems for purely technical reasons. However, one option, one parallel option, is to participate in the development of a national budget strategy. We've been over this. The question is how to time it. This has always been a problem, because the country's budget strategy reaches the final stage and it will be adopted in accordance with the law eight months before the beginning of next year if it is not the year before the election, and we are limited to the fact that the strategy will normally be adopted at the end of April. The problem is related to the State Budget Act. The financing plan is based on a financial forecast and we are talking about a macroeconomic forecast and a financial forecast, and an analysis of the economic situation must also be carried out. It is always said that all these forecasts and analyses must be ready, only after that can we discuss something in substance. And then, when you're ready to discuss the substance, it turns out that it's time for the government to confirm the RES. I would remind you that this debate on the RES is the first in this Chamber today. It's never been before. On 3 May 2011, there was a debate on finance, including the RES at the time, but having looked at the verbatim reports of 2011, I would say that this happened quite incidentally. Something needs to be done to ensure that this RES debate takes place at the right time and that members of the Riigikogu and political groups still have more say than they currently do. There's gonna be two problems. One relates to all the forecasts, studies and other things that it should be based on. But I have to ask now how credible these projections are. Normally, when something suddenly changes in the economy, it turns out that forecasts did not foresee it. We do not know what the price of gas will be in Europe after Nord Stream 2 has been completed. It's affecting it quite a bit. We do not know what the price of oil will be when the US will impose sanctions against Iran and maybe re-introduce an oil embargo. It's all unknown to us. Do we necessarily have to rely on forecasts that no one remembers six months later? That's my opinion, I think we could be more free. It is, after all, a strategy. We should be freer, then we'd have our hands untied. When could this happen? Everyone who's been here for at least two or three years knows that we usually have a very intense end of the year, November and December. This is linked to the state budget and the accumulation of the laws planned to take effect from 1 January, 1 February or 1 April next year. We usually have this substantial work on draft laws, indeed, to a very large extent at the end of the year. After that, there's some kind of... Well, the budget's been adopted, now we can talk a little bit. Substantial work disappears for a certain moment, we take it quite calmly. I have two proposals regarding funding. One is that next year's RES we could discuss already during the budgetary process for the current year. This means that when ministers go to the committee in their field and to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we could talk about how they see not only the main points of the budget for the next three years, but also the main points of the budget for the next three or even four years, what they want with regard to the state budget, how we could move, say, one budget to another, how they see these developments. The second option is that it is a little harder to do because there is a need for a habit that, once again after the adoption of the budget, ministers will go on a compulsory basis in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and each of them in the Committee on their own affairs, in January-February, so that there is sufficient time to understand the main orientations of the strategy and to communicate in due time the observations and proposals that emerge during this debate. Perhaps this will require a change in the state budget law in the near future. These are all points of thought. I think every one of us understands perfectly what a coalition is and what an opposition is. Given the views expressed by the long-standing study that was carried out in the REKK, we may also be able to find a common language here, because the law we are doing is not for one side or the other, but for Parliament. These are the marginal remarks to this debate, which I think has taken place in this hall in the last hour and a half. This may be the basic thing that could be pointed out in today's debate. This criticism, which relates to one number or another, actually only lives as long as it is quoted in a press or newspaper column, after which it is no longer present. But the way in which this debate on the RES is being put in place can last for long years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U60	A round of questions. Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U61	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good colleague! That question comes to you because I wasn't fast enough for the last round of quick fingers. Before I ask you a question, I share your view and support your proposals for the RES debate. I also share the previous rapporteur's serious attitude towards the reduction of the European Union's money and resources, although we must be glad that this comes from the fact that Estonia's development has been good and we are moving to the richest countries in Europe. But here's two questions. First of all, is this fallout really so 'big'? Obviously, if it had not been for the money of the European Union, we would have done a lot of things quite differently. Well, even those so-called road monuments. In many respects, I share this view and ask how you feel about it. The other part of the question. While Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson was here to present a report, it turned out from his assessments and answers that in some respects we could take loans, including public loans. How do you feel about this as a Commission waitress?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U62	Thank you. I'm purely personal with regard to borrowing, but sometimes there's such a need that you need the resources to continue with your development. The credit mechanism is a very important part of today's economy. However, I would prefer to use European funds before lending. As regards the first part of your question and, in my opinion, the more interesting part, yes, European financing is starting to decline. Knowing how the money of various European measures has been spent in my region, I understand that if this money had not been there, it would never have been possible to carry out one project or another. For example, the Narva water and sewerage system, which cost a total of 180 million, of which 140 million and a little more than that from Europe, would either have gone to the city very expensive, actually impossibly expensive, or it would not have been carried out. But then there'd be fines on your neck, and there'd be such a thing going on that nobody would have had enough. I am saying that this investment was not made for one year, it was made for at least 30 years. So thank God we've had this European money. In my opinion, the Estonian state has used it very wisely; it is mostly placed in infrastructure projects. The impact of such an investment will last tens, tens, and tens of years. Thank God! So this is what the Minister for Finance, the great majority of the investments made in the country with European money, were made wisely and further investments in this water and sewerage system were simply no longer coming. On the other hand, of course, I'd like to get paid. That's the attitude. I was just talking and suddenly Arkadi Raikin came to mind, maybe somebody in the hall remembers this actor. He was told that his company had burned down, and the damage was half a million rubles, and he said, "Oh, it's empty! ' But suddenly he pales and says, 'What half a million? 150 rubles! I left my coat in there! ' I mean, your 150 rubles are always more expensive than half a million people in the country. But we have taken a very bossy approach to this money. I think we can do this even if this money starts to go down. All the more so because we have GDP in an incredible growth trend.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U63	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U64	Thank you. Honourable waitress! First of all, I really liked the presentation by the Minister of Finance. His presentation was exactly as the presentation of one of the finance ministers must be. I really liked Aivar Sõerd's report. He was particularly concerned with the issues which the State Budget Control Commission has communicated to the government in order to improve the state's budgetary strategy. I also enjoyed your presentation because you concerned essentially that the budget strategy of the state has not been discussed in the Riigikogu, but there is a very high demand for it. Given the temporal aspect, would you agree that we, the opposition and the coalition, should somehow agree that the country's budgetary strategy should include all these points, the fundamental foundations, so that each Member can understand how the country's budget strategy is structured, and that it is the country's budgetary strategy that should include those points that are important for the future organisation of the state budget and the structure of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U65	Thank you. Yes, Inara, I think the country's budgetary strategy is a matter of taste, but certain points that would like to be added by some or others in this big hall should be included. I am also pleased about how the debate is going today, because it seems to me that there will be no viciousness here for a long time. It's a pretty calm, normal conversation, like it used to be in REKK. Yes, there are quite a number of issues that could be resolved in advance (I am not going to quote again), such as the points of the State Budget Act which require that, in order to be able to speak about the state budget, there should already be economic forecasts and all these other things. You could make some references that would give you the opportunity to discuss it without such a long-term effect, and you could also put certain points in it. Today, I heard a complaint that European subsidies will start to shrink, and there should be a separate chapter on this. There may be different opinions. I do not think that a specific chapter is needed. It seems to me to be panicking that, oh-oh-oh, European money is going to disappear, which we are now going to do, and gives some people the opportunity to say that they cannot do anything without European money. In fact, that is not the case. However, I do think that this topic could be thought out and included. The State Budget Act is a living mechanism, like any law, that could be improved in this direction. So I agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U66	Anne Sulling, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U67	Good President! Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The promotion of economic growth in Estonia is mentioned as a priority of the state's budget strategy. It is noted that sustainable growth will help to ensure better funding for science. As we know, research will have an impact on economic growth when research results are applied to the creation of new products and services. But I did not see any measures in the country's budgetary strategy that would help convert research results into economic value. My question is whether you discussed them in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and what conclusions you reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U68	Thank you. Two things I'd like to say. The verbatim report of 3 May 2011 was also recalled. It was a difficult time, it was after a very deep crisis, but in his presentation at the time, the Minister of Finance, who is standing right next to you, stated in a separate section that we are contributing to economic growth. In his speech, there was such a point at the time. I mean, in any case, we always have to find opportunities for economic growth, no matter what the circumstances. As far as scientific progress is concerned, I must honestly admit that in these mechanisms I do not orient in such detail in order to specifically take out one chapter, one page and one line from there, and to carry out an analysis on this subject, unless I have been informed of this in the past. I'll probably owe you an answer. But in order to have a clear conscience, I solemnly report to you that the debate on today's item was held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday, 7 May. Everything relating to the RES was discussed for a very long time, until the end of working hours, but that is precisely the aspect that you spoke of in your question, unfortunately, was not mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U69	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U70	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The previous waitress briefly told us about the deficit and the structural balance that has become our main starting point for assessing the state of the state budget, but I must also refer to the possible inaccuracies in the calculation of the structural position linked to the assessment of the GDP gap. I will use the available data, namely, for example, that when the Ministry of Finance calculated a surplus of 0.7% of GDP as a structural position in 2014, the European Commission estimated a balance of 0% of GDP. This means that the discrepancy in the assessment of the GDP gap was more than striking. In this context, I wonder whether the primary objective of the RES should in any case be to achieve structural surpluses or whether we are based on the principle of structural balance, and the main objective could be, for example, to ensure economic growth in the medium or long term, as highlighted by the last meeting of the OECD parliamentary assembly in London.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U71	Thank you. At first, it was a wish to say that you, Brutus, too, will stick a knife in your back, put this conversation back in the suspicious zone where we're going to talk about an existing or nonexistent deficit or surplus. However, there is no way we can keep ourselves out of this, because the balance is required by the law of the Republic of Estonia; there must be balance here. Except it's all about judgment. As the Board says in its assessment of the RES, for example, it is estimated that we agree that we will achieve a balance, but for economic reasons, in order to achieve some other objectives, we will do so by 2022. If we answer a specific question at the end, I say that we do not move away from the principle that we need to be balanced, but we will extend the period during which this objective will be achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U72	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U73	Good vice chairman! Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'm sure you remember those times when there was cash-based financial reporting and the budgets were accrual-based. I'm sure you encountered all of this as the mayor. At the same time, we know that a dizzy financial management reform has indeed been carried out in Estonia. In your report, you actually talked a lot about the fact that we're talking about the ultimate goal, not these specific numbers or costs. My question comes about this whole more efficient country and the ideology it carries. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in parallel with the country's budgetary strategy, has it been discussed at what stage we are in this activity-based budgeting, so that we are talking precisely about the objectives that must be met, bearing in mind that strategies and budgets are actually these instruments, and precisely here, too, is this place for us Members?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U74	Thank you. Very possibly. This coincides with the question of Inara Luigas that what we want to achieve with the RES and what information we want to get out of it easily. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we did not specifically discuss whether it was accrual-based or not. You reminded me of the experience of local government management. I had some 20 ideas I wanted to talk about, but there's just not enough time for that, so I'm not gonna do it this time. But yes, if one person wants to get a specific thing, specifically in a sphere, it could be, for example, an increase in the teachers' payroll, either in the next financial year or in four years, then he gets those simple numbers, those 40 million. The second wants to get what is more complicated, perhaps not as understandable as we are discussing the state budget, but it is possible to talk about them during the debate on the national budget strategy. If I understand correctly, the question was about the same as Mr Luigas. I think all these things could have been discussed, and they could have been in the strategy. Or... All right, I'll tell you in five minutes. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U75	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U76	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr Mikhail, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, In recent days, you have been very involved in analysing the country's budgetary strategy. Knowing you as a very pragmatic person who takes life completely in reality, I ask you: what are the "better tracks" of this budget strategy in the interests of Estonia's development and what are you deeply in mind about or what do you think it could have been different?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U77	Thank you. Yes, I have a clear idea of what could be different, but I would not want to ruin this beautiful domestic peace here in the Riigikogu. I'm not gonna talk about it. However, when it comes to what you like and what could have been even more developed, it is economic development. These are specific measures that help those who actually support the Estonian economy, entrepreneurs, better organise their industry and employees to work in conditions that do not make them run away from Estonia. I think it could be our common goal, and that's what I like. I spoke to a few entrepreneurs in my neighborhood. They took the most positive news that there will be a tax truce next year. So much has been said that there would be at least one year like this, but we can hope that we will not talk about this for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U78	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You were chairman of the National Budget Control Committee for many years, and now you are chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You were also one of the co-authors of this Kõljala report. Are the recommendations and suggestions made in this report on how to increase the role of the Riigikogu in the discussion of the state's budget strategy realising, or is there something important missing? In what direction should the proposals in this report proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U80	Thank you. I have to fix right away that I was a co-author, yes, but a co-author who didn't move a finger. Kristjan did all the work, so there was no need for me to replace him by giving an interview or correcting the text. So it's Kristjan's made from the beginning to the end. I would add that all these proposals, which were the result of this report, found consensus in the REKK. I cannot comment on the current situation, but I call it consensus when everyone is present and agrees with the offer, not in the absence of the parties, and the rest then consensually have found a position that does not really mean consensus. At that time, it stood still because it caused certain administrative problems. This caused a headache, of course, to the Ministry of Finance, but to some others. If we have come so far now that we are talking about this issue in this big hall, I will say that I do not care about this matter at all. I think we should come back to this report. Perhaps he is calling for renewal, modernisation on some issues, but in principle he deserves to be considered in full as proposals to the government. I repeat, in any case, we should review everything that has to do with the RES. Today it was under discussion because we are not doing it for the coalition, the opposition or some kind of lobby, we are doing it for ourselves, for everyone. The REKK is a consensual committee where, in fact, no decision is taken without the fundamental issues being discussed in advance in the political groups, the political groups having given their consent and this has been confirmed. This means that this decision should be appropriate for the whole of Parliament. So I think there are enough of these proposals. Let's start talking about them. This document was either in a coma or in a dream, it's a good time to wake it up and come back to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U81	Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin, for your presentation and your answer to questions. Good afternoon, everyone. Next, I would like to ask for a presentation by Andrus Alber, Vice-Chairman of the Budget Council of the Speaker's Board. The presentation lasts up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U82	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to present the opinions and comments of the Fiscal Council in this session. In the State Budget Act, the mandate of the Board of Budgets is very clearly set out: we are a council that assesses the country's macroeconomic forecasts and financial forecasts and monitors compliance with the budgetary rules set out in the Act, the main rule of structural balance for the government sector. This will be assessed by the Board. Before that, it will also assess macroeconomic forecasts each spring. The Board shall be obliged to give its opinion on the national budgetary strategy before the adoption of the budgetary strategy by the Government. However, this strategy can only emerge a few days before the government plans to endorse it, which means, as the Minister pointed out earlier, that the Fiscal Council must carry out its analysis and often make its assessment in a situation where the budgetary strategy is not quite ready. It really sets certain limits on what we can say and in what context we express our opinion. National 2019/2022. According to the fiscal strategy for 2010, the objective of government fiscal policy is at least a structural balance over the medium term. In order to achieve this objective, the government outlined in the debate a series of measures on both the revenue and expenditure side, which are expected to improve the budgetary position over the next four years. As a result, as has been repeatedly said today, the state budget should be in a small nominal surplus and structural balance in the years 2019 to 2022. According to the Board, the objectives as such are in accordance with the law, but additional measures may not, in our view, bring the expected additional revenue. The Minister of Finance also highlighted and commented on the points of risk that we referred to in our opinion. Firstly, additional tax revenues expected from labour taxes, or additional dividend income, may not be realised in such a way. For example, dividends from state-owned enterprises expected by the state by 2021 are the largest ever. According to the Board of Budgets, the objective of the law is to achieve balance, but once again I would like to stress that, in our view, achieving the objective essentially requires the successful implementation and realisation of all the proposed measures. When we look back on earlier years, we see that there have always been intentions that have not actually been fulfilled. This is why in our comments and recommendations we have assessed the risks, drawn attention to them and recommended certain buffers in the design of the targets. When it comes to the economic cycle and whether there is a small deficit or balance in today's economic environment, if we have tried to assess the situation of the Estonian economy using very different indicators If you ask whether the surplus is an end in itself, it is certainly not, it must be seen in a wider context. If we all agree that a deficit could be justified in bad economic times, then there will be a question of when there will be a justified surplus if not a good economic growth in the environment where we are now. The government's budget strategy as well as the state budget law also say that it is possible to go into a certain disadvantage at the expense of past surpluses, but if these surpluses have not been collected, then it is impossible to go down in bad years. So this is the context in which, in our own assessment, we have also advised the government to draw up the 2019 budget in such a way that the budget is in structural surplus and not just balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U83	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Hatter, first question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U84	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! How has your Council approached the issue of the change in the size of the state budget versus the European Union's resources? Do you see some aspects that should be addressed here? I would pay particular attention to the fact that the number of central government officials is increasing, partly covered by European Union funds, but at the same time we know that the population is falling, the number of taxpayers is decreasing. Is that promising?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U85	Thank you. I deliberately referred at first to our mandate, which is enshrined in the law. It is not our job to assess whether one or the other sources of revenue are the most politically sensible or whether one or the other cost priorities are reasonable. We look at revenue and expenditure in this context as a whole and we look at whether the estimates of revenue and forecasts are adequate. Whether one or the other specific item of expenditure is financed by European Union money, Estonian tax money or through dividends from state companies, we do not have a mandate to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U86	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Alber! You indicated that in the context of unemployment, employment, tax receipts and all of this, a budget surplus would be necessary, and you actually had very little time to give your position to the Government of the Republic. Similarly, you have doubts about the receipt of additional revenue, there are a number of points on which you have expressed a certain difference of opinion. My question is, how does the Fiscal Council now interact with the Government of the Republic? Have you had a meeting with the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister? Has your views been responded and how will this process proceed now? After all, the 2019 state budget is coming up, and in the autumn we are probably facing these same problems again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U88	Thank you. I'm just browsing the papers to see if I'm carrying a memorandum of cooperation between the Budget Council and the Ministry of Finance. This sets out, at least in what time we need information on both the budgetary strategy and the economic forecasts. Even before this memorandum of cooperation was drawn up, we had established good practice over the years that the Ministry of Finance, in particular, introduced economic forecasts before they were made public. In turn, we have always been able to ask for the various additional information we have needed. We certainly have no complaints to the Ministry of Finance about cooperation and sharing information. Why do I want to stress that? I know that in some countries there is a major problem with the fact that the Board is not receiving information, having been in contact with its colleagues in fiscal councils in other countries. I'm sure we don't have any complaints here. The time limit is in some respects due to the speed with which decisions are taken by the government after the forecasts are made. It has been good practice that we have been invited to a meeting of the Government of the Republic to discuss the country's budgetary strategy and economic forecasts. We have expressed our opinion there, but we are the consultative body and it is the government's decision how much they take into account our comments, how much they do not. Again, both the law and our memorandum of cooperation determine who and in what form should share explanations and comments if our recommendations are not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U89	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Vice-Chairman of the Fiscal Council, Your report reminded me of a statement that in 2021 it is planned to take the largest dividends ever made by state companies. You have stressed on several occasions that you have a consultative role. However, I ask what are the weaknesses and strengths of such a plan. What comment would you make to those who approve of such an all-time largest dividend plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U91	Thank you. On the basis of the information at our disposal, the state really expects state companies to pay over 200 million dividends in 2021. In comparison, less than EUR 150 million were received in dividends last year, for example. Foreseeing dividends for a long time requires a very good ability to anticipate both the economic cycle and the economic activity of companies. As we know, there are actually a very limited number of state companies where most of this sum comes together (Estonian Energia, Port of Tallinn). Why did we draw special attention to this risk? Again, looking back in history, we have seen that the profitability of Eesti Energia has depended very much on the price of oil and, in turn, on the price of oil shale oil, the profitability of the Port of Tallinn has depended very much on transit and passenger shipping and tourist flows. In our view, we do not have this knowledge that would allow us to assess that in three or four years' time, these dividends will be significantly higher. This may be because we do not have all the detailed information available to the government that made such a forecast. That is why we can draw attention to places of risk where we do not think that everything might go as planned. But more accurate estimates and, let's say, alternative calculations we don't do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U92	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U93	Thank you. Mr. Alber! In my view, the government's promise of structural balance is low ambition, worse yet, in my opinion, this matter is pierced and tragedy. One point which is very disturbing is the argument that certain government costs generate additional jobs. How do you assess this forecasting approach, which is generally viewed as high figures, it is recognised that the neck of the bottle is a labour force, but then it is said that a barrel in construction, where the lack of labour is the most screaming, and in industry, where the lack of labour is screaming largely because of construction, the costs or the regulations that are being released, in turn, increases tax receipts and creates a balance? How logical and risky does this forecast seem to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U94	Thank you. Yes, we highlighted this because we clearly believe that there is a contradiction there. This contradiction is also slightly wider in the sense that the country's fiscal strategy is based on certain economic forecasts and then the government announces some of the measures it intends to take, but the "recalculation" of the impact of these measures is no longer forecasted. Indeed, it can be argued that it is based on some assumptions and other assumptions, but how, in the light of these new assumptions, these initial assumptions will change, in our view, is not sufficiently taken into account. That is why we wanted to mention this aspect separately this time. If I have rightly noted, the Minister of Finance, in his commentary, did not rule out that this so-called extermination effect actually exists. He thought the risk was small or the effect was minimal, but it's definitely there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U95	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There has been talk of structural balance over and over. My question is whether the Fiscal Council, together with the Ministry of Finance, has discussed what a common methodology could be used to calculate the balance or balance of the budgetary strategy so that it would overlap in the future. They're always so different now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U97	Thank you. The budgetary balance assessment consists of a series of components. There is a nominal balance in which the Fiscal Council actually uses the figure that has been put together by the Ministry of Finance. In assessing the nominal balance, we ourselves do not make any alternative calculations. Where are the differences, not only between us and the evaluation of the Ministry of Finance, but also between us, the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission, for example? These are the result of two components in particular. One is the effect of one-off transactions and the other is called a cyclical component, which is where we are in our economic circumstances. For one-off assessments, it is likely that it is quite difficult to reach a common understanding. A few years ago there were many disputes between the Estonian authorities and the European Commission; they concerned additional payments to the second pillar of the pension, whether they were one-off and whether their termination was one-off or not. In the context of last year, one can give an example of paying the municipal merger fees, whether and how much. As Mr Sõerd mentioned earlier, the European Commission's interpretation of the impact of one-off measures is somewhat different than that of the Ministry of Finance. This is the component of the debate to which the Fiscal Council does not intervene very actively, as is the interpretation of the European Commission and the Ministry of Finance. The third point concerns the cyclical assessment of the economy. The aim here is to harmonise the methodology as much as possible, but once again, as it is an assessment, it is very difficult to achieve 100% coincidence. This is not just an Estonian issue. When assessing whether the economy is doing very well, well, almost well or a little badly, there are differences in comparison between other countries and other institutions. So here, I'm afraid, I can't get the perfect picture. But that is also the reason why, not only in this debate on the budgetary strategy for the year, but also in dealing with the specific budgets for previous years, we have recommended some additional buffers in terms of surplus, so if it later becomes clear whether the cycle was different or one-off measures were taken differently, then there would still be no risk of breach of the budget rules. But the harmony, the fear, cannot be achieved here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U98	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! According to the law, you have to assess public finances. I am asking you how you assess the state of our national reserves from the point of view of public financial forecasts. The central government is known to have two main reserves. In the stabilisation reserve there are about 400 million, which is even less than before the previous crisis, but then there was also the budget volume, the revenue volume twice as much. There are about 700 million in the liquidity reserve, but there are also funds from the sickness fund and the unemployment fund. We are talking now, in good times, about the fact that we even have to cover the country's negative cash flow with essentially the money of the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund. How do you assess this situation in the perspective? This fine economic situation does not last very long and we need to prepare for difficult and narrower economic circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U100	Thank you. The size of the reserves, either in relation to the budget or in relation to the revenue planned for the current year, is not assessed separately by us. In discussions, the size of reserves as a separate dimension is more background information for us than a separate indicator on which we are shaping the opinion. As I pointed out above, surely sometime these years will come if the economy is not doing so well and if there is an acceptable deficit with international and Estonia's own budget rules, and then reserves may be needed. So, in our opinion, it would really make sense to gather these reserves at a time when the economy is doing very well, perhaps now. Should the budget surplus be exactly as many million or some other amount? Should reserves reach 4 billion or 3.5 billion? These are aspects that the Board has not dealt with, precisely because this is not what our mandate provides for. But as a general macroeconomic comment, yes, we continue to believe that, in good years, the objective should be a surplus, not just a budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U101	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Fiscal Council, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U103	Let's move on with the negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of political groups may speak. At the request of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I propose to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups first take the floor. As a representative of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the second budgetary strategy of this government. In a slightly different format, we discussed the first one. At that time, according to statistics, economic growth was about as high as today, with the difference that it was accelerating at that time, supported by the entire external environment. Now it is projected to be slowing down, with news of the deterioration of the external environment coming at the end of the RES, this has been acknowledged by the forecasters. If we compare the rhetoric of the government for two years, as well as the stated goals or indicators, we can see that the story has become quite the opposite. Both budgets are responsible and sustainable in both cases multiplied by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, except that once both nominal and structural minus were advertised in improving economic conditions, in a deteriorating economic situation, all this is advertised as a nominal surplus and structural balance. So in itself, this government has schizophrenic talk, but at least it's heading towards the truth. In this sense, you have to start with a positive note. However, as if the government could understand what it means to manage finance, it still cannot be said. The Minister of Finance presented here as a great victory the way in which, thanks to the euro money reserve, it was a performance reserve that had been planned, it was known that for good use, extra money can be covered with euro money. Imagine! We have asked several times what an exit strategy is, how to reduce this dependency, and then the Minister of Finance comes and says that, you know, we have had the opportunity to spend more euro money, we have now increased dependency. It's such a childish statement that, frankly, it deserves a monument. There are, of course, still those holes left for the next governments, which are actually in this promise of balance. Apart from the euro money reserve, which no longer exists and which must be covered even more by the existing tax money, we mention dividends. That's what we've been talking about here today. Such record dividends at a time when the economy is probably still at its top, but starting to fall, is the wrong step. These numbers are a little incredible. You might suspect there's some kind of combination behind here with the sale of a subsidiary and the withdrawal of money from the parent company. We didn't get a direct confirmation from the government, but if that's the case, it's a one-off profit again. You shouldn't really draw a balance like that. Once again, the responsibility remains with the next government. The reserves are being drained here. If the money from the privatisation of the property reform reserve fund, the creation of this fund, had a solid legal reason, then the individual decisions will now start to honour the electoral promises given to the interest groups: thrown to the church, thrown to the apartment buildings of Kohtla-Järve. All of this can be recorded in the budget, but it will once again empty the stock of ownership reform, which is at times quite critical in the exercise of its core tasks, is actually cynical. You could have written it into the budget and argued about it, but they're coming to do it in passing. Of course, several things have been shouted out, from the city hall to the roads and railways, which are not written directly at the end of the RES... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U105	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U106	... but the promise is made, the thing is set in motion, and in the future there will be a problem who will fulfill this promise and who will cover it. This includes, for example, border building. It was expensive, but there's no appreciation in the RES. Again, there is a voltage inside which is not declared. The most disgusting thing about this is these evicted raises. In fact, multiple wage increases should not be stacked in one year today. They should be dispersed, it has a better effect on people. But here, 20% and 18% are thrown at once for the election year, and then zero is shown. This is a very harsh trial for the next government to meet the expectations that have been raised. In doing so, the Minister of Finance's comment on the RES was so victorious that we are planning a balance here, but when other coalitions come, they must decide whether they can continue. It's very cynical. You've made the mine tick and say you were the heroes in the good times. As far as reserves are concerned, the situation is actually not bad in terms of net reserves. However, these monetary fluctuations confuse the picture, with the collection and use of euro money in different cycles. Nevertheless, it is a fact that if there were more reserves, the state would be stronger and more flexible in its use of money. In such golden times as it has been for two years, we should have been put aside. This is certainly the case for the Minister of Finance to go under the bar in this sense, apart from the fact that he has never really been able to talk about rationality and sustainability. Fortunately, net assets are improving, but once again, there is little cursed compared to the possibilities. The Centre Party, led by the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, but also by its members, has desperately tried to challenge the example of structural balance, but still in its favour that the assessment of the structural divide is in fact inaccurate. Look, I always like to be wrong for my own good so I can spend more. The European methodology is always tougher, but I think the difference is greater now than otherwise, although it is a few percent tenths, it is not very big, but it is a matter of principle. This was one of the main reasons why we avoided an exact zero and made a budget with structural surpluses. We knew it would be adjusted. So, yeah, there's been a discrepancy before, but we haven't been as selfish as this government. We think that if last year was structurally negative and even nominally negative, then this year there must be a structural surplus. In this sense, we agree with the Fiscal Council and Eesti Pank. I also note that I do not have the most recent data, but I know that we are at the end of the line in Europe, we are one of the poorest of our budgets, perhaps the worst of all, if we dismantle our loan obligations. In this sense, we are still in a very poor state that has never been before, because we have always been at the top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U107	Thank you. Enn Meri on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu has recently received the document 'State Budget Strategy 2019.22022 and Stability Programme 2018'. After all, the document is well structured and could be accepted in principle, but there are also shortcomings and I would like to comment on them. Firstly, the strategy talks about both big things and huge costs, as well as details or small things. The decrease in EU subsidies is not clearly visible. The state's fiscal strategy does not take into account the fact that the Estonian economy has a slight overheating and there is a risk that it may not end well. The situation is quite similar to 2008 and 2009 when we also had one homemade real estate crisis in addition to the international financial crisis. As then, our construction sector is doing well and we need a workforce there. The workforce will be recruited from the processing industry, where there will be a shortage of labour. Other sectors of the Estonian economy also sense labour shortages. Some people do, but they don't have the right education or experience. I'll come back to that later. In such an economic situation, our country should be very cautious about its investments, especially the construction of construction sites. One should look at what John Maynard Keynes wrote in 1936 in his book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money. That's true today. Keynes claims that the government sector must operate in a countercyclical way, which means that if the economy is doing well, the government will build up reserves, and vice versa, if the economy is not doing well, the government will put the reserves to work. This recommendation has also been heard from Eesti Pank and I think it should be taken seriously. Unfortunately, we do not find much of this kind of action in the country's budget strategy, but they invest quite properly. I would like to come back to the labour problem, which is an important part of our economic problem. The solution cannot be to bring the Russian, Ukrainian or Belarusian people here. In fact, we have some of the people we need, but they do not have the required education or experience. I am talking about both young and older people who have remained outside the labour market. A young person goes to learn something that he thinks is nice and awesome, but he does not always wonder if he finds a job in this field. Older people outside the labour market may be without the required education, but this can be improved. For young people, a number of things need to be done at once. Firstly, proper career guidance should be provided for school pupils. Secondly, there should be an education system and the creation of study places in areas where we will see the need for labour in the future, and a reduction in study places in areas where we cannot see the future. Thirdly, the student loan system needs to be changed so that students can live on student loans without having to work alongside learning. Older people would need to be re-trained along with practice in order to acquire a new profession, and they should be paid during retraining and also during traineeships. If necessary, the country should support moving to where the work is available. Some of these measures can be seen in the country's budget strategy, but there could be more. Finally, I would like to comment on the energy chapter of the country's budget strategy on page 53. Secure and cheap energy is vital for the economy. There is no word in the country's budget strategy about our most important energy source, namely oil shale. I would like to draw the attention of honourable colleagues to the fact that modern oil shale boilers can be significantly reduced in this way... Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U109	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U110	Thank you. ... soot as well as sulphur emission. However, in the country's budgetary strategy, I note that the share of imported energy is planned to increase from 6.8% to 20%. I assume that they are thinking of switching to gas heating, but I would remind you that Estonia is capable of producing between 400000 and 500000 tonnes of oil shale oil per year. Is it going to be replaced by gas now? And what happens at the cost of energy? I think it would make sense to further develop our oil shale technology and exploit our large oil shale reserves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U111	Thank you, Enn Meri! Next, I would like to ask for a chair of speech from the Group of the Central Party of Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U112	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate provides an opportunity to send out two messages. One concerns this debate and the RES itself. We absolutely need to remember what it sounded like and take the opportunity that no one who took part in the debate said a word against the fact that the RES discussions must become traditional. All we need to do is solve this problem, how we schedule it and under what conditions we do it. As some have said here, we need to know which conditions should be laid down for the RES. This is what should find a continuation of the state budget control in the Commission. I think this is the best place to make such decisions and proposals, as it is a consensual decision-making committee. If there is a decision taken by consensus with the participation of all the Members of the Commission, we will not have a serious dispute here as to whether or not to adopt it. To put it frankly, this is an amendment to the State Budget Act. The second message concerns the factual element contained in the RES. This includes the state budget, i.e. all spheres of our lives, for several years. This means that this is not only about a specific budget, but also about our fantasies about how this whole mechanism will develop in the future. It cannot be said that there is a constant increase in average wages, which is relatively real when looking at the main points of the RES. The fact that it will reach EUR 1628 in 2022 is not a matter of what the value of the euro can be at this point is very positive. As another very positive thing, whatever is predicted, the RES is forecasting a slowdown in prices, the fall in inflation will become stable between 2021 and 2022 and remain at 2%. It's a very positive phenomenon for every person. People appreciate whether economic policy is successful, depending on how much money is left in their wallet after everything they need has been bought. The third point I draw attention to is what I talked about in the previous presentation. That's the tax truce. We have survived certain tax reforms. What is extremely positive is that our tax burden is, firstly, below the average level of the European Union and, secondly, it does not grow significantly even compared to what it was before the start of the reforms and is 34%, not to mention that our debt burden will decrease by 2022 and everything that is needed will be balanced. So as a cautious person, I'd say this RES looks really good, even too good. Perhaps it would have been necessary to predict all this a little more cautiously, but unfortunately it is also based on the results and forecasts of the studies. So it is very good that we have such a strategy. Let's hope everything goes as it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U113	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will come here a moment more, but not as a representative of the Committee on State Budget Control and not as a representative of a group, but as a reflection of some thoughts and details on the presentation of the Minister of Finance, which still left a rosy impression on the government's budgetary policy. Well, it is not rosy, nor is there anywhere to see responsible fiscal policy. We have the European Commission's forecast freshly on the table. What do we see in there? There's some pretty surprising numbers. We know how difficult some euro area countries were following the debt crisis due to their fiscal deficit and debt burden. The improvement in the situation has been striking over the past two years. This has been made possible by national efforts, but certainly the favourable economic environment has also supported these developments. Some numbers. While the euro area budget deficit was 1.5% of GDP in 2016, this year it will fall to 0.4%. These are historically small numbers when we talk about countries with a longer economic tradition in the European Union and take into account the difficulties these countries have faced. In this same forecast, the following numbers for Estonia are exactly the same, in structural terms, comparable numbers: in 2016 there were 0.4 and this year there are 1.3%. Well, exactly the opposite direction. Where is responsible fiscal policy here? Go on. The Minister talked about the fact that we do not collect reserves because we pay back public debt from reserves. What are you talking about? We pay back public debt according to current charts and these repayments must be made not from reserves previously collected, but from current tax revenues. Otherwise, the other Member States of the European Union would not have achieved this situation. They have much higher debts and much higher interest rates to serve. This has to be done from current tax revenues, not from reserves collected with great effort. The Minister said that we will have a large refund of EUR 72 million next year. In 2007, we paid back 110 million, but then the budget volume, the revenue volume was half that. So this is inappropriate, and under no circumstances does it justify abandoning the collection of reserves in good times. Let's look at our reserves. The central government has two main reserves. The stabilisation reserve has a size of 420 million, which is even less than before the last economic crisis, but then the budget was half that size. The second reserve also includes the unemployment fund and the sickness fund, which currently accounts for about 720 million euros, less than the deposit of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund's money. Indeed, there may be fluctuations here, affecting the European Union's money, also privatisation, or, let us say, an additional issue of state-owned companies or shares... Please additionally...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U115	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U116	... the money that can be received. But the prognosis doesn't indicate that the central government reserves are increasing. I'm coming to privatization. However, the general principle is that this money will be placed in a stabilisation reserve with long-term deposits of money so that future risks can be mitigated in exceptional circumstances. But no, that money will be used immediately. We have been informed about this year that additional dividends will be taken in connection with the issue of shares in the Port of Tallinn, which will not go to the stabilisation reserve. Yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we heard that the sale of the subsidiary of Eesti Energia could also result in extraordinary money, which is not likely to go into the stabilisation reserve, because it is included in the measures by which this structural minus 0.7% of GDP was brought to zero. So I don't see any responsible fiscal policy anywhere. If we do not build up reserves in good times, it will be very difficult to cope in the future in economically tighter times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U117	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Helir-Valdor Seeder, I have a question: would anyone like to speak again? Are we going to extend the hearing or not? If anyone wants to speak, press the button, please! [[A voice from the hall.]] Okay. Looks like there's no one to ask. Helir-Valdor Seeder, speaker, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the parties involved, in particular the Committee on State Budget Control, for the fact that there is a debate on the state budget strategy and the issue of the state budget strategy and the preparation of national budgets in this Chamber. I am one of those ambassadors who thinks that the role of the Riigikogu in shaping the state budget and the state's budget strategy is too modest and the executive power has a disproportionate role to play here. It's not exactly balanced. Through such discussions, I believe, we are moving towards a greater role and more information for Parliament in the future, and a greater opportunity to shape public finance policy in the long term. Now, when comparing the national budget strategy 2019.22022 with previous national budgetary strategies, I dare say that it is at the same level in qualitative terms. It does not stand out the particular deterioration in quality or the greater irresponsibleness that several ambassadors have said in this debate. I would even dare to say the opposite: given that the country's fiscal strategy has been drawn up in a structural balance in the medium term, enabling reserves to be collected in years of economic growth, it is a reasonable step towards responsible fiscal policy. That's definitely right. I will not speak here today as a representative of the coalition or government. Therefore, I am not going to list all the problems that have been resolved in the country's budget strategy, which is good there, but I want to highlight these persistent problems in the drafting of the country's budgetary strategy, which I believe are of an organisational nature and which have been up since year after year, some of them have also deepened as a process, and in the long term we must certainly try to resolve them together. First of all, the country's budget strategy should probably be a strategic document, but we are moving in the opposite direction. The preparation of the state budget strategy and the state budget for the following year have been brought together in one process, which has resulted in the country's budgetary strategy being largely a state budget for the following year, which seeks to establish as precisely as possible, so that there is as little debate as possible during the debate on a specific state budget in the autumn and this would go as quickly and smoothly as possible. As a result, the RES focuses as closely as possible on the next year, and this is what we are talking about here, and the more distant years are so-called abstractly sidetracked, such a longer view tends to disappear. This is definitely a problem that has been getting worse from year to year. We should check it out, it doesn't make sense. Secondly, the compatibility of the RES with the development plans. Perhaps we are already gradually abandoning it, because development plans are more of a fictional reading material that is not very closely linked to the actual state budget financial opportunities. If we read sectoral development plans and look at the RES, we will see that this consistency is not very good. The next thing is the growing leading role of the Ministry of Finance in preparing the country's budget strategy, which means that this document is becoming a dry financial document, but not a development-oriented political document, which is also financially covered. This accounting approach, based on the Excel table, will dominate the competences of the sectors. Now, if I express myself with great relief, I can say that the head of table at the Ministry of Finance is perhaps more important in the process of drawing up the state budget strategy than the Minister for Industry, because he says what the new activities are and what the completed activities are. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U119	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U120	This is certainly not a balanced approach. As a result, we may have a very exemplary financial-economic RES and budget, but not the most sensible country's budgetary strategy in the long term, given the development needs of the sector. Next, the autonomy of the constitutional institutions, which has also been discussed. I do not think that this is such a strategic issue, but it is also a matter on which we should think that if there is a dispute between the executive power and the constitutional institutions, where it will be resolved as objectively and independently as possible. Next, the role of Parliament and the role of the country in drawing up the budgetary strategy from which I started. I think that Parliament should play a greater role in both cases. We should also think that, some time ago, when we separated the process of drawing up the state budget and, let's say, introducing or amending taxes to give the various parties six months before the tax changes came into force, we separated certain processes that had previously been together. Perhaps now we are discussing tax policy earlier, and we are discussing the state budget in the autumn, essentially without any tax changes, which makes the situation difficult, perhaps especially for the opposition, because it is not possible to offer tax policy changes as a source of cover. Ideally, however, I would see the drawing up of the state budget and the debate on tax policy more or less go hand in hand and at the same time, but they are now divorced. There's no good solution here, but in any case, it's a place to think. One more point. That's what we've been talking about here today. I would like to stress that this is not a particular feature of the current government or of the newly approved country's budgetary strategy, but it has deepened and developed over long years and has been a problem for several previous governments and government coalitions. This is our increasing dependence on European Union subsidies, we are trying to cover Estonia's fixed costs with temporary European Union subsidies and project-based money. This has been a growing trend, which certainly makes sense to look very critically, all the more so since, in the long term, the proportion of European Union subsidies, as well as the absolute amount of subsidies, may not increase, but rather decrease. But in any case, I would also like to stress that the problems I have highlighted are long-term, not only the problems of drawing up a country's budget strategy for this particular year, and we should look at them all together, no matter who is then in opposition and who is in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U121	Thank you. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Special Committee on State Budget Control has proposed to extend the session until 14 p.m. if necessary. Let's prepare the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Special Committee on State Budget Control to extend the session until 14 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, the session will run until 14:00. [[Voices from the floor.]] Fourteen. What did I tell you? [[Voices from the floor.]] Got it. All right, address chair, Liisa Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U122	Ladies and gentlemen, I am obviously honoured to be the last speaker of the country's budgetary strategy. This has now been discussed here for three hours and with different thoroughness. I would like to say on behalf of myself and on behalf of our group that there is a right to be quite proud of the country's budgetary strategy for the years 2019 to 2022. This strategy will contribute to making our society smarter, safer and fairer. I want to point out a few points that have a heart and a soul, but what has not been done so far. These are the things that guarantee precisely this smarter, safer and fairer society. First of all, security. The new year will be a considerable wage leap in the area of internal security. The average wages of the rescuers, which have been long too low, will increase by nearly 20%, to EUR 1000, and the average wages of the police officers will increase by 10%. The focus of the coming year will be on internal security, because security is the foundation of the development of our society. Secondly, the same thing I called the smarter society. We have received permanent funding for the language learning programme, which funds 'citizens' contracts'. From next year, adult people who have lived in Estonia for at least five years and who fulfil the conditions for applying for the basic citizenship and wish to apply for Estonian citizenship, will receive free B1 and, with the agreement of the employer, will receive paid study leave. Applying for citizenship must not go beyond being able to pay for studies in the Estonian language or to find time to study the language alongside their duties. If a person really wants to contribute to our society and has chosen to want citizenship, then he must also be given opportunities to do so. The aim is to get 1,000 people to study through contracts next year. This is a very important step forward. Under the leadership of this government, priority funding for education will continue. Thus, the minimum teacher's salary will rise to EUR 1250 in 2019. I would like to point out that in 2014, the teacher's minimum wage was 800 euros. In the same way, the minimum wage of a cultural worker with higher education will rise to EUR 1250. It's very important. We have talked very much about science and innovation. I am pleased to note that science will receive an additional EUR 20 million next year, and the IT sector, one of our great pride, will receive EUR 116 million, particularly in order to develop better quality e-services. We have a world-wide image of a leading e-state, but Estonia's IT development has been dependent for years mainly on one-off injections of structural funds, but no later resource for the development and maintenance of these information systems has been found. This is actually the result of what has been very much recently mentioned in our media, that e-services are becoming increasingly uncomfortable to use and national information systems are not evolving in time, we are only erasing fires. I'm sorry to say this, but we've been ignoring this for a long time. The area now received substantial additional funding to modernise these services and information systems over the next year. The amount is really impressive. There has been a long discussion, but it is only a matter of strengthening our External Action Service. For this purpose, EUR 15 million will be allocated to the RES over the next four years, which means that the wage increase of the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs next year will be one of the largest in history. External service means people who are at the front line. There must be our best people there, but they cannot be hired for nothing. Personally, I would also like to emphasise that 1.5 million more will come to combat violence against women and promote equal treatment. This, too, shows that we are moving towards a society that is smarter, safer and fairer in every person's opinion, whether stronger or weaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U123	Thanks to the waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more requests to speak, so I will close the negotiations. We have finished discussing the crucial national question 'State Budget Strategy 2019 Thank all the waitresses! Thanks to the questioners! The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U124	Let's go to item 2 today. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Finance Committee, 'Appointing a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee' begins. The rapporteur is Priit Sibul, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, which was just read out by the Head of the title, was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 2, 16, 17 and 30 April. On 19 April, the Monetary Commission initiated the draft on the basis of Article 2 (3) of the Act on the ratification of the Nordic Investment Bank between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark and of the Act on the ratification of the Payment Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Nordic Investment Bank and the aforementioned Statutes of the Investment Bank. The Audit Committee shall be set up with a view to ensuring that the Bank's activities comply with the Statute. The members of the Control Committee shall be appointed for periods of two years, with a new period starting on 1 June 2018. During the last period, or immediately ending, from 1 June 2015 until 31 May 2018, i.e. until the end of this month, the Estonian representative on the Audit Committee was and will be a former member of the Riigikogu, Vice-Chairman of the Finance Committee Remo Holsmer, who was appointed as a member of this committee when he was Chairman of the Monetary Committee. The Monetary Committee proposes to appoint Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Financial Committee of the Riigikogu, as the representative of Estonia on the Nordic Audit Committee from 1 June 2018 to 31 May 2020. The deadline for submitting amendments was 27 April and no proposals were received. The Commission unanimously proposed to put this draft on today's agenda and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U126	Thank you, good waitress. Valdo Randpere has a question for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U127	Thank you. Since I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I intend to vote unanimously against this proposal. I have a question to ask you about this: do you understand why I'm doing this? Firstly, as far as I am concerned, Mr Stalnukhin has not shown any interest in international finance in the past, on the contrary, he has avoided all meetings on this subject. As far as I know, he doesn't speak English. But the official working language of the Nordic Investment Bank is English. I don't quite understand it. Didn't you discuss it at all? You will send a person to the Nordic Investment Bank's Audit Committee who does not speak the working language there. What's he gonna do in there? In addition, he does not master the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U128	Thank you. This issue was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U129	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U130	Thank you. Good Priit! I was present on the committee, but I was not in the group this morning because I had to be on the council. In the group, the same question that Valdo asked arose from two aspects. On the one hand, the lack of interest not only in international finance, but in the whole of it, Mikhail has repeatedly expressed himself. He says he's just doing a political job. Secondly, the group had the opinion that it really did not speak English. I have a problem now. I might have been able to speak in there, but at the moment, the group has shaped its opinion. Can the Commission confirm that Mikhail Stalnukhin has developed an interest in finance, as well as an English language skills enabling him to participate in the work of this important committee without showing himself and his country in a bad way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U131	Thank you. As I replied to Valdo, these issues were not discussed in the Commission. No one by 27 April, when there was a deadline for tabling amendments and the political groups had the opportunity to make proposals, did not take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U132	Thank you. Good Valdo Randpere, according to the Rules of Procedure, you can only ask one question. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U133	As inspired by the above questions, I ask you this question. A good waitress, what if it is not quite certain that a person can speak the language needed to participate in the work? What should we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U134	The Committee on Monetary Affairs has made its consensual decision and you can either support it or oppose it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U135	Good Valdo Randpere, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U136	You didn't turn off my microphone. I would have liked to ask the procedure myself. I ask the question, and Priit simply says that it was not discussed by the Commission. Then tell me, Priit, how do you feel about this personally? Isn't it a shame if we send a foreign person who doesn't speak foreign at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U137	Good questioner, that's not a procedural question. Jürgen Ligi, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U138	Thank you. I have a procedural question. What should be done in a situation where this question actually arose in the Commission and it did not receive an answer, but the chairman of the committee says that there was nothing like this? The language issue was an issue in the Commission. In such a situation, how can the hall find out that the question was still in question? How can I inform the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U139	Good questioner, unfortunately, I must admit that this is not a procedural question either. Okay, no more questions. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Would anyone from the political groups like to speak? No, I don't. So no amendments were tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 619. We will prepare the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Appointing a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee' presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There are 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, 8 against and 5 abstentions, 41 did not participate. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U140	Let's go to item 3. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Flag Act initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs begins. The rapporteur is Jaak Madison, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U141	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On 7 March the Constitutional Commission initiated the draft Act amending the Estonian Flag Act, which amends § 3 (2) of the Act and states precisely in the Act that the anthem of the Republic of Estonia is Paciuse 'My Fatherland is my arm'. Sorry, 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy'! In a hurry, the words get mixed up. In short, this is a draft initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was initiated by a group of the opposition party in February and which was rejected. However, in order to have the anthem of the Republic of Estonia mentioned somewhere in the law, it was considered reasonable to mention it in the Estonian Flag Act. According to this draft, § 3 (2) of the Act should read as follows: "When the flag of Estonia is raised, the Tall Hermann Tower is used as a musical signature for the anthem of the Republic of Estonia, Friedrich Paciuse 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy' (words Johann Voldemar Jannsen) and Gustav Ernesaksa 'My Fatherland is a signature based on my arm' (words Lydia Koidula) fragment. ' This draft was also supported by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 12 April, which has stated that it is a value standard and that the proposed solution is reasonable and purposeful. This draft was last dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 30 April. Only Jüri Adams and Hanno Pevkur were absent from this session, and all the other members were present. It was proposed to put the draft on the agenda for the meeting of 8 May (i.e. a consensual decision), to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed (also a consensual decision) and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 22 May 2018 (this decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U142	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U143	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Did it not make sense in the Commission to change the title of the law for a little while, because now the important thing for the Estonian state will finally be resolved? This is not the flag law alone, now the anthem will find a solution there too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U144	Thank you, Reverend Asker! It is true that, at the meeting on 7 March, when the issue of the initiation of the draft was on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there were very long and thorough disputes about such a solution. The speaker represented the view that such a solution would certainly not be sufficient, as the two national symbols have a separate law, unfortunately the anthem of the Republic of Estonia does not have it, and embedding the anthem of the Republic of Estonia in the flag law does not guarantee it the same level as the national and national symbols, as the two other symbols do. This is therefore certainly not the perfect solution for the speaker here. When we talk about the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, unfortunately, the majority thought that such a solution would be enough, because a better sparrow in his hand than a dove on the roof. So half the country we've moved on. So there's a place to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U145	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U146	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It was a great honour for me to replace a colleague in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs while this issue was being discussed. I remember when the vote went on, you distanced yourself and said you were neutral, but you wanted to introduce this draft on behalf of the committee. How can we reconcile two things, the desire to be impartial and the desire to present the draft on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U147	It is the charm and pain of democracy. I was really neutral at the committee meeting, because the draft is certainly a partial substitute for something that was rejected in this House and which would have created a separate Estonian Anthem Act. Since this is a legal reversal and nihilism, I decided to abstain. I did not object because the aim, as such, is not bad and I am delighted that the anthem of the Republic of Estonia will at least be mentioned somewhere in Estonian law. But why did I want to be a front speaker? This request was also supported by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with consensus, which I very much welcome. This is precisely because this issue is very, very important to me personally and to at least one parliamentary group here. However, I believe that this is certainly important for all political groups, including the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U148	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U149	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm asking for a memory update. Can you tell us what was the big, main reason for the need to legitimise the anthem of the Republic of Estonia? As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, can you say that this problem has been resolved? Did you report that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U150	To refresh memory, I say that this topic was raised very actively in January this year, after the anthem of the Republic of Estonia was not played as a precedent on New Year's Eve, followed by a very massive and bloated debate in the media about the need to change the anthem of the Republic of Estonia. It was like an artificial problem, but at the same time the anthem is one of our national and national symbols, which has been part of our daily lives for a hundred years. One of the factions of the Riigikogu considered it necessary to come up with a bill, a draft of the Anthem Act of the Republic of Estonia, as there is a state coat of arms law and there is an Estonian flag law, so these Estonian national and national symbols are mentioned in separate laws, but this right has not been given to the anthem of the Republic of Estonia. It was said to refresh the memory about the background of how we got to this discussion in the first place. However, as I said earlier, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the House did not consider this necessary. Is that right or wrong? I'm not going to make my assessment. As I am currently a representative of the Commission, I say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to come up with a draft law amending the Estonian Flag Act, so that the anthem of the Republic of Estonia would be marked in the Estonian Flag Act, which, as I said earlier, is a step in the right direction, I believe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U151	Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U152	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You described this problem. Why did the group that tabled the anthem law not propose any solution to this problem? For example, a list of media channels that should play the anthem of the Republic of Estonia on 1 January. Is this problem resolved in any way by itself or does it not need solid foundations determined by law which media tools or channels have to play the anthem of the Republic of Estonia on 1 January at 00.01.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U153	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Of course, your question is a little difficult to understand. There are two options whether the question is complicated or whether the answer is silly. I don't know which option is right. But as far as I know, this group came up with a solution, which is the law of the anthem of the Republic of Estonia. Perhaps if we have an anthem regulated as one national and national symbol, it is part of the solution. Unfortunately, as I recall, most people in this Chamber did not support it. Is that right or wrong? Again, I'm not going to make assessments. The Republic of Estonia continues to have free media, everyone can write what they want, can express their opinion, so the discussion about whether or not the anthem should change is part of the free society. However, if we look at the broader trend in society, I must say that I have not yet felt like the majority of Estonian society would support such an idea at all. As far as I am concerned, we could ask the public whether the law on the anthem of the Republic of Estonia should be separate or not, but it is already a separate discussion that somehow no longer ties in with the amendment of this flag law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U154	Good waitress, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Toomas Jürgenstein as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U155	I'm gonna ask you for three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U156	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U157	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The ancient Greek scholar Karneades had such a custom that he spoke in favour of the problem in the morning and against the same problem that evening. I am somewhat in the same position, because I have spoken against this anthem bill and I am speaking in favour of it today. On the one hand, we are dealing with a simple draft today: we are in the process of supplementing the flag law with which we fix the melody and lyrics of the anthem of the Republic of Estonia. Simply and elegantly, this bill creates the necessary clarity to fix the anthem. However, today's bill speaks of more than it seems at first sight. The symbols of the Republic of Estonia, the flag, the coat of arms and the anthem are sacred. In the interpretation and handling of sacred things, simplicity is also at the heart of today's draft, something that has been regarded as important throughout the ages. First, let me give you some examples of the religion I know. According to very many theologians, sacred things are also at the heart of religion, just as the sacred flag, coat of arms and anthem of the Republic of Estonia are. For example, Clive Lewis' famous book explaining Christianity is entitled "Just Christianity," one of the most outstanding atheists in Estonia Ervin Apple Tree is entitled "Simple Questions," with simple intellectuality, St. Patrick sums up the triune explanations, and St. Francis loves the creations of God with heartfelt simplicity. Open and natural simplicity is encouraging, liberating and inspiring for people. The anthem, like many other sacred things, is so that their use has the most fruitful background of freedom, openness, and simplicity, not so complicated regulations, pathos, and commands. An open and simple approach to the anthem ensures that the football players who put their hands on each other's shoulders before the game, the invalids in the wheelchair, the soldiers with a uniform hat, and the citizens who have revealed their heads in festive clothing, are equal and joyful when singing the anthem. I would like to emphasise separately the moment of joy that comes with the anthem, especially because joy is in our society and I feel that it is always necessary here in this Chamber as well. Let's remember the first line of the anthem, "My Fatherland, my happiness and joy." Interestingly, there is a similar emphasis on joy in the European anthem. 'The joy, the mercy of Elysion, the beautiful spark of the gods,'this is what these Friedrich Schiller's lines sound like in the Rein Sepa translation. The background, of course, of Ludwig van Beethoven's brilliant music. Simpleness is also one of the bases of spontaneous and pure joy. Of course, with simplicity, things are not always cloudy. The approach of simplicity is often charming and compelling, but the risks of generalisation must also be highlighted as a counterweight. For example, Murphy's law says that any complex problem has simple, easy - to - understand solutions, but at the same time wrong ones. Or we might recall the famous Czech Reformer Jan Hus' ohet 'O santa simlicitas! ' (O holy simplicity!) when an angry woman added trees to his stake. Simpleness becomes dangerous for sacred things when it is understood to be uniform and attempts are made to accurately regulate and secure the laws of diverse things, as is the case with the anthem. An open approach means that we also understand, for example, the competition for writing a new anthem announced by Kaarel Eenpalu, Deputy Prime Minister of his day, in 1935. So much for the fact that most of us are probably happy that this competition has failed. Good friends! The state and society are nothing from the outside and higher, but they are part of all of us. Society is made up of citizens who create their own country. It is enough for the free people's society to have a culture of creativity and joy, and in the law the anthem of the Republic of Estonia, together with the authors of the way and words, is marked. Just like today's bill does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U158	Thank you to the speaker. Laine Randjärv on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The anthem is certainly an extremely important symbol for each country. Symbols and signs always create emotions and passions, just as it has been through the history of the Republic of Estonia. Already the previous speaker spoke about the competitions related to the anthem. In the 1930's, much was said about what the anthem should be, whether it should be the one that already existed or something new. No agreement was reached. I remember that in 2008 some negotiations began here in the Riigikogu. I was the Minister of Culture at the time. Throughout this year, a series of events was held to celebrate the centenary anniversary of Gustav Ernesaksa. The Estonian Men's Song Society turned to the Riigikogu to change the melody that sounds at the time of the lowering of the flag in the Tall Hermann Tower. At that time it sounded 'My Fatherland's beloved, where I was born', and instead it was desired Ernesaksa 'My Fatherland is my love'. There was also a great deal of passion and debate about how and whether to write in the flag act Ernesaks, which has become an anthem for every Estonian. This situation was resolved in such a way that the signature of Erneksa's written story is now to be heard every night at a particular time throughout the Old Town. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I therefore very much welcome the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which took the initiative and decided to mention the words of the anthem, the title and also the composer of the work in the flag law. I think that's quite enough. On 25 April, a presentation of a new vinyl disc was held in the organ room of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. This vinyl record was presented by the National Archives and earlier recordings of the Estonian anthem were presented by Paavo Annus, the archivist of the National Archives. Very interesting record, there are four variants of our anthem that have been recorded a hundred years or more ago. Would it have been illegal if we had passed the previous law proposed by the EKRE, which specifically stated what the anthem must be and how it must be presented? On this record, Aino Tamm presented the anthem as a soloist, there was also the option presented by the choir, in an absolutely different setting, if it is familiar to us today. It was directly translated from Finnish, it was a Finnish version with repetitions and lengths, not to mention that interpretation was unfamiliar with what we are now accustomed to. Musical works also undergo a certain evolution, one can say, over hundreds of years, so cutting a very specific presentation into stone or the system in which we value it would be too restrictive. Therefore, the Reform Party Group supports the amendment to the flag law that Article 3 (2) of the Act states that when the Estonian flag is raised, the Tall Hermann Tower is used as a musical signature in the Estonian anthem, Friedrich Paciuse 'My Fatherland, My Happiness and Joy' (words Johann Voldemar Jannsen). It's Solomon's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U160	Thank you, Laine Randjärv! Speaking from Marko Pomerants for up to two minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U161	Thanks! The anthem is the kind of thing I can tell you in two minutes about. I can speak, of course, on behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. I think it is great that we can find such proportionate solutions in this Chamber. There's a nice little girl in my life named Miia. She's four years old and she's a normal girl. He has decided that he will sing himself to sleep with an anthem. He calls it the song of the Republic of Estonia; he sings it to himself. Think how stupid it would be if he had to do it standing up. We leave children with childhood and they will become decent Estonian people. I think we've made a good law. We hope that we will process it nicely in the same spirit of unity to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U162	Thank you. There are no more words, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 599. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting the 599 amendments, including at 5.15 p.m. on 22 May. We have completed the third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U163	We come to the fourth item on the agenda. First reading of draft Act amending the Road Transport Act initiated by the Economic Commission 621. Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the initiation of a draft law amending the Road Transport Act at its meeting on 30 April. The amendment of the Road Transport Act is due to the need to clarify some of the provisions under European Union law and to supplement the list of requirements of good repute of the carrier and the driver. The text of the draft law amending the Road Transport Act and the explanatory memorandum have been drawn up in cooperation with the officials of the Transport and Traffic Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The reason why this draft was initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs, why it did not come from the Government of the Republic, is that the new full text of the Road Transport Act will enter into force on 1 June, but that some technical amendments have not been made. It would be good if these technical amendments were to enter into force together with the full text, hence the speed of the procedure of the draft law. The Committee on Economic Affairs adopted all its decisions in a consensual manner and proposes that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, 22 May at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U165	Question one. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U166	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm sorry, but I don't understand the effects of this bill, so what's really gonna change? Here is one number on the other, the numbers and page numbers of the directives, but even the explanatory memorandum does not speak out in detail, which will then be added to its list of good repute claims and how it will affect current practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U167	Thank you. The amendment adds, as a result of Article 7 (3) of Council Directive 2014/47/EU concerning the technical inspection and inspection of commercial vehicles circulating in the Union (car and its trailer) and repealing Directive 2000/30/EC, the requirement that the operator ensure the correct use, technical repair and proper maintenance of the car and its trailer. Although passenger transport is regulated in Estonia by the Public Transport Act, § 1 (2) of the Road Transport Act provides for certain additional references to the provisions of the Road Transport Act, which also apply to passenger transport covered by the Public Transport Act. The amendment adds to subsection 1 (2) an additional reference to the provisions of the Road Transport Act, the content of which is the undertaking's obligation to ensure the correct use, technical maintenance and proper maintenance of the car and its trailer. These obligations must be fulfilled not only by the carriage of goods but also by means of paid passenger transport. The regulation of the good repute of the Road Transport Act is complemented by a reference to the misdemeanour of the Road Traffic Act, which regulates intentional violation of the tachograph or driver card. Previously, this was in § 243 of the Road Traffic Act and the Road Transport Act already refers to it, but it is now laid down separately in § 2431. Consequently, it is necessary to add a reference to § 2431 of the Road Transport Act to § 7 of the Road Transport Act. The Road Transport Act also complements the technical note with a reference to Directive 2008/68/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the inland transport of dangerous goods. The Directive has been transposed by § 35 (1) of the Road Transport Act. The implementation of this law does not entail costs or revenues for the state budget, nor does the implementation of this law entail costs for the private sector; it is a purely technical draft. This draft has no significant social impact, including demographic impact, impact on national security and external relations, impact on the economy, impact on the living and natural environment, impact on regional development and impact on the organisation of public authorities and local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U168	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U169	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Is it possible to say briefly that nothing really happens in Estonia, all these things were there, they were only in the wrong law, or did the paragraphs need to be changed a little bit? So I guess life goes on the old way, I get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U170	Thank you. You've got it perfectly right. Here, the references that have shifted slightly due to the new whole text will simply be corrected, and references to European regulations will also be added to show that we have transposed them correctly. But no new obligation will come to anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U171	Hatter, question two.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U172	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! If road transport operators, or, let's say, drivers are stuck with a roadworthiness test, this is what we have recently dealt with here, will there be now, after the improvements made by the directives, the possibility that, if the time limit for roadworthiness tests has been exceeded, they will not be punished on the way to and from the roadworthiness test?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U173	Thank you. That's right. No new obligations, penalties or measures will arise under this law. There's just a way to fix the references.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U174	Good waitress, no more questions for you. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. The representatives of the political groups do not wish to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 621. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the tabling of amendments to draft 621, including 22 May at 5.15 p.m. We have completed the processing of the fourth item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U175	Let's go to the last, fifth item on the agenda. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Trade Unions and Collective Labour Dispute Resolution initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. The rapporteur is Helmen Kütt, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U176	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great pleasure for me to give an overview of the debate on the draft law amending the Trade Unions Act and the Act on collective labour dispute resolution, which took place in two sessions of the Committee on Social Affairs. First of all, on Monday, 19 March, the Social Affairs Committee heard the Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Department of Working Life Development of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Mariliis Prissi, who explained that the Supreme Court issued a decision on 5 March analysing the trade union law and its liability provisions. In particular, in the current Trade Union Act, the liability provisions are formulated in a single paragraph and do not include any reference to the liability of a legal person. Under the current provisions, only a natural person who is an employer can be held liable. The Ministry also reviewed other legislation and found that the collective labour dispute resolution law has the same wording as the liability part and therefore the collective labour dispute resolution law should be amended accordingly. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to initiate a draft (i.e. a consensual decision) and approve the text of the draft text and the explanatory memorandum (i.e. a consensual decision). That concludes the debate on this draft at its meeting on 19 March. On 3 May, the Committee on Social Affairs launched a draft, i.e. a draft law amending the Trade Unions Act and the Act amending the Law on collective labour dispute 604 and prepared for its first reading. Monika Koks was present at the Ministry of Social Affairs, who gave an overview of the subject and explained that it is a technical draft of the regulation, which provides for the possibility of prosecuting a legal person in the event of a breach of the obligations laid down in the Trade Union Act and the Collective Labour Dispute Resolution Act. Under the current provisions, only a natural person can be held liable and there is no reference to the liability of a legal person. Just as at the first meeting on 19 March, a reference was made to the Supreme Court's position on 5 March that according to the principle of speciality expressed in § 14 (1) of the Penal Code, a legal person is liable only if required by law. That is why the law makes technical amendments to the standard. The draft has been initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. At its meeting on 26 April, the Government of the Republic decided to support the amendment of the Trade Unions Act and the Collective Labour Dispute Resolution Act Act in the form proposed by the Riigikogu. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 8 May (this was a consensual decision), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensual decision), to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 22 May (consensual decision) and to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur, today a speaker (also a consensual decision) before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-08_U177	Thank you, Chairman of the Commission. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. There are no words. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 604. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 604 amendments, including at 5.15 p.m. on 22 May. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting today is closed. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 1.48 p.m.
