ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 38 members of the Riigikogu considered it necessary to report their presence. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs are members of the government. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U2	The first question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U3	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As we know, the issue of alcohol duty has become a very acute issue, both economic and domestic. From the point of view of the government, increasing excise duties has helped to reduce alcoholism in the country. At the same time, a research by the Conjuncture Institute shows that alcoholism is potentially increasing and already increasing. Younger and younger people are going to Latvia for alcohol and, in the long run, the problem threatens to accumulate. Has the government, for its part, launched such studies and taken any steps to address the real problems associated with alcoholism?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu and a good questioner! I would very much like to thank the EKRE and you, as the chairman of the party, for calling the question of today's Question Time with the word 'alcoholism'. What you asked about has, of course, been dealt with by the various configurations and governments of the Riigikogu. For example, it has been decided to ban the sale of alcohol at night and thus limit its availability. There has also been an attempt to regulate excise policy. The truth is that if you look at the Institute for Health Development's preliminary statistics, it shows that our alcohol deaths have decreased. According to their estimates, about a tenth of 465 people died in Estonia due to diseases caused by alcohol consumption, while 419 died in 2017 for the same reasons. It has to be said that 2/3 of them are men, according to the Institute for Health Development. Almost a third of deaths are caused by liver disease, followed by alcohol intoxication and alcohol-induced mental or behavioural disorders. Indirectly, it is estimated that 9000 to 10,000 people die each year from diseases associated with excessive alcohol consumption. I think that all the steps we take to reduce alcohol consumption through joint efforts will contribute to reducing tragic numbers, whether in traffic, in fire accidents, in drowning deaths or in all kinds of diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U5	Mart Helme, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U6	Thank you. Alcoholism is a serious disease that, according to the mouth of the people, is happy. We cannot undoubtedly conclude, on the basis of a reduction in alcohol deaths for one year, that this is a direct result of the government's alcohol policy. This may also be due to the fact that the drinking of cheap Latvian alcohol has reduced the use of surrogates and the occurrence of rapid deaths directly caused by alcohol. What, though, is the problem? I would like to draw attention once again to the research carried out by the Institute of Economics. Younger and younger people are going to Latvia for alcohol, and people have also obtained large amounts of alcohol, and 53% of users admit that they drink more than before the alcohol race. What conclusions does the government draw from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U7	Thank you. I think that, on the basis of these conclusions, measures must in any case be balanced as to how we can improve human health and reduce the devastating effects of alcohol on health, with sickness and even death. Of course, on the other hand, we also need to look at the border trade that you mentioned in your question and think about the right direction of Estonia's economic and fiscal policy now. I think there must be some adjustments, certain changes. These can first be done during the preparation of the country's budget strategy. And the country's budget strategy is now in discussion with the government in weeks and until the end of April. I think it is absolutely necessary to look, as you have also mentioned, at how much border trade has increased, according to the Institute of Economic Affairs, due to decisions that actually started in 2016, during the previous government. A serious debate and proofreading is not a bad idea at all. So this side needs to be looked at as well. But I'd like to come back to the health aspect once again. It is estimated that alcohol consumption in Estonia is in a declining trend for the fourth year, which has also started to be reflected in the reduction in mortality caused by alcohol. According to the Institute for Health Development, this trend is underpinned by a long-term policy on alcohol, which focuses on both reducing the availability of alcohol and more effective treatment and, of course, prevention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Prime Minister! What you have been fighting against in the government, and which Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski has been talking about in particular, is excessive alcohol consumption. The Minister has also said in his recent interviews that he is responsible for health, so let the Ministry of Finance handle the budget. I have the impression that no minister really wants to be held responsible. If we now see, from research, that a particularly dangerous trend is the consumption of alcohol by young people, then it could actually be said that this preventive action that has been in Estonia could be ruined in one or two years. Multiple increases in excise duty, which the current government is pursuing, can become very dangerous because the Ministry of Finance does not receive money and the Ministry of Social Affairs does not achieve health. Does the Prime Minister have a role to play in this, too, when the ministers of his government just play ping-pong between each other and the various political parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U10	Thank you. In any case, I congratulate the government and, certainly, Mr Ossinovski for the work he has done to reduce alcohol consumption. If you use this classic example of a movie, they throw a dead dog over the fence because they don't know who's responsible. The Prime Minister is always responsible for the government's actions. I began to look into what Estonian politicians thought yesterday or the last few days. What did I find? The news of 5 March about national broadcasting says that the more serious border trade with Latvia began in 2016, when the government was led by the reform party Taavi Rõivas. This was evident from a study presented by the Institute of Economics on Monday this week, according to which the launcher of active border trade, which started in 2016, had a 15% increase in excise duty in February 2015, which had a significant impact on the retail price of strong alcohol. When the decision came into force, the Minister of Finance of the Government of Taavi Rõivas was the party partner of the Prime Minister Maris Lauri. On 6 March Sven Sester, a member of the Riigikogu, wrote on his Facebook on the basis of this article in such a way that, according to these studies, the 15% increase in excise duty that had taken place in February 2015, which significantly affected the retail price of strong alcohol, started in 2016 and that, at the time the decision was taken, Maris Lauri, the party partner of the Prime Minister of Finance of the Kõivas government. Maris Lauri said that the decision had been made earlier. Well, that's very interesting! While Maris Lauri was already the Minister of Exhibition at that moment, his predecessor was Jürgen Ligi. I think that Taavi Kõivas has quite rightly said that the increase in alcohol excise has actually been on the table of every government. We need not to look for who is responsible here, but we need to do everything we can to reduce alcohol consumption. Of course, what Mart Helme said, or the aspect of border trade, must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U12	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U13	Thank you, Chairman. Good Prime Minister! In May last year, the Government of the Republic decided to launch a special plan for a wood refinery called Est-For. It's a pretty unprecedented story that a private company gets a special plan. Why did the government decide to give a private company a special plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U14	Thank you for your question. If you ask why the government decided so, I say that the legislator has provided for such an opportunity, or also an obligation, that the government should consider the decision. I don't think this project can come at the expense of the environment. Given the negative impact on nature just as studies and analyses show it, I am convinced that this project will not come. I have said in my answers that I think it is very important to build on the basic principle of sustainable development, i.e. to take account of the economy, the social side, the environment and also the common part of all of them. The truth is what you said was that this special plan was launched on 11 May 2017. At present, there is not really any of these studies, whether it is where the raw material resource or the assessment of the enhancement of wood and its final economic impact, or whether the workplace impact study, environmental impact and location study are still under way. As I said at the beginning of my reply, if any study shows that the plant has a strong significant negative impact on the environment, I think this project will not come. At the same time, we also need to take into account the positive assumptions that the new plant can certainly create jobs, exports and growth. That's all we need to consider. I think that what is going to be handed over to Tartu City Council today is 7,000 signatures, but perhaps there could be even more of them in the right direction. I think that during this year and a half, we need to have a debate and then make a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U15	Honourable Riigikogu! Turns out I have to remind you of a section of the Rules of Procedure Act. If your name is mentioned, you will have the right of reply if this is done in the course of a draft or decision negotiation, otherwise not. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U16	Good Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. The news this morning was that your coalition partners, including influential members, also said that they would demand that this special plan be recalled or terminated or that it be started on other grounds. For example, we are talking about Marju Lauristin, who is a member of the Tartu Council. Do you see any way to meet your coalition partners and finish this special plan, start on new grounds or stop it at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U17	Thank you. The government can stop initiating a special plan at any time, except that it has to write what basis to end it. I think it is good that we in Estonian society have this form of debate created by this special plan. In preparation for your question this morning, I had a very long conversation with the Minister of Public Administration. The whole process of the public sector, the Ministry of Finance, has tendered and commissioned studies, after all, is to identify the impacts on nature, the negative/positive impacts on the economy, the social sector, the population and people at all. And, as I said, if research is available and credible and the local community has been heard, then in a year and a half, a decision must be made on how to proceed with it. At the moment, there is nothing more than this initiative, which is in the procurement phase. As far as I know, this procurement is even being challenged right now. So we have no reason yet to say that we are going to start again. If everything has been studied, then there is reason to say: no, we are not doing it to Estonia; Estonia does not need it under any circumstances. To date, however, it has not been studied how much this would have had a negative impact on Estonia's exports, which means, for example, for households where it is currently heated with wood, or what it means to increase prices, logging, etc. All these things should be examined in this year and a half. I support research, which does not mean that I will tell you here and now whether or not this project will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U18	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! What other special plans is the Government of the Republic planning? And since this is, however, an obstacle to the decision-making power of the local government, this fundamental question: is it justified? In this particular case, the question arises as to why the special plan goes ahead with the studies. We all want to know the answers to these questions. Wouldn't it be more appropriate and wiser to take an approach to wait for the results of the analyses first and then to think about whether to start a special plan at all? There's been another way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U20	Thank you. I understand that the path that has now been taken is the stage you are saying that the studies are being carried out during the launch of a special plan. It doesn't mean we're going on with a detailed plan. It becomes clear, as I said, in a year and a half or two. If you ask how the local government is involved, § 44 (2) of the Planning Act provides for this: 'The local government units whose territory is considered to be the building of the planned building, the persons whose rights may be affected, the persons who have expressed their wish to be involved in the drafting of the special plan, and the authorities which may have a legitimate interest in the expected significant environmental impact or the implementation of the country's special plan, including non-governmental environmental organisations through the organisation linking them and non-profit organisations and foundations representing the inhabitants of the planned area. ' If during this year and a half a lot has been said about one municipality, the city of Tartu, and if the inhabitants of Tartu express total opposition, I think that every government with two legs on the ground will take this very seriously. As I said, if this project is not based on the principles of sustainable development, it cannot come. There is a need to move forward in order for us to get this far in the first place in order to assess it. We cannot deny either that the project may have very many positive effects on the Estonian economy, but, as I said, there is a natural environment and there is also a social environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U22	Now Jürgen Ligi asks and the question is again for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U23	Mr. Prime Minister! On the weekend, you said that your tax change would bring tens of thousands of people out of poverty. Please specify who these groups are and what analysis you are relying on. My calculations indicate exactly the opposite. Logic also says that absolutely poor people can't get out of poverty because they didn't get an extra cent, and the relatively poor got much less than the majority of the recipients. How is such a trick possible? Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U24	Thank you. I think you've unfortunately been inaccurate in your calculations, but I'm sure you can specify everything else. Whose analysis does the government base on doing these calculations? On the one hand, to the Estonian authorities. On the other hand, it is a signal to really bring people out of poverty or relative poverty, as you say, and I also said, from the business environment, from entrepreneurs. It's a very strong foundation on which we rely. I remember that by now in the year before last, around mid-November, when the previous government was still in office, very many entrepreneurs said that one thing that should be changed in Estonia is to increase the net income of those who earn low or average wages in Estonia. One possibility that the state can really do with the use of fiscal policy mechanisms is the same increase in the tax-free minimum. If you ask for an estimate, it can be said that about 80% of working-age residents will either benefit from an increase in the tax-free minimum or will remain on the same net income. These people win up to 64 euros a month. True, in the case of the circa 20%, who earn more, namely over EUR 2100, the country is asking for a contribution to the increase in social cohesion, solidarity and equality.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U25	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You did not answer my question last time I was talking about the taxation of working pensioners. You are always trying, rhetorically, to manipulate and show them as great winners, those taxpayers whose wages remain on the same level. I just want to ask you: do you consider it fair that members of the government are less taxed than working or highly remunerated pensioners? Do you think this is a fair system and will motivate people to contribute more in accordance with their abilities in the future, based on our demographic situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U27	Thank you. I certainly consider it my duty now, as a member of the government, but also when I had the opportunity to be in the honourable Riigikogu, to work every hour to reduce inequality. If we take the average old-age pension and if we take relative poverty, we will see that the average old-age pension is below the limit of relative poverty. I think that the way older people earn more income than that was the point of your question is a very serious question. This is a question of the dignity of the state, especially at the moment when the Estonian state is going for its first weeks in the second century. Of course, we know that there are a lot of teachers, for example, very many in the medical sector, of older people who receive income from both pensions and work every day. What can the state do? The public sector can contribute more to pay wages there. After all, the current coalition has decided that we will raise teachers' salaries. This year's minimum wage is EUR 1150. It also supported local authorities to pay higher salaries for kindergarten teachers. Yeah, I forgot earlier, but I think a lot of older people are also in the cultural field. The wages of cultural workers are also rising, as far as I know, their minimum wage has increased by more than EUR 300 this year compared to last year, which is EUR 1150 this year. I certainly recognise the contribution of the Health Insurance Fund to raising salaries in the medical sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U28	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U29	Mr. Prime Minister! You don't want to make it look like you're just running the country with nothing, and you're not doing any analysis at all. I asked for a justification for your claim that tens of thousands of people got out of poverty with a tax change. Poverty is measured by absolute and relative poverty. Absolutely the poor didn't get a cent of that victory. No one got 64 euros a month, as you claim no one! And the relatively poor received significantly less than this maximum of EUR 62. Please explain the analyses you are relying on when you say that tens of thousands came out of poverty. What kind of poverty and who?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U30	Thank you. As I said, we will certainly rely on the expertise that has come from the private sector, the Ministry of Finance, the Social Insurance Office and the Tax and Customs Board. These are the places where the government receives information from good civil servants on the basis of which to make final decisions. If the questioner thinks that, for example, the gross wage of 1200 euros or less is sufficient in Estonia, I do not think so. Sincerely, I don't think so. I think we have to make an effort to make sure that the net income of those earners is higher. Yes, unfortunately, there are a lot of people who work in the Rescue Department, in the rescue service, among the servants of small wages. If you ask whether you are making an effort to raise their income, the answer is, of course, that you have to make an effort. When your questioner asked whether sufficient effort should be made to increase the income of the elderly who receive pensions or pensions and salaries, steps must, of course, be taken in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U32	Reply from Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm, asks Arno Sild. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, the harvesting of hexed grass is one of the kinds of work that does not generate any income for the farmer, but only costs. Among farmers, especially among small farmers, there is currently a belief that next year the arrangements for the harvesting of hexe grass will be changed, i.e. further harvesting will be required. Are these rumors true? Dissipate the opinion of these farmers and tell them that cleaning hexe grass will not lead to extra costs next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U34	Dear President of the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu and author Arno Sild! Thank you for this question. This question was particularly topical a few years ago when Estonia had 11% of such arable land where grass was simply cut off and left behind. At the same time in Latvia, these percentages were 2% and 4% respectively, i.e. 110000 hectares of arable land that was simply cut off and the hay was left behind. In fact, on this land, cattle, horses, sheep, etc. could have been raised. In order to somehow guide farmers to choose a different route, so that land would also generate real income, we really took such a measure that in 2019 we should clean up the flattened hay, just as the Latvians do. Now I look at the statistics and see how everything's changed. While there was 11% of such land before, in 2016 it had fallen to 4.7%, and now I do not have data for 2017 yet, this percentage may be even lower. We do not need to 'further administration' or force farmers to do what logically does not have to be done. At the end of this year, we will certainly be reviewing the data and, if this percentage is still decreasing by around 4%, I think that this measure does not need to be implemented. But first of all, the farmland should produce something.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U35	Arno Bridge, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U36	Are any other changes foreseen for farmers' payments from next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U37	Thank you. A lot of changes compared to what the previous government did are that the farmer gets much more money. What's the farmer gonna do with the money now? Above all, the farmer should decide what he will do with the money. Neither the state nor the government nor anyone else should direct farmers or say what technology to use, what to sow, etc., it is the responsibility of the farmer. When I tell you, honourable questioner, how much more money the farmers have received last year, the top-up was 19.9 million, and this year, 18,4 million plus 8 million euros in breeding aid for pigs. I can also say that thanks to those who fought for an increase in direct payments, the Estonian farmer will receive 10 million more direct payments this year and 20 million more next year. These are quite a lot of resources for farmers to do well. I would like to congratulate farmers who did particularly well last year because the total value of agricultural production increased by more than 20%, i.e. more than EUR 300 million in monetary terms. Over 300 million! Who thinks about the wider economy knows what an opportunity is for agriculture. The total value is over 900 million and the potential is considerably more. It can also be concluded that the state's attitude towards farmers and the creation of a more level playing field for them gives this opportunity and advantage in order for them to be better delivered. In any case, thank you to the farmers, because last year was particularly difficult because of the rain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U38	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. At the time when mowing subsidies were introduced after accession to the European Union, this philosophy was also linked to the preservation of open landscapes and traditional landscapes, such as meadows, etc. If you are now saying that more and more land is being used in production, could these subsidies not be re-located or directed specifically to this sector, for example, so that we can restore and preserve the stands as traditional landscapes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U40	Thank you. In order to shape the landscape and, let's say, there are subsidies for maintaining the landscape now. I know that Finland, for example, has left it free at all, how to mow, what to mow and whether to clean or not. Their goal is to preserve the landscape. Maybe Estonia needs to move this way too, because this is our own chance of how we organise it. However, if animals carry on this landscape, or if other activities are carried out, this landscape will remain clean. So meat cattle are of great use today. And I am glad that both major cities, Tartu and Tallinn, use beef cattle to maintain the landscape. It also benefits the owners and the general public because the cattle are very good about nature, they make everything very clean, as well as the sheep. The goal is, of course, that we do not have more land to grow. It's much better to arrange it with the help of animals, we don't have to mow ourselves, the animals do the work very well. We have a huge opportunity to increase the number of meat cattle. I think there'll be 100,000 of them in a couple of years. Last year the number of meat cattle increased, more than 10,000 came. Our climate and humidity give us an opportunity to do so. Of course, this characteristic of nature must be preserved. Either by mowing or the animals themselves do the job, that's the question of choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U42	The next question will be asked by Andres Ammas and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U43	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! In autumn 2016, the Free Party Group then asked the outgoing minister about Hiiumaa ferry connections to find out if we are prepared enough for a low-water situation and if this situation should happen again, whether we are better prepared. Among other answers, the Minister said at the time that the draught of new ships would be an appropriate 4 metres and that as a result of daily travel the Rye Canal would wash away the sediment itself. However, this has not happened. In last year's state budget, there was also no more money for dredging, perhaps not even requested, and the result is now: three-hour trips between Virtsu and Heltermaa. Prime Minister! Why has your government not yet dealt with securing the connection between Hiiumaa and the continent? When and to what extent will the necessary dredging work take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U44	Thank you, Mr. Ammas. Deepening work in the Rye Peace channel will come in summer 2018. It starts when the deal is done, maybe sooner. The truth is, I wasn't the Prime Minister of the previous government, but I don't want to point the finger either. However, I do think that the question put by the Free Party at the time was very legitimate. You said yourself that the current and navigation there would bring this canal back to full of sea sediments. I spoke to Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Samson today and asked that we discuss the situation of ferry traffic between Hiiumaa and the mainland at the Government's office tomorrow. The current government has already planned the corresponding deepening funds into the budget, so that we cannot be blamed for not doing this. It is true that in 2016, I believe that only trawling was carried out and that all the dredging work of the Rye Peace Canal was not carried out. The last deepening took place in 2014 and we can say that this work needs to be done at the latest every four to five years. I know that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure supports precisely this principle, so that dredging can be done with about two years of lightning, so that the situation that exists today does not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U45	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U46	Thank you. Prime Minister, please, let's talk about these new ships. There is probably no escape from the deepening of Rye's canal, but seaside residents, such as the giants, tend to say that it is wise to set ships after the sea rather than try to adjust the sea to the ships. What is your assessment of the feasibility of new vessels ordered by TS Ships and their ability to ensure connection to all weather conditions afterwards as the current Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U47	Thank you. It has to be said that yes, you said correctly, the draught of the ship is about 5 meters. I know they're going to go deeper to 5,2 meters. As far as I know, in the case of water levels such as these, the ships of the previous operator would not have sailed either. You're asking for judgment. If we do not talk about the low or extraordinary water level of the sea, as it has been in recent days, ships will be sailing, they will be modern and safe, they will pick up passengers and vehicles, they will be served and they will be on schedule. So I guess what's been isn't going to turn back anyway. I'm sure Tiiu and Leiger are doing a good job between the mainland and the island. I would, of course, like to apologize to all the giants and also to the visitors of Hiiumaa. It is not normal for us to travel from Heltermaa to Virtsu or Virtsus Heltermaa and take three hours instead of one hour and 15 to 20 minutes. At the same time, the good cooperation of TS Ships with the municipality of Hiiumaa and, in my opinion, the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration, which have been very operational in resolving this issue, must be recognised. Now, aside from this subject of deepening, there are currently additional trips between Sõru and the Tribe, at least one extra trip is, as far as I know, by aircraft. So the new ships, I think, are doing their job well. If we had previous ships right now, they probably wouldn't drive low water levels either, at least that's what I'm told. This does not mean, however, that this deepening should take place every four to five years, as I said, but that a proper deepening could take place every two years, so that there are no more problems like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U48	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U49	Thank you, good lead! Good Prime Minister! I congratulate the government for being able to resolve the crisis situation so quickly and to restore the connection between Hiiumaa and the continent, it was then a tighter flight schedule or a ship connection between Sõru or Virtsu or Heltermaa. Absolutely positive. The local people are a little concerned that when discussing how the best way could be to organise the driving times between Virtsu and Heltermaa, what was proposed, for some reason did not fit and the schedule was set in a slightly different way. Yesterday, for example, five cars left behind from the last ship to come from Virtsus, the transport of goods was really long. Let's just say a little tar drop in this honey pot is, in my opinion, a schedule. Could it be further refined in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U50	Thank you. As a resident of your island, you know very well this bitter instrument, which means being the first, second or fifth vehicle left behind. I know that too. There is a big difference between whether you miss the last ferry, and there is also a big difference between being left behind on the Rohuküla Pier or Virtsu Võiva Pier, because the field is different. You mentioned the trucks. I don't mean to say that it's even more complicated with them, but in any case, it could be a big blow to business at some point, because we don't know exactly what's on the truck there, for example, there might be spoiled goods. If such a truck does not arrive in Tallinn or Paldiski, for example, where it has to travel across the sea and stays behind, it will certainly bring great financial damage. You asked whether the timetables could be made in the future, or even now, so that we can take into account the interests of the entrepreneurs of Saaremaa, Muhumaa or Hiiumaa municipality. This is, in my opinion, the only way, and it is the local community that is the first level to be considered. The next level is, of course, how the tourist movement has developed, but the most important thing is how islanders and entrepreneurs can move. Is it possible for the Prime Minister to change something now in hours or today? That's definitely not the promise I'm making here. The Republic of Estonia is not one where the Prime Minister manages the country alone. But the signal you gave me today, so that all of this should be reviewed again, I'll definitely pass it on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U51	I will conclude the debate on this important national issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U52	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Asks Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! This Monday, a debate was held in the Committee on Rural Affairs on regional transport. One of the issues raised there was the so-called 'free public transport'. State representatives confirmed that Minister Kadri Simson basically has a golden ballpoint pen with which he signs the ticket price and comes at zero. When I read Helir-Valdor Seeder's statements about the coalition's major differences, part of the government is opposed to the introduction of compulsory free transport. As a member of the Riigikogu, I would like to find out whether a minister has received too many powers or whether the Prime Minister does not know what is happening in the coalition. However, one coalition partner has made it quite clear that it is a red line.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U54	I thank you for your concern. I also thank you for doing something quite extraordinary. I think it will increase our political culture if this party member, who is not currently in government or coalition, wants to build a coalition bridge even stronger with all his heart. Thanks for that. I don't think anyone has a gold, silver, or bronze pen or pen in their pockets. On the contrary, I think the question is actually what is at the heart of the matter. The core of this matter has been, from the outset, for the present coalition to allow people to move faster, better, more operational and more efficiently from their home. It is true that we have been talking about the need for the state to provide more support for intra-regional transport. And we've not only talked, we've done. For example, if we look at the total amount of public transport support, it will be EUR 34.8 million this year. But there's always something to compare with. Compared to the previous year of 2017, the subsidy was EUR 21.2 million. So it can be said that the additional amount is 13.6 million. If you ask what it is going to be, it will be divided as follows: (a) covering ticket costs in the order of 6 million; (b) covering the price index of 2 million; and (c) increasing the volume of the route by 3.5 million euros. In addition, the costs and start-up costs of the public transport centre will come. Our debate will certainly continue, and then I will also mention to you the places where exactly public transport centres have already been set up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U55	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! If there were a World Spinning Championship in the world, you'd be one of the chief pretendants to this medal. But research by Swedes in Tallinn also showed specifically that the introduction of free public transport brought about 1.2% more road users or passengers. Now, if we convert and take it to a distributed area, we understand that free transport is not what helps rural people move. My question was not motivated by concern for the health of the coalition, but by concerns about those people who have to start organising this transport at one point in the centres. However, I see that there is no agreement among coalition partners. The same has also been said here by Jaanus Marrandi, who believes that instead of free transport, we should rather deal with the collaborative economy and make transport flexible. My concern is whether, as the current government and as your Prime Minister, you can give the rural people the assurance that the confusion that is currently in the coalition will not be transferred to land transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U57	Thank you. On the contrary, there is confidence in the coalition to increase and improve transport within the county. Well, I don't understand. Spin? I made it very clear that this year is EUR 34.8 million and that in 2017 it was EUR 21.2 million. This year, EUR 13.6 million will be more in order to make intra-regional transport more operational, efficient and also bring down the price of the ticket. Now, the sharing economy you mentioned. That's a very good point. As far as I know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is preparing it in cooperation with the municipalities. Once again, the municipality of Saaremaa must be thanked for how much we are talking about islands today, but this is not a bad thing, where it is really trying to carry out a pilot project in the sense of the public transport sharing economy. I think that, in any case, we should try to implement it. It could be an alternative, an opportunity for people there. The question, of course, is how well we can implement it in the light of the aspects of Estonian dispersal, as your question was. Take Saaremaa, for example. If you are Torgus and wish to travel on a beautiful January, February or March day with the help of a sharing economy, it is not known how quickly someone will pick you up and take you to Kuressaare, Orissaare, or Leisi, for example. Isn't it the same question on the outskirts of Estonia? Are there even people who travel so closely? Of course, the second question is whether all people would use such a digital solution. But the issue of the collaborative economy that you raised in your question, also to improve public transport within the county, is in any case the right direction, given our good digital level. I support your point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U58	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U59	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! How to organise public transport within the county more efficiently, better and more rationally is probably best known on the ground, not in Tallinn. Please specify how much independence these public transport centres will have on the ground to decide how they will use this money. Can they use it, for example, to add routes, to tighten timetables, or do they now necessarily have a duty to provide free transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U60	Thank you. If you look at the public transport centres, then really, from the new year, this year, the regional public transport centres with the membership of local governments organise regional routes, with the exception of two: Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, where there are large municipalities. Perhaps the planning of the regional network is indeed carried out by public transport centres and municipalities, not by the Ministry or the Public Road Administration. Public transport centres have been set up to organise public transport better, they have timetables to decide, they have driving times to decide, they certainly also need to be tightened up. The largest is the North-Estonian public transport centre, which brings together Harju, Lääne-Virumaa and Raplamaa. South-East Estonia Centre brings together Põlvamaa and Võrumaa. In addition, Ida-Virumaa, Jõgeva, Valgamaa, Viljandi, Järva and Pärnu are public transport centres. So, yes, in any case, public transport centres are closest to the local population and they actually know which routes need to be intensified, the social and economic situation in a particular county or in the area of the network and how to organise the ticket price. I think that public transport centres have a very large share to play. Of course, in the final phase of the decision-making process, the Centre must also negotiate with the Road Administration. In any case, I support this, let us say, decentralised approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U62	Asks Krista Aru, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Yesterday, a meeting of the Scientific and Development Council was held, which gave a very positive result. The recommendation that the next year's research funding increase by 0.03% in the negotiations on the budgetary strategy. My question is this: why only 0.03%, why not 0.05%? Research and development is certainly one of the key issues of the Estonian state, which can and will ensure the positive development of our economy and entrepreneurship, as well as society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U64	Yeah. Thank you. If the President of the Riigikogu would allow me, I would say more, but there is always a question-answer in Riigikogu Question Time, as the previous speaker said, which is a long story here. Whenever this subject of research and development is raised and TAN comes together, I think about you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Krista Aru. Sincerely, that's right. You have always carried this subject in your heart and brought it forth. For me, too, yesterday's decisions of the Scientific and Development Council were in any case positive. If you answer your question, why by 0.03%, maybe it would be worth looking at some parallel here, that the increase in the last or, let's say, this year compared to last year was exactly the same as 0.03%. It is now 0.81 and TAN believes it could be 0.84 next year. Of course, this does not mean that TAN does not want it to be 1%. Yesterday, too, we mentioned that in the Scandinavian countries, for example, it is either very close to 1% or so much, even more. If we now take one parallel, there is a very direct link between economic growth and the contribution to R &amp; D. My message is the same as many members of the TAN said yesterday: in fact, we want to see that the research funding is 1%. We'll have to discuss the possibilities for such a leap. If we base ourselves on the current level of GDP, this would amount to 71.5 million in 2019. The TAN decision is, of course, a recommendation, but as far as I have been aware, the previous TAN recommendations have been taken very seriously in the government and the RES negotiations. Even this time, we must only look at what economic forecast we will have at the beginning of April.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U65	The Chairman of the Riigikogu is always pleased when the questioners and respondents cooperate in the interests of the matter. But I'd be even better off if I could stick to the time limit. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Rectors of higher education institutions are also concerned about funding. As we know, the Council of Rectors has made several turns, because this model, which was agreed four years ago, simply no longer meets today's requirements. Can we expect any longer discussions in this regard? Does the government plan to move forward again with the idea of paid higher education, or is it too early and prematurely conceived?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U67	Thank you for that question. First of all, a few words about funding higher education, which was also in the debate in TAN yesterday. Funding for higher education has risen slightly in absolute terms in recent years, for example, in the case of doctoral student grants, but growth in higher education funding is actually behind GDP growth. We also see that the wages of a large number of researchers need to be increased. Yesterday, TAN also made it very clear that when we talk about faculty members, such as lecturers or docents, their income is not enough, it was said that it could fall even under the salary of upper secondary school teachers. Also, when we are talking about financing higher education, one component is investment. However, some university investments are increasing because additional resources need to be provided to ensure the completion of the buildings. This, too, was in the debate yesterday in TAN. Now, in answer to the second part of your question, thoughts were also made about paid higher education. I think that TAN wasn't designed to be just a chat room. In fact, this should be a milestone for the Prime Minister and ministers, as well as for the wider public sector. Their opinions should be taken into account as far as possible. We also discussed the aspect of paid higher education yesterday. It has to be said that in the TAN, almost everyone felt that it was not yet ready for this, and at the moment it is not the right direction. We still need to move forward with free higher education, just as we now have just as I support it and try to find more money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U68	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Is this extra science money, 0.03%, going into a particular area now? Is there a decision on this, or how it will develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U70	Thank you. I haven't made a decision yet. As I said, the TAN decision is indicative, but I am sure it will be taken seriously in the negotiations. Where exactly 0.03% is going to be, if it's going to be that big, it's going to be 30 million euros, I can't say yet, because there is no decision yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U71	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm! Thank you also for attending Question Time with Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U72	Dear Riigikogu, good day for the second time today! We'll start the Wednesday session on the 7th working week. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U73	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu decided to initiate a draft law amending the Estonian Flag Act at its meeting yesterday. According to our initiative, our anthem composer Friedrich Pacius and the author of words Johann Voldemar Jannsen could be mentioned in this law. The draft is very good and its goodness will be spoken of on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when it comes to first reading, by the Member of the Commission, Jaak Madison. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U74	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U75	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As we already know, the Conservative People's Party, our group always puts forward very good and constructive drafts. So is today. This is the result of last week's Thursday session of the European Parliament, which had a regrettable vote on possible sanctions against the Republic of Poland in relation to their judicial reforms. This initiative was supported by over 400 MEPs, including four elected MEPs from our country: Kaja Kallas, Tunne Kelam, Ivari Padar and Indrek Tarand. The European Commission will proceed with the implementation of Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union, which could, for example, result in the withdrawal of voting rights in the Council of Europe or economic sanctions. The Government of the Republic of Estonia has still not decided whether we are more in favour of Poland on this issue or in favour of the European Commission. However, as we know, Parliament still has a higher power in the country than the government, and our task is certainly to give our guidance on what position the Government of the Republic should shape. Therefore, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party gives a draft to the proceedings 'The Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic not to support the implementation of Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union with regard to the Republic of Poland'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U76	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U77	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, As usual, there will be very intelligent questions from the Free Party Group. [[Laughter.]] And this time we're gonna have to ask seven signatures. This is for the Prime Minister and concerns the special planning and details of the refinery planned in Tartu was why in the case of a private company, the government adopted an exceptional form such as a special plan and what it wants to achieve. Then there are all kinds of special planning issues, how far they go, and so on. I hope the Prime Minister gives us very constructive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U78	I have adopted two intelligent drafts, one intelligent inquiry and it would be wise to proceed with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U79	Let us begin by addressing the items on today's agenda. First of all, the draft Act amending the Emergency Act, the Tax Administration Act and the State Defence Penalty Act 571 is the third reading initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Emergency Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Tax Administration Act and the State Defence Penalty Act 571. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft proposal, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Emergency Act, the Tax Administration Act and the National Defence Penalty Act have been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U80	The following is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled Janar Holm's Auditor General, submitted by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid. To remind you that the procedure for processing the draft decision to appoint an official is set out in § 117 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. The draft will be dealt with in a single reading. First of all, the presentation of the commission is up to 20 minutes. The candidate's presentation shall not exceed 5 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. The negotiations will then be for the representatives of the political groups and the final vote. The final vote is secret if no one at all knew. Please, waitress of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Helmut Hallemaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U81	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests, among them a candidate for the Auditor General! We are discussing today the appointment of a high-ranking civil servant and we have a draft decision on the table for the appointment of the 582 Auditor General. The Constitutional Commission discussed this issue on 19 February 2018, following the proposal made by the President of the Republic, Kersti Kaljulaid, pursuant to Article 78 (11) of the Constitution, to appoint Mr Janar Holm to this post. On the basis of § 65 (7) and § 134 (1) of the Constitution, the Auditor General is appointed by this Chamber on a proposal from the President. Explaining his choice, President Kersti Kaljulaid stressed Janar Holm's very long-term work in the public sector, including nearly 20 years of service in the Ministry of Education and Research and the last post in the Ministry of Social Affairs. In addition, he still has experience from several posts. The main issue in the Commission was how Holm's previous jobs and agencies contribute to this post. On that day, all members of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu took part in the committee meeting. The presentation was made by Mr Riisalo, President of the Office of the President, who stressed that the candidate of the Auditor General is appropriate for this post. The President shall evaluate the applicant's previous professional experience, as well as his personal contacts with him, and shall regard him as wholly worthy of this post. Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu Arto Aas took an interest in Janar Holm's work at the Ministry of Education and Research since he was a minister. At that time, a number of policy-making issues were outside the Ministry. Arto Aas wondered whether this was the right practice and whether there had been any changes to it, and what things Mr Holm had not resolved, which is still being dealt with in the Ministry of Education and Research to better target education. In his replies, Janar Holm mentioned the Innove Foundation, which has a very large and wide field of work and has a number of policy-making tasks in its field of activity, but is gradually shifting back to the Ministry's administration as proposals. In other areas, however, the Ministry of Education and Research deals with policy design. The chairman of the committee, Marko Pomerants, was interested in what feedback and recommendations the political groups gave to Mr Holm when he took up this post. Janar Holm replied that the main question was two areas: auditing the work of local authorities and audits in the field of defence. There was also a discussion on auditing the work of the municipalities, and I took the floor. When the candidate is currently under discussion, it was mentioned that the Auditor General and the National Audit Office could carry out substantive audits in the field of local government work. The Constitution currently does not allow this; the Supreme Court has also made a decision on this subject on the basis of the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Government, which Estonia has adopted and confirmed. Mr Holm replied that this issue should be resolved very accurately and clearly at the beginning of the work. He performs the tasks that both the Riigikogu and the Supreme Judicial Authority foresee in this matter. It was also said that Mr Holm now works as Deputy Chancellor at the Ministry of Social Affairs and took up this position as Chancellor. Kalle Laane asked if it was like going back. We all liked the answer very much, and I personally liked the answer that it really doesn't matter whether you're a chancellor or a deputy chancellor, it's important what ideas you can put into practice and what duties you can perform. In fact, after working in the field of education, the field of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the place of deputy chancellor of the work area is a logical next move. I was also interested in the fact that, since Mr Holm's service page also has the office of Executive Director of the Traders' Association, how does the business sector and the experience of the third sector, the administration of the civil society, contribute to his new position? Janar Holm replied that every job is important and it is actually important that the Auditor General gets a picture and an overview of all areas of life and delivers them across disciplines. But he also stressed that he had the greatest experience of working as Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research at the time when we had a recession and had to deal with cuts. He recommended such an experience for many of us because it provided him with very large luggage for the future's work. Member of the Commission Lauri Luik asked what are the first things, the first tasks and priorities to be dealt with by the future Auditor General when he becomes the Auditor General. Janar Holm replied that these were certainly large investments, the provision of all public services and their quality from central government to local government. On the side of local governments, certainly efficiency, as well as the use of funds and issues of developing democracy. In the final part of the Commission's debate, the question arose that our domestic and operational procedures currently give the candidate for the Auditor General the right to speak for up to five minutes. This decision will also be taken later by the Commission so that the speaking time can be longer, but today, in the round of questions and answers, we will certainly have the opportunity to get answers from the Auditor General's candidate to all the interesting questions. It must also be said that, in making his proposal, the President had received the agreement of Janar Holm, written on 27 January, to take up this post. The Commission also took the necessary decisions and all of them were consensual. It was decided to bring this question to us in this Chamber today and to hold a secret vote because it is required by the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. Those persons, high civil servants for whom a secret vote is required, are six, and one of them is the Auditor General. Everyone, every member of the Riigikogu, has the constitutional right to make a decision on the basis of his or her inner conviction, as well as the experience of the Auditor General's candidate, his or her career and the presentation that will soon be presented to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U82	Any questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? Thank you, Helmut Hallemaa! Honourable Riigikogu, I would like a job opportunity! The next waitress is official candidate Janar Holm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U83	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the opportunity to speak here in front of the Riigikogu as a candidate for the Auditor General. At the meetings held in February in all the political groups of the Riigikogu, as well as in two committees, I was able to present my views on the role and possible priorities of the National Audit Office. I also received very valuable and important feedback from you. Thank you for that. However, I will briefly bring a few points of emphasis. The National Audit Office is established and established as an independent body whose task is to give an objective picture of how the central government and local authorities use the tax money entrusted to them. I dare to claim that the National Audit Office has become a professional, respectable and strong organisation over the years, as long as it has been audited in the Ministry of Education and now also in the Ministry of Social Affairs. At the same time, almost all the political groups raised the question of what should be done to ensure that the relevant recommendations of the National Audit Office are not left on the shelf. The experience of the National Audit Office shows that most recommendations are, in fact, taken into account. To this end, all the current controllers have worked hard. However, it is still appropriate to consider how to increase the impact of the recommendations of the National Audit Office. The key words here are the importance of the topics to be audited, the quality of the recommendations and the visibility of the action. The solutions are in the hands of the National Audit Office and also of the audited, in fact to a large extent also Parliament. Cooperation with the Special Committee on State Budget Control, which is a direct partner of the National Audit Office in Parliament, is important. It is this cooperation that provides an opportunity to make the results of the activities of the National Audit Office even more visible and to support the implementation of the recommendations based on the authority of the parliament. It is also extremely important the way in which communication with the audited person is carried out is whether the audited person perceives that the emphasis is only on problems, or, in addition, there is room for recognition in case of success and discretion. Is the reason for the audit also understood by the audited, the public and the Riigikogu? Does this help the audited to solve their own problems? Do the members of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic also benefit from the result of the work of the National Audit Office in shaping policies and planning activities? These are the questions that the National Audit Office has considered to be important so far, and which I will certainly continue to deal with when I am appointed as Auditor General. Certainly, the possibility for the Auditor General to prevent problems cannot be overlooked, highlighting the potential risks and problems already at the time of the preparation of one or another decision/plan. At the same time, it must be understood that the National Audit Office gives advice, but the decision-making power and also the responsibility of those who have been chosen and appointed for this purpose. In short, also the areas on which the National Audit Office could, in my opinion, maintain its focus in the coming years. These include structural reforms, large investments in all public sectors, relevance and timeliness of public services, accessibility and quality. At the same time, it is clear that the National Audit Office must keep a close eye on the whole public sector, areas and different scopes. Based on risk assessments, the work plan of the National Audit Office must be kept as lively as possible. At the meetings held in the Riigikogu, two topics were drawn, which Mr Hallemaa also spoke about and which, according to the members of the Riigikogu, would require greater attention. Firstly, local authorities, where the question was raised almost everywhere, whether the powers of the National Audit Office in auditing the public sector could also extend to verifying the effectiveness of the use, possession and disposal of the local government's own assets. Almost ten years ago, the Supreme Court has taken the view that this is contrary to the European Charter of Local Government. However, I think it is possible to analyse how the performance of local government can be assessed without unduly interfering with the autonomy of local governments. This can be discussed in cooperation with the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, the Chancellor of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the National Audit Office. However, extending the mandate is certainly not up to the National Audit Office itself, but to the Parliament. The second topic that arose during the meetings with the political groups was the wish that the National Audit Office pay more attention to the field of defence. In recent years, the National Audit Office has increased competence and readiness on this subject. I agree that more attention should be paid to this area when drawing up the work plan of the National Audit Office. To sum it up. The National Audit Office can give citizens confidence and knowledge that the state functions reliably, that there is an independent and competent institution in the public sector, which does not miss risks and problems or fail to find possible solutions in an appropriate way. The National Audit Office must be an institution whose recommendations have been argued, who is able to explain his or her views in a simple and understandable way to the public and thereby is able to influence the development of the Estonian state positively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U84	Questions for the Auditor General's candidate. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U85	Good manager! Good waitress! During your career, you have been Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AS Hoolekandeteenused. Yesterday we were seriously discussing welfare problems here, indeed, especially when talking about people with mental disabilities, 3,000 people in institutions and funding from the state budget. Do you think that the National Audit Office, under your leadership, should also pay attention to nursing homes and all this topic, despite the fact that it is largely the property of the local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U86	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, I was the head of this public limited company for only five months, but this is enough time to bring myself up to date. I know that the National Audit Office has also dealt with this issue and not in the very distant past. Can the National Audit Office take a role in the view of local governments? Yeah, basically, it's possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U87	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Holm! We have many years here and a great deal of talk about state reform. The experts now estimated that the government's work in this area could not be appreciated because it was not, as it were, something that had not been done properly. What is your attitude towards state reform? Have you developed a comprehensive understanding of what is or what should be its content, and do you see here the possibility of more rational use of public money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U89	Thank you. The state reform is aimed at ensuring that the state itself works effectively and does not interfere with the functioning of businesses and residents themselves. Today is an excellent opportunity to talk about the fact that, at 9 a.m., we discussed the issue of state reform in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, which includes representatives of employers and workers, for example, in connection with the integration of career services from the turn of next year. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the unemployment fund and Innove, it is prepared and can result in an increase in efficiency of almost 15%, bearing in mind the number of people, and a saving of half a million to a million euros. I think that the reform of the state covers some of the activities that can achieve the same good quality in a more sustainable way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U90	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr Holm! Of course, we already had a pleasant opportunity in the Special Committee on State Budget Control to meet and talk to you, but I would ask one more question. As we know, the National Audit Office has recently carried out an audit on the funding of state tasks from European Union grants. There the National Audit Office recommended that detailed information be drawn up as part of the state's budget strategy on how to prepare for the likely decrease in EU subsidies in the next budget period. The Ministry of Social Affairs has drawn up a response to the National Audit Office, so you are the Deputy Chancellor, so you have probably participated in formulating it, that such an action plan is not needed and all these issues can be resolved during the preparation of the state's budget strategy. Here, however, there is a slight difference in nuances as regards the position of the National Audit Office and the position of the ministries. What is your position as Auditor General candidate on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U92	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! Time is up and the question is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U93	Thank you. I cannot distinguish between the roles here at the moment, it would be a little complicated, but I say this: the point of this response was to say that the plan was coming, but simply within the framework of the national budgetary strategy, because the programmes financed from European funds end in different periods and it makes sense to reflect it all within the limits of the RES. In any case, everyone must have an action plan in one way or another so as to be ready for support at the moment of failure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U94	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Holm! I have had a happy opportunity to work quite closely with two controllers. When asked what they had in common, the fact that they often talked about how the National Audit Office has done its work, made certain recommendations and came to conclusions, but often similar checks will give the same result again next time. I mean, the reaction is pretty weak. At the same time, we have things that have been going on in society a long time ago, and I am thinking, for example, of the same VEB Fund and the National Audit Office report, which was last on this subject in 2013. Do you think it would be necessary, however, to complete all things or to allow some of them to get lost because there are authoritative people involved in this? Which path would you choose?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U96	The operating principles of the National Audit Office certainly do not allow things to disappear. It's up to the National Audit Office to get things out of the fog and keep them out of the fog.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U97	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Auditor General candidate! First of all, I would very much like to congratulate you on the work you have done in this short time as Deputy Secretary of State for the Ministry of Social Affairs. Indeed, you have often been a writer of answers to the Auditor General in very different occupations. I believe the competence you've acquired will be useful. My question, however, is: what are you planning first? What is this unfinished job or the first job you're going to do? What are you gonna audit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U99	Thank you. If today's vote goes in such a way that I can start working as a Auditor General, it is not an empty country, but there is a work plan ahead. The National Audit Office already has a lot of interesting things ahead of it, looking at points in the work plan, such as first aid arrangements and higher education reform, so there are already quite a lot of topics ahead. My first interest is to find out where things are, what topics are up, and then, with future colleagues, to assess which risks should be further addressed. But it must be stressed that the work is ongoing. If you look at the work plan and the audits that are being carried out, a lot of excitement is already in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U100	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U101	Thank you, good Chairman. Good candidate! I have this question: how would you see the cooperation between the National Audit Office and the Financial Supervision Commission of Political Parties? In fact, the National Audit Office has touched on the issue that public resources are used for the benefit of political parties during local government campaigns. How do you see your cooperation here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U102	I can say so much that when it comes to the communication costs of local governments, I can refer to the exact same work plan of the National Audit Office from the homepage, so you can get acquainted with it, for example, that such an audit is coming up. This will certainly help many to understand the position and situation of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U103	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U104	Thank you. Honourable Auditor General candidate! Some time ago, the representative of the Ministry of Finance at the meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control took stock of how the Government of the Republic, or rather the Minister of Finance, refused to make a request to the European Union that Estonia should be divided into two ways to receive additional money from the European Union with additional requests. This amount amounts to around EUR 700 million. This summary was actually very superficial. It happened, however, that the officials of the National Audit Office came back on Monday to the Special Committee on State Budget Control and wished to smooth it all over again, as if everything had been done legally and on the basis of facts. No official documents on this matter have been received by the Special Committee on State Budget Control. I will press the green button today if you promise that you will do some analysis of this and bring us the Commission's protocols, the Government of the Republic's decision, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U105	In this sense, even if you press the red button, I can confirm that this is a subject of which I am not very familiar with the details, although I have also read and noticed what is going on. The National Audit Office has formed its own views in this respect. I'm sure I'm ready to come and explain them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U106	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U107	Thank you for that answer. As a lawyer, I just wanted to point out that you didn't have any need to answer the previous question because it was illegal and incorrect. The candidate does not have to make promises about future solutions, otherwise we will be dealing with corrupt purchasing of solutions in the Riigikogu and I will certainly not support that. But there is a philosophical problem. We have often encountered the fact that the local government does not act in the interests of the local people; there is no way to see where they are going or how they are going. What can I do? On the one hand, the local government must be well-free. However, if we see side by side that there is a wrong thing to be done and there is nothing we can do, even by law, how can we get out of this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U108	Thank you. Referring to the beginning of the question, I sensed a trap and gave my answer an opportunity to press the red button. I'll do what's really right. As regards local authorities and the provision of information on their performance through performance audits, this is the same issue that I have already talked about here in the meantime. Perhaps the law does not provide for the possibility of assessing the effectiveness of the use of local government funds. This is the place that we have been talking about in all the political groups and which certainly needs to be re-examined in order to assess what can be done. This does not mean that nothing can be done with local authorities. In fact, the power limit given in the National Audit Office Act is quite wide. Within these limits, assessments can still be made. This answer does not mean that nothing can be done, but simply the question is that there are some places that still need evaluation and analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U109	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U110	Thank you, Chairman. Honourable Auditor General's candidate Janar Holm! The committee also mentioned that the first cooperation partner of the National Audit Office is the special committee on state budget control for the Riigikogu and the Auditor General. Maybe you're repeating how you see this cooperation here. And the other half of the question. Speaking of local governments, whether or not there is the right to audit on the substance, I do not think that this should be the case, and this is the way our constitution provides for it, the largest and first partner in local governments is the audit committees. Have you ever wondered how this cooperation and the guidance of these committees could take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U111	Two questions. With regard to the special committee, I think that the road that is now being paved for this cooperation is the right one. Co-operation's pretty good. It is not always the position of the auditee that is perceived by the depth of this cooperation, but now, having become a little more serious, I see that contacts are much closer than those that appear to be audited. I think that they simply need to be further developed and deepened. However, the National Audit Office should provide as much information as possible to the special committee. As far as the municipal audit committees are concerned, I cannot answer this question; I do not yet have a prescription.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U112	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U113	Thank you, manager. Honorable Auditor General candidate! You are one of Estonia's top officials, so I ask you this: what is the biggest challenge for you in the office of Auditor General if you draw even a comparison with the office of Chancellor of the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U114	Yes, I am, by definition, one of the 98 top officials the State Chancellery is working with. I see it rather as a huge opportunity, I have said it many times. Recalling Mr Oviir's speech when he resigned from that post, he stressed that his greatest strength in this position was the experience he had gained as Chancellor of the Ministry of Justice. Perhaps, in fact, he was able to see the situations through the eyes of the audited and understand why one way or another was being acted. I certainly appreciate, as my own strength, that I have very good contact with many of these 98 people, and that contact is not a risk. Neither is there a tremendous love between these 98 top executives, just everyone doing their job and doing their job assignments. I believe that when I talk to them, they will understand that my goals are noble and sincere, and I just want to solve problems. I see this as a huge opportunity, not a risk when the point of the question was that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U115	Thank you, Auditor General candidate Janar Holm! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. I would remind everyone that the final vote is secret. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Appointing the Auditor General of the State of Janar Holm' presented by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid, 582. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft proposal, 10 against, no abstentions. The decision has been taken. Janar Holm has been appointed Auditor General. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U116	Second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on National Defence Penalty Penalty Law 572 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waitress of the National Defence Committee, Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U117	Dear Chairman, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would also like to congratulate the new high-ranking state official from this panel of the Riigikogu. At the same time, however, we will continue to work. To date, the National Defence Committee has sent a draft law amending the Act on National Defence Penalty Penalty to the second reading of the hall. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 8 January. The first reading of the draft was completed on 24 January. No amendments from outside the commission were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, including 7 February at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting of 12 February, 15 February and 5 March before submitting it to second reading. A word on the amendment. At its meeting on 12 February (consensus), the National Defence Committee submitted a change to point 5 of the draft, i.e. Paragraph 31 (2) by adding the word 'person' after 'fulfilling'. The officials representing the Ministry of Defence supported the amendment proposed by the National Defence Committee. In addition, the National Defence Committee made five linguistic and one technical specification of the norm, which is underlined in the text of the draft. The officials representing the Ministry of Defence also supported these clarifications. At its meeting on 5 March 2018 (consensus), the National Defence Committee approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. In coordinating this draft, the Association of Estonian Cities and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry submitted their opinions on the draft, which are set out in an annex to the explanatory memorandum to the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic. The National Defence Committee offered the above to participate in the discussions on the draft. Anne Läns, representative of the Association of Estonian Cities, participated in the meeting of the National Defence Committee. As a result of the discussions, the National Defence Committee supported the Cities Union and agreed that point 4 of the draft, which amends the text of § 3 of the National Defence Penalty Act, should be further specified in the explanatory memorandum in respect of § 3 (4) (fulfillment of executions). It is in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft, and I am not going to read it now in the interests of rationality. The bill we're still discussing. On the basis of the draft, the initial amendments, and in particular those necessary for the organisation of military defence, shall be made in order to determine and prepare for the execution of compulsory sentences. The current National Defence Penalty Act entered into force in 1995 and therefore has less frequently used definitions which in the near future would require harmonisation based on other laws and changed law. For example, the National Defence Penalty Act uses the term'service', which is similar to the term'servation' used in this bill and other laws. It was also necessary to clarify in the explanatory memorandum so that it could be understood jointly: these are terms of the same nature. The National Defence Committee considered that the priority was changes to the draft, so the National Defence Committee did not work on the harmonisation of words of the same meaning as it was going on. In the course of the review of the National Defence Law, further amendments to the National Defence Penalty Act will be prepared anyway. I myself hope that a new full text of the National Defence Penalty Act will be presented, in which, as a result of a broad approach to national defence, there could also be, for example, the executors imposed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Now, however, to the procedural decisions taken by the Commission. As I mentioned, including at the meeting of 15 February, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 7 March. The National Defence Committee also decided at the same session (also by consensus) to propose that the Riigikogu stop second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U118	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'll open negotiations if you like. As this is a second reading, everyone will be able to negotiate. No one wants to take this opportunity. There is one amendment to the draft 572, as you have heard, and it has been tabled by the Committee on National Defence. The decision of the commission is to take this fully into account. The amendment to draft law 572 has been revised. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 572. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U119	Fourth item: Second reading of the Act on Social Welfare and the Amendment of Other Laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 558. I would like to ask Helmen Küti, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to speak as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U120	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I will give you an overview of what has been happening in the meantime with the draft law 558 on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act and other laws. On 4 December 2017, the Government of the Republic initiated the Social Welfare Act, and I would like to draw attention to the draft amendment to the Tax Administration Act 558 which we discussed here at first reading on 17 January. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 31 January 2018. The amendments were tabled by Monika Haukanõm, a member of the Riigikogu, and there were five. No amendments were tabled by other members of the Riigikogu or by the political groups. On 15 January the Commission also sent a letter to a number of cooperation partners and stakeholders during the preparation of the draft. The letter was sent to the Data Protection Inspectorate, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Estonian Union of Cities, the Estonian Association of Rural Municipalities, the Estonian Children's Protection Association, the Estonian Youth Association and the Estonian Student Association. Written answers came to us from the Data Protection Inspectorate, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Child Welfare Association and the Estonian Association of Municipalities. By letter, the initiator of the draft act, the Ministry of Social Affairs, submitted their amendments by the deadline of 31 January for consideration of the amendments. When we dealt with and read the draft together here on 17 January, it was titled, as I told you at the beginning, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and the Tax Administration Act, and the rapporteur was Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. However, the amendments that came from the Ministry of Social Affairs were signed by another minister, the Minister for Social Protection, and these proposals are very clearly in favour. And now it would also be necessary to amend the title of the draft as a result of the amendments voted through by the Commission, as several other laws will also be amended. That is why today there is a bill on this table, which contains essentially the same text, but whose title is the second. The Commission held four meetings to discuss the proposals, which were held on 5, 13 and 19 February and 5 March. And we began to discuss the amendments very thoroughly on 5 February. I would like to start by saying that we are talking about the five proposals of Monika Haukanõmme mentioned earlier and the proposals added by letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs, which complement the provisions of the VAT Act and the Code of Enforcement Procedure and change the title of the draft. In addition, there were technical proposals for the organisation of the Social Welfare Act. I would be honest to say that a member of the management board of NGO Händikäpp, Margit Rosental-Tust, was also invited to our committee meeting, who actually addressed the Social Affairs Committee in December with concern that we do not have any VAT exemption for certain services, welfare services. And after Margit pointed out the personal helper's service, that is, after his hearing, it was clear to everyone what the prevailing situation was. Some services have value added tax (VAT) and some do not have value added tax (VAT). Thus, the price of some services is much more expensive than others and people can buy it less because VAT adds to this amount. Everyone thought the problem had to be solved. Maris Lauri rightly pointed out that the other members of the Social Affairs Committee also supported him, that this was not quite a good lawmaking practice when the subjects that were not included in the original version of the draft law were introduced. We also approached ministerial officials so that they could deal with these matters earlier. However, if we do not add these amendments to the current draft, they are not reflected there and we would launch this law in another direction, it would mean that these amendments could only enter into force on 1 January next year. As a result, we had a long debate and many questions were answered, all of which are included in the protocol, and I will not stop all of them. The Commission decided to invite Kerstin Holland, Head of the Department of Unemployment Prevention and Skills Development of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, to the next meeting on 13 February. It was intended to clarify that if the unoccupied or inactive young people, of whom the draft is primarily talking about, actually wanted services, then what the unemployment fund already has to offer them. Maybe these kids just haven't found a way in. Advisor to the Employment Department of the Ministry Li Pärg explained how it has gone with the pilot project of the support system, the collection of advice and information in two municipalities, i.e. Tartu and Võru. The Data Protection Inspectorate authorised scientific research to carry it out. Kerstin Holland then focused more specifically on how the unemployment fund operates, including how it offers a wide range of opportunities for young people. Jüri Jaanson found it inappropriate to use the term 'inactive' because it is very stigmatizing. Li Pärg agreed to this. Questions were also asked that if a person is engaged in sports and is a member of a club, for example, he or she is not included in any register. A very active debate among the members of the Commission, even after we had received a very thorough overview from the representatives of the unemployment fund, made a lot of clear in any case. At the next meeting, on 19 February, the committee voted on the amendments. The first amendment concerned the title. And although we had a debate at the first Commission meeting that this was not in accordance with good legislative practice, this amendment was fully taken into account: all 6 members of the Commission were in favour. The following amendment had been tabled by Ms Haukanõm. This amendment changed the logic of the draft, which was actually done by most of Monika Haukanõmme's proposals. These were against minor interference and action that young people would be approached once the data had been processed in advance and then asked their consent if they wanted to continue with it. According to the proposals, the young person should, as it were, turn. Most of the five proposals submitted were due to the logic that the current draft would interfere too much in private matters or violate the principles of data protection. Amendment 2 was rejected: 4 in favour, 4 against, 1 abstention. Proposal No 3 was from the Committee on Social Affairs and was fully taken into account. Proposal No 4 was from Monika Haukanõmme and was not taken into account. Proposal No 5 was also from the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, not including: by 4, against 5. Proposal No 6 was also from the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, not including: by 4, against 4, abstentions 1. The proposal of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu concerning the amendment of the Code of Enforcement Procedure was fully taken into account: by 6. And the last amendment, Amendment 9, concerning the entry into force, was also fully taken into account: by 5, with no abstentions 4, no one opposed. Decisions were also taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, to propose that the second reading be closed, to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, by 14 March, and then to hold the final vote on the draft. All these decisions were consensual. We also continued the debate on the draft on 5 March when we approved the second reading procedural documents. All of these decisions were consensual. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U121	The first of these will be presented by Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U122	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! If it was in this Chamber at first reading, it was said that it would not be done anywhere else in the country. I, too, wonder why we have made a bill that will spy on our children. Who are the officials to whom such rights are granted? What law gives the right to log into the system for all these subjects? It is very important who these officials are and what responsibilities and rights this activity entails. We know that people are given rights to go into any system, for example, the parish secretary has certain rights. Are they written here very clearly, I didn't know how to look? Why don't you help?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U123	Thank you very much for this question. First of all, I have to say something about Estonia's intention to carry out such a pilot project for the first time. Estonia was the first to invent Skype and many other things have been done in Estonia for the first time. What you're referring to may not always be bad about why we're starting something that we already know is bad about. Secondly, as a former governor of the country and a person familiar with the local government, you are very well aware of all of this. The question is weird in that sense, but I'm trying to answer it. On the basis of the current Child Protection Act, the social authorities of the local government react when someone turns with this information, it is from a neighbour, a person on the street, or even a phone call, that a child or a youth is in trouble. We all have a duty to inform the child if he or she seems to be in trouble. These very well-trained social workers are very strict requirements for them, who are in every municipality, already go to databases, such as the register of residents, and make home visits. They intervene in the most sacred: homes, what is happening in the family. This right is granted to them by the casework and by the fact that someone has reported that there may be problems. Second, there is no pressure on anyone. Six municipalities have expressed their wish to participate in the pilot project and to help their young people. They must make a request for authorisation. One particular person, a social department employee, processes these data, but only if the municipality so wishes. Moreover, these six municipalities already said before this draft and after a pilot project was carried out with a research permit issued by the Data Protection Inspectorate that they see a major problem in the fact that these young people do nothing because of a lack of information, including because they do not know about the possibility of obtaining services from the municipality. They are very often insured by the health insurance fund. If they are not busy studying anywhere, they are not in the Defence Forces or even in prison, they are actually insured by the Health Insurance Fund. And if they are now in this state, then there is a high probability that it is not invented in Estonia; this high probability comes from other studies carried out both in Europe and in other countries, that a very large number of them will be 20, maybe in 30 years' time someone dependants who will not be able to cope with the labour market either. This is why six municipalities and their educated social workers will deal with these data. And when a young person, after his first address, says that he does not want or want help, the proceedings will be terminated. The situation so far, where we have hoped that young people themselves would turn, has led to the fact that, after leaving school, these young people should already be interested in being dealt with before they drop out of school, they are 17 years old, they have no obligation to attend school, and they are in the care of families, close family members, often grandparents too. This is why the municipalities have wanted to do something about it. What is very important about this bill is that in 2020 there will be an obligation to make an overview, an analysis. On the basis of this, it will be decided whether such assistance will be carried forward, whether the current activity has borne fruit, whether it will have results, whether the number of inactive young people has decreased. As an example, I would like to point out that if the overall unemployment rate in Estonia is very good, i.e. we have few unemployed people, this percentage is much worse for young people. In their case, we are not in the so-called good writing. It is true that there is also a great deal in other parts of Europe that young people are not employed, nor are they at the unemployment fund's expense. I met with social workers during a week off the table. Major problems with young people start when there is an accident, when they need medical care, when they show interest. First aid will, of course, be given away, but then the Social Security Office, local authorities will be contacted and a letter of guarantee will be requested for the following medical services. That's a problem. But thank you for the question. This subject actually needed an explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U124	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U125	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good waitress! I'm relying on these six parishes now. We grant these rights only to the social workers of the six municipalities where we are making a pilot project, not all over Estonia. I still do not understand why we have to amend the law for this pilot project and repeal the same law in 2020. Is that someone's obsession with why we process it so extensively? If any other municipality wishes to join this very brilliant initiative during the pilot project, then we must come here to the Riigikogu and begin to amend the law in order to sign in the next local government. That's one side of the question. The second is: if a young person says he does not want help now, when will he be able to get help again?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U126	Thank you. In fact, this is a very important issue that you have put forward and which we have also long stopped at first reading. These six municipalities are indeed participants in the pilot project; they have expressed their wish. Everyone else will also be able to submit an application and participate. In order for them to be able to join, additional resources, money are planned, as this will undoubtedly lead to an increase in the administrative burden for the municipality. Maybe we'll have to hire a new employee. So it is that six municipalities have expressed their wish, they are prepared to be in a pilot project, but everyone else has the same right to join if they wish. That's one thing. Another very important issue is why there is no law in front of you that already includes all the municipalities across Estonia. Even when all of this was prepared, the support system was applied for a pilot project from the Data Protection Inspectorate for a research permit, without the law, such a pilot project could not be carried out. We are here today in this Chamber to adopt a law that gives the social worker of the local government the right to act. If the local government turns to want to do this kind of work with young people, it will receive this right. It is a specific person who can use these registers, and it is all traceable: every use of the register is left behind by a log file, just as we can see in e-health, who has looked at our data. So when we adopt this law, all other municipalities who wish to submit an application and participate in this project will also be able to do so. 2020 is the time when an analysis is being carried out: if this project has been successful and has produced good results, then this law will remain and will remain an opportunity for everyone. This analysis is necessary to continue and further examine. If this project does not bear fruit, we still have a very large number of young people who are not employed, then for the first time in Estonia something else needs to be figured out. The last question you asked was what happens to the young person who is now refusing to help, when will he get help? Sometimes the young person doesn't turn around or his family member or neighbor doesn't know something's wrong, someone's in trouble, but the social worker goes in. And if a young person has refused assistance the previous day but has a problem the next day and goes to the unemployment fund or social services, all his or her needs will be covered, his or her wishes will be fulfilled on the day the young person returns. If he says no and he doesn't turn around, he won't be bothered for ten years. But at the first appeal, all the measures that young people need at that moment will apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U127	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for the very informative and meaningful answers that made many things clearer. But I have another question: what help do these young people actually receive? I also appreciate social workers who are very hardworking and whose days are long. Now we give them something more, and they certainly do it with a big heart, but how can they still help a person to work or something? I understand that some measures are also those for which a small postcard can be sent. Maybe you can elaborate on that. The second question is that this law will be in force as early as 15 April. Is it not too short time for this to be put into effect? I understand that six municipalities may be so far away with a pilot project that they don't have to explain anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U129	Thank you very much. That is really why we wanted to meet both the people of the unemployment fund in the Social Affairs Committee and get information from the Prop. It is not the social workers themselves who are going to arrange for young people to go to work. There are still good partners for this: the unemployment fund, youth organisations, youth centres in municipalities and also with a network of Estonians. It is often information that is lacking. And if these six municipalities and their social workers have a list of young people who are not currently employed, they will not send postcards to everyone, but only to these young people. I think it's quite offensive to send a postcard with information that you can go to work, etc., to the person who is at home and receiving parental benefit or on paternity or maternity leave. He does the most beautiful work in the world, raising his children. These postcards or phone calls go to those who are not engaged in any of these activities. The representative of Kõtsla, who was present in this conference hall, also gave us a thorough overview of it, explained what the youth centres were doing. It turned out very nicely that the first no, when young people turn to young people, does not always mean 'no': often young people later contact themselves and show up. For example, if the Social Security Office is told no, it does not mean no to the NGO or anyone else. It is also sufficient for the Social Security Office to inform young people about their rights in the course of its interview or meeting if they still decide to seek help and where to turn: if registered as unemployed, the unemployment fund will be able to receive health insurance, as well as training, further education. We have very, very good vocational schools right now. I will bring back Viljandi's example, but I wouldn't be a mulk if I didn't approve of the system that was built up in this county. Old Victory Vocational School is even taken to study those who have not completed nine grades, but six or seven grades so that they can obtain some kind of profession. If your head is hard, your hands can be very hardworking and very good. There are these additional opportunities: in addition to the occupation, comprehensive education is also possible. And I'll give you another good example of Viljandi, because you're still talking about what you know and love. When a couple of years ago 100 young people were studying at Viljandi Upper Secondary School for Adults, there are now nearly 300 of them. This shows that young people too understand that without education and skills they simply cannot. Did I miss something? By the way, there is still so much of social workers that there is really an additional burden on them, and there are additional resources to do so. These six municipalities have expressed their wish and have been prepared, trained: they know how to do it. For others, the Ministry of Social Affairs will open the application rounds later. The law will apply on 15 April, but the rounds of applications will open later and information days will be held for social workers. As March 20th is International Social Work Day, I will take this opportunity to wish all of Estonia's good social workers good luck with this coming day. Power, mind, and strength for you, in order to carry on this work with great heart and love!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U130	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U131	Thank you! I welcome all youth workers on 12 August. I understand that there will be a lot of work for social workers. After all, then, we can force youth workers to deal with older people again - that would be the day-to-day development of competence. I'm asking about business data. What are these so-called business data? If a young person has established a private limited company, will we know its name, or will we look at other data: with whom he has set up a private limited company and for what purpose? And how much does that help?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U132	If a young person has established a private limited company, he or she is very busy working: he or she is an entrepreneur. If someone belongs to a council, the person is inactive in this way, it shows that he or she is also engaged in entrepreneurship, he or she is not touched or bullied. [[A voice from the hall.]] I heard a question about SMS loans there. We also have a service such as the debt counselling service provided by local governments, these very good social workers or the agreed partners they have found.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U133	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U134	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! To begin with, I will immediately say that the Free Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of draft 558. I'm gonna explain why now. This is because this is a draft which, between the first reading and the second reading, became a completely unexpected cluster bill, where two completely incoherent issues have been brought together on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The original draft has already received a new name: a draft of spying on young people, whereby the Socialist Minister for Health and Labour wishes to grant municipalities the right of their own initiative to consult all young people aged 16 to 26 who live on their territory. The aim is to find out whether there is one who is not studying, does not work, is not on account of unemployment or is inactive for some other reason. Such requests for data in different registers are intended to find out whether any of these young people up to the age of 26 may need the help of the municipality. In short, the nature of the matter. The evaluation of young people's behaviour is, of course, necessary. There are very many people, especially young people, who have been excluded from the labour market, and there is certainly a need to help them. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft act, the municipality will be able to provide proactive support to young people who may need help to return to the labour market and education. But who would have believed that one of the tools of such noble activities was the unauthorised processing of young people's personal data, i.e. own-initiative snooping? When the relevant draft came out, both the Data Protection Inspectorate and the Chancellor of Justice reacted immediately, pointing to the fact that the processing of data in this way is contrary to the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice even took the view that, in essence, this was an invasion of privacy, which was intended to be justified by almost all the reasons set out in § 26 of the Constitution, starting with the protection of health and ending with the protection of public morality. The arguments put forward are artificial. I believe many of us have read Orwell's book 1984. They understand that it would also be appropriate to say that Big Brother has decided to start working in Estonia. This is the next step towards a society of prohibition and ordering, because the state knows what young people need, even though it does not know it and does not understand it. Instead, prevention would help. First, the Social Welfare Act already in force has all the tools to collect and analyse statistical data. Secondly, it should not be forgotten that prevention plays the greatest role in dealing with youth inactivity. Here, too, the Chancellor of Justice's position must be accepted. Some keywords: to promote entry and stay in educational institutions, suitable specialties and flexible learning opportunities, internships, even more effective career guidance, flexible and simple employment relationships, etc. If the aim is simply to inform young people about the services provided by the Pathfinder, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and others, then there are other channels (e.g. blind mails) that are significantly less damaging to the individual and to privacy than the attempt to profile persons provided for in the draft and less financially burdensome to the state. The draft before us is the most obvious example of the creation of legislation where they are not really needed. Nor has there been sufficient argument or explanation as to why young people need to be involved to such an extent in their privacy. Therefore, we believe that young people in need of help need help, but a person must turn for help or someone must signal that he or she is in trouble. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U135	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U136	We have repeatedly pointed out the errors in the draft and also tabled our amendments. Now for the bill to become a cluster bill. Between the first and second readings, the Ministry of Social Affairs proposed to add a VAT exemption for personal assistant services. I would point out that a new version of the Social Welfare Act came into force on 1 January 2016. Regrettably, the difference in the VAT treatment of many disabled people and their personal helper's services has indeed been left out. At present, this service is subject to VAT and it is undoubtedly necessary to change the unfair situation as a matter of urgency. There's no one against that. At the same time, it is completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible why the Ministry of Social Affairs, who has long been aware of the problem of taxing the personal assistant service, has not already made this amendment before. It's been over two years. NGO Händikäpp also drew attention to this bottleneck in written form last November. So this certainly did not come as a surprise to the Ministry and I would like to ask why they did not start a separate legislative amendment on their own initiative earlier. Why is it so long? And why is it necessary to include an important and necessary amendment to a completely inappropriate draft before the second reading? Now we are on the question of how a member of the Riigikogu should act when the original draft cannot be supported in any way, but the amendment included must definitely be supported. After all, one draft cannot be against and in favour at the same time, because the final vote is a comprehensive one; it simply cannot be. Since it is necessary to vote in favour of a good change in order to give people with disabilities the opportunity to receive a little more service, after all, it will become more accessible and affordable for those in need of assistance, it is inevitably necessary to give a voice to the totally inappropriate part of the bill's spying. I would like to say that this is a very clever step to get what I want, but it is neither fair nor in any way compatible with good legislative practice. Therefore, we propose to interrupt the second reading of the bill and to separate two unrelated issues so that members of the Riigikogu can make separate decisions on the exemption of NEETs and personal helper services from VAT. I ask the members of the Riigikogu to support our proposal! I'm about to hand over that proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U137	I would have waited very much. Rocks Hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U138	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear colleagues of the Free Party in particular, who call this draft a bill to spy on young people! We know very precisely that every person in our country is important all the time. Every person is very, very important and every person's contribution to the development of our country is very, very important. At the same time, we know that many young people who have dropped out of school, who care for their parents at home or who have some other reason have been left out of our society's routine, normal development. They're home. And they're often afraid to come out of the house and ask for help. Such a fine organisation as Kõhtasla has been looking for these young people for several good years, and very many of them have been refocusing them on learning or continuing training, encouraging them to enter the labour market or bringing them back to society with active measures. These same Supporters have repeatedly stated that we have a series of registers in the country that contain information about one young person or another: whether he or she works, whether he or she is in the Defence Forces, whether he or she is in school. All these registers are compatible, and you can see exactly who doesn't work for these young people. Then we can go knock on a young door and ask you what your problem is and if you want us to help you. It is not every day or every week that this young person is knocked on once every ten years, as we read in the bill. And if, as a result of this same combination of registers, even some young people are brought out of our homes in every beautiful municipality, back to active life, it is only positive. Peeking. After all, I think that the previous speaker who has been on this remote control knows how much the local government is looking at and analysing various registers to find out about the concerns of one person or another. They do that all the time. So why do we suddenly, if we want to look at what our young people are busy with, call it some kind of big law of spying? I was surprised to read a comment from a member of the Free Party in Delfi. On those same days there was a Tea Link fair, where the youth organisation of the Free Party was also present. I went to them and asked you to listen, good young people, who are doing very right things, do you know what your MEPs and political leaders are doing and what they say? Don't you really want to get young people to come to the rescue like that? They were surprised. They said it seemed like a very reasonable idea. The Social Democratic Party supports both the original text of this draft and the very, very important changes that the Commission has put into this draft. And if that is why you want to call it a cluster bill, then do it, but the changes that have been introduced are very important in the daily lives of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U139	Tarmo Kruusimäe will continue to discuss the provisions of the Bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U140	Good vice chairman! I look from the one side, I look from the other side, and it feels like we don't trust our own kids. Moreover, we do not trust youth workers. I myself have been very closely involved in youth work, more than that, for 12 years as a member of the juvenile committee, I saw different stories that branched out at the committee meeting. In our part of the city there was also the secretary of the juvenile committee, who worked with a child protection specialist. These committees have now been wound up. What's in place? This will be dealt with by child welfare professionals who, I think, are not competent enough. When I, fifty, go to the young man and say, "Small hat, why don't you work? Do you want me to start looking into your data? ', then he says, 'No! '. But if a 26-year-old youth worker who has already been camping with these young people takes outdoor training, he will find a much better contact with them. I am quite a result-based person, and I understand that the initiators of this draft are also result-based: they need to get through here with this law, by four. First, they wanted to make one big information system where all the data would crash nicely and where they could surf all the time. But let's get this straight. Young people make their own private limited company. If it turns out that this company has no economic activity for three years, the Tartu County Court will liquidate it for another year. At the same time, it says that the young person is extremely active. But perhaps in good faith, he has given someone his ID card for 500 euros and had a private limited company set up that could go exactly as we will on the next item, looking at the acquisition of a small filling station and the execution of a spectacular fuel fraud. Perhaps I do not understand exactly what is so important about this draft that we should do it now. Is it because we took out juvenile committees and we can no longer deal with young people? Example: A 25-year-old young man meditates in the forest, seeking the meaning of his life. She's married when she's 21, she's married when she's 23, and at the age of 24, she's gotten into gambling. But at 25, he's come out of that hole. He meditates now in the woods, and we go and ask him, "Why are you in the woods, man, meditating? ' Maybe he's looking for himself. What are we going to fix with this bill? Today we are giving social workers in six municipalities the opportunity to process data in case they get that yes word. What if they get that no-word? I say that any party has the capacity to inform the parents of the municipality of such an opportunity, but if there are successively nos there, then we have received an empty draft We have created an opportunity for social workers who obviously do not have as good contact with a young person as youth workers, but they cannot take advantage of this opportunity. And the same case: if a 16-year-old young person now says he doesn't want help, we'll forget about him for ten years. Come on, for a young person, there are changes in life within a week, not years or decades like our age, and we need to notice all these things. But since we don't have it, we say we won't poke you in ten years. You see, the bill talks about 16- to 26-year-olds, and if a 16-year-old youth has not already said once, then we cannot talk about it with him more than when he comes to the social worker himself. (I don't need any extra time.) Maybe I don't know what this thing is for. I understand that someone really needs it, but let them say they're gonna need it horribly, baton four, okay? And what you need it for could be said honestly and directly from this Riigikogu board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U141	There are no further requests to speak. Nine amendments have been tabled for the draft 558. Let's take a look at them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. The second amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, decision of the commission: disregard. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U142	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U143	You have every right to do so. Honourable Riigikogu, the procedure for second reading of the draft law 558 continues. There is a vote on the second amendment. This has been submitted by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, decision of the commission: disregard. Please take a stand and vote. There were 11 votes in favour and 35 against, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, decision of the commission: disregard. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U144	I would like to ask for the fourth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U145	Please! I shall put the fourth amendment to the vote. This has been submitted by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, decision of the commission: disregard. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 11 was supported and 36 members of the population opposed, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, decision of the commission: disregard. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U146	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U147	Let's vote! I shall put the fifth amendment to the vote. This has been presented by Monika Haukanõm, the decision of the commission: to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. The fifth amendment was supported by 12 and 37 delegates opposed, with 1 abstention. Amendment 5 was not supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, decision of the commission: disregard. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U148	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U149	I shall put the seventh amendment to the vote. This has been submitted by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, decision of the commission: leave to account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 13 and 35 parliamentarians, with one abstention. Amendment 7 was not accepted. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. The ninth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. The amendments to the draft 558 have been examined. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft 558, but the chairman of the session has received a proposal from the political group of the Free Party of the Riigikogu and this proposal provides for the wish to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. We have another vote ahead of us. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Free Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the Act on Social Welfare and the Amendment of Other Laws 558 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 15 and 36 parliamentarians, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of bill 558 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, before the next item on the agenda, the President of the sitting will address you with one quote. The first paragraph of § 73 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu is as follows: 'The President of the sitting shall not open the discussion of the agenda if the documents on which the agenda item is discussed have not been made available to the members of the Riigikogu in due time or if the rapporteur is not present for discussion of the agenda item. " There is a waitress, but to our knowledge, the materials have not really reached the ambassadors for exactly the time foreseen. I propose that this bill be dealt with unless one of you objects. If any of you object to this being dealt with now, the draft procedure will be postponed to the next week. So, I ask if anyone is opposed to us processing this bill now and Mr Sester must be reported. I understand you don't mind. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U150	So, 5th item: Second reading of draft law 536 on the amendment of the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like to address the Chair of the Economic Commission, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you an overview of the bill bearing number 536. This is then a draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel and related amendments to other laws. As this is a second reading, I will give an overview of the process that took place between the first and second readings. I am no longer concerned with the content that was discussed at first reading, but I note as an introduction that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 6 November last year and the first reading took place on 13 December. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 29 December at 4 p.m., the Commission received six amendments from the Estonian Free Party Group. The Estonian Oil Association and the Estonian Fuel Association also gave their opinion on the draft. A representative of the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Finance, has also submitted his views on the amendments and opinions to the Committee on Economic Affairs. All these proposals and opinions on the draft can be consulted on the draft website. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for the hearing of the committee at its separate meeting on 18 January, where representatives of the initiator of the draft, i.e. the people of the Ministry of Finance, the representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the representative of MKM, the representative of the Tax and Customs Board and representatives of the Estonian Oil Association and the Estonian Fuel Association, participated. The Commission discussed the preparation of the draft for the second reading at its meetings on 20 February and 5 March. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board were also present at both meetings. The Commission decided to make five proposals to amend the draft, all submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Finance. They were mainly driven by a variety of opinions from fuel vendors. The draft act passed between the two readings of the language and has been subject to both technical and linguistic changes, which in no case alters the content of the draft. So there are 11 amendments in total, six of which are those of the Free Party and five are those of the lead committee. I'm not gonna bring them all out. I'm talking about the most important ones. Stakeholders were concerned about how to achieve as little red tape as possible on administrative bureaucracy, reporting. The amendments are also proposed in relation to the fact that when the draft came to the Government of the Republic, it stated that four times a month, i.e. each week a market participant should report on turnover and transactions. This will be replaced by twice the reporting burden: reports must be submitted twice a month rather than four times a month. Stakeholders were also asked to make an amendment on the possibility of reducing guarantees. The draft contained a formulation of 'other relevant circumstances'. The market participants asked to withdraw it and maintain it in the current wording. In conclusion, we also finalised it as an amendment, so we took it out 'other important matters'. Since the entry into force of the law had been placed on several dates in the middle of the year and part of the next year's journey, stakeholders had a request to enforce the entire text at once. In conclusion, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we agreed with the Ministry of Finance, the initiator of the draft, that the law could enter into force on 1 February 2019, with the exception of the biofuel part, which would enter into force even later, on 1 August 2019. The market participants had another request. The draft that came to Parliament from the Government of the Republic states that, once the so-called new law enters into force, a market participant will have to submit a request again to reduce its potential collateral. Market participants had a request not to submit a new application. They have already submitted it, and basically the Tax and Customs Board monitors their daily activities. If the Tax and Customs Board has reason to increase their level of security, then the Tax and Customs Board is entitled to do so, but should not make a separate application. That is also where we reached an agreement, and this amendment is also on your table today. We meet market participants, they do not have to make a new statement when the new law comes into force. This was a brief summary of the amendments. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to put this draft on the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 7 March, i.e. today, to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to conclude the final vote on 14 March. And what is important: all the decisions on the amendments were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U152	There's a question for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U153	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! When this bill arrived at the Riigikogu, the owners and keepers of the small-scale filling stations were concerned. Could it have been possible to invite them to the Commission? And if so, did you compromise on most of the issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U154	Thank you for that question. Yes, as I mentioned, we held a separate meeting at Commission level, where all the parties were present. After all, there are two parties in the fuel market; in the past there was only an oil company; now there is also the Estonian Fuel Association. Both were present with several representatives, in addition to the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance. So all the parties were present and, of course, the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs who wished to take part in this meeting. As always with such debates, some proposals can be taken on board and none can. If there was a proposal not to proceed with this draft, it was not accepted by the initiator and the Commission did not consider it necessary either. However, as I mentioned earlier, many of the provisions on the table have changed because of these discussions. Reports must be submitted twice a month instead of four times, with clearer reasons for reducing guarantees. We removed the words 'other important things' so that it would be clearer. New applications were requested in the initial version of the draft. However, they no longer need to be asked why they should not be asked, it was clear and true, so we reached an agreement. The agreement on the dates of entry into force should certainly also be mentioned. It was pointed out that some regulation would take effect in August of this year, some regulation in February of next year, and they were asked to harmonise it. And the second part of this request was the proposal to harmonise not so that the law would apply on 1 August this year, but on 1 February next year. The initiator of the draft act agreed. It was also said that then all development programmes and other things could be worked out more calmly and agreed with market participants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U155	Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U156	Thank you, manager. Good waitress, thank you for your very meaningful answer. If you look at the minutes, you can see that the people of the IRS also came to your meeting to discuss the subject. Was it also said that the tax administration would quickly examine the applications of those companies who are honest and decent? They would then be able to secure this guarantee for a minimum fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U157	Thank you. Indeed, the tax office was represented at all the meetings of the working group and also at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. As I said, there is no need to make a new application. This was agreed in the process of revising the draft. And the Tax and Customs Board confirmed that they have never delayed the reduction of possible guarantees. In order to reduce the guarantee, a market participant has to make a statement on the basis of the law in force and they have never deliberately set aside time in this process. They pointed out, for example, that we have small businesses operating with one or two filling stations, i.e. 47 pieces, and they all have some sort of reduced collateral. Sorry, I think there were 39. I'm gonna check my materials to see how many of these fuel dealers are... [[Browse papers.]] Now, we have 37 fuel sellers who, under the new system, do not exceed a minimum guarantee of EUR 5000. In total, 49 sellers are those who own one or two filling stations. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U158	Please, Karin Tammemägi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Tax and Customs Board gathers information about a large number of companies, including business secrets. How does the Tax and Customs Board make sure it doesn't get into the wrong hands? It is no secret that today, for example, trainees who are not in employment with the Office can access information from the Tax and Customs Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U160	Thank you for this question. This topic has now become a bit broader. Normally, in the context of second reading, it is necessary to report what has happened between the first and second readings that were discussed in the Commission. So I could say that this was not discussed in the Commission. But you know me, you know I don't answer like that, and I'm still trying to tell you something. As far as your question is concerned, I think that is not the case. I don't have any proof to argue with you, but I don't think it's quite the case that an intern can access any sensitive information. I'm sure you're relying on something if you say so, but I want to say no. I believe that we are all protected by existing filter systems. Sensitive information is not only in the Tax and Customs Board, but also in the bank where you have the current account. Our medical records are available somewhere in the health fund or elsewhere in the medical system. So there's sensitive information about you in several databases. We can ask a similar question to any such data bank manager and examine the information protection mechanisms, the laws that deal with these data. Efforts to ensure that data does not go into the wrong hands are certainly, in my opinion, very much done today. I believe, and I believe that my faith is based on existing laws and internal rules that sensitive data are not available to trainees at the Tax and Customs Board. But we did not discuss it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U161	Honourable waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no request to speak. Draft 536 has received 11 amendments, and we will examine them together. The first amendment was tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the decision of the commission: disregard. Another amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. The third amendment was tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. This proposal is not subject to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu. The fifth amendment is made by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, by the decision of the commission: disregard. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, this does not belong to the vote. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the proposal: take full account. The seventh amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal is not to be taken into account. This proposal, too, is not to be voted on. The eighth amendment is from the Economic Commission, the decision of the lead committee: take full account. The ninth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the proposal is not to be taken into account. It shall not be subject to a vote on the basis of the foregoing. The tenth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal is to take full account. And Amendment 11, as well as the decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the commission: take full account. The amendments to the draft proposal 536 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 536. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U162	Sixth item: First reading of 580 draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Mr. Andres Anvelt, the Secretary of the Interior of the Speaking Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U163	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President of the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and related to the amendment of other laws with the number 580. The draft establishes a new type of procedure in the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure: a short procedure. In the course of a short procedure, an extra-judicial tribunal may impose an imposition on a person at the place where the misconduct was committed, without formalising other procedural documents. The creation of a new type of procedure serves three major purposes. Firstly, the efficiency of the existing resource will be multiplied. We will reduce the time that is due to formalisation and this will allow us to devote more time to monitoring activities. The amendment gives the police the opportunity to deal more with both prevention and, for example, the handling of more serious infringements. Secondly, we are contributing to reducing over-crime. This is an important criminal policy objective, including the non- entry in criminal records of offences with less illegal content. In other words, if the rights of a person can be protected more quickly and effectively by other procedures, then criminal proceedings must remain the last choice. Thirdly, we are cutting red tape. The use of short-term procedures will significantly accelerate paperwork and save both police and other relevant people time. I will also briefly explain in which cases the short procedure will be implemented and how it will be done. First of all, the short procedure is intended to be applied to minor misdemeanours where people's lives and property were not directly threatened. The errors in respect of which the short procedure is to be applied shall be recorded in the law. The draft provides for the application of a short procedure in the case of 20 misdemeanours. In the case of infringements included in the short-term list, the police are obliged to use the short-term procedure. Short-term proceedings shall not be used in exceptional cases where there are circumstances which impose a more severe penalty for the infringement or where the person does not recognise that he or she committed the infringement. In cases where a person does not acknowledge the commission of a misdemeanour, a general or urgent procedure must be used. If the police detect an infringement, they'll detain the person and draw his attention to the violation. The existence of evidence which does not need to be documented on paper shall be used to establish the infringement. These are, for example, existing video footage, speed meter protocol, or a police officer's statement. The proceedings shall impose a specific amount of financial penalties on a person for a specific infringement and shall not include the infringement in the criminal record. The fine is between EUR 20 and EUR 80. The period for payment of the fine shall be 15 days, and it shall also be possible to challenge the decision taken in the short procedure within 15 days of the decision being taken. In the case of a short procedure, only one paper shall be drawn up, which shall be the decision on the short procedure. If a person agrees, the decision will not be made on paper, but sent to him by electronic means. This whole procedure takes about five minutes. The law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year in the draft submitted to you. This date has been set taking into account in particular the development of possible developments and the time needed to train officials. I call on you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U164	Before that, more questions. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U165	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Everything you talked about sounded so convincing and good and reasonable that it would ask, like a child's mouth, where we were or how this enlightenment only now hit us or the Estonian legal community, that it will be. Why not earlier, why now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U166	Thank you. This has certainly been a question of political choices. In itself, this bill has already been on the table of several governments and has had heated discussions. This has been a different approach to misdemeanour proceedings and the importance of the criminal record in Estonian society, the decision on people's compliance with law. A very serious discussion between me and the Minister of Justice has been going on for a long time over those misdemeanours that might be included in it. In general, one of the preconditions for creating this type of procedure is that the police's procedural system works well and information moves quickly. We cannot talk here about the e-police as a tool for Estonian police that worked for years. It is a relatively new tool that is constantly being improved. If we want to save both the time of the perpetrator and the policeman and switch to the 'infringement ticket system' in other parts of Europe, it is often called that, then the sinner will be prescribed a ticket, Ticket, and everyone will have a clear point. This also requires technical preparedness. There is no point in doing so in the same way that it exists in some European countries, that this ticket system, which allows for a faster procedure, is also based on the policeman's large paper file. He's gonna check out that ticket, but he's still filling out those papers. We don't think it's right. We think it is right that the short procedure is still electronically guaranteed. In short, the background to this draft is this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U167	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I, too, commend this bill, but my question is motivated by a comment made by the Supreme Court on the coordination page. Can you say that the training and development that the Supreme Court has drawn attention to is sufficient and we can say that this draft can be implemented as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U169	Thank you. I dare say it, and I dare say it. The operational plan for this type of misdemeanour has been on my desk for over six months. Preparatory training has been carried out for this purpose. This procedure has not yet been implemented on the street, but training and training have been in place for some time. We are now moving towards approving this bill, and I think that is quite close to the time when our police officers are ready to use this new working method. I dare say they're looking forward to it. At present, it takes an average of 20 to 25 minutes for a misdemeanor protocol to be compiled in a traffic roll. The transition to this system gives the policeman the opportunity to react more quickly to other cases or to engage in supervisory procedures. Now we often see a police machine and some other car standing on the side of the road, sometimes even several cars, and they sit there all the time. It can be prevented. So, yes, I dare say we are ready to implement the change.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U170	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U171	Thank you! Good waitress! Is the financial situation of citizens taken into account and the effectiveness of the minimum fine? Let me give you an example. When we went to Lvivi in 2015, a fan of local Lviv Karpaty advised us all to buy a bus ticket that he had already bought himself. When it turned out that the fine was about 70 euro cents, we were all willing to pay the fine, but when he said that we had to spend two hours at the police station to complete it, we immediately agreed to buy these tickets.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U172	Thank you. It is a short procedure which must also be as quick, as simple and as understandable as possible to the citizen. These cases are minor misdemeanours. I can also give you examples: driving a vehicle without motor insurance, driving a vehicle without registration, driving a vehicle without a roadworthiness test, ignoring a red light, not giving a road to a pedestrian, speeding up to 20 kilometres per hour, and also driving without a ticket in a public car, as I said, 20 compositions. In all these proceedings, the practice of applying the penalty has often been a source of controversy so far. For example, for driving a vehicle without motor insurance, the maximum financial penalty under the current law is EUR 400, but the average financial penalty imposed in 2016 was EUR 60. In the short procedure, we will set EUR 80 as a fine for this. The maximum fine for driving an unregistered vehicle shall also be EUR 400, but the average fine imposed shall be EUR 113. It will also be exactly EUR 80. We will bring fines for similar infringements to the same level. In most cases, we reduce the penalty rate, but they are all the same. This is because it would be better for people to understand and for legal clarity to be better. I really do not know what leverages are used in Lviv; the Estonian police do not have such a custom. The police would actually like to go faster with their other surveillance activities. Take someone somewhere for several hours, well, that's a waste of police resources. I don't think we're going that way. On the contrary, this bill will lead us more towards the rule of law and, to say the least, towards a more modern misdemeanour procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U173	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U174	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! We said there would be an urgent procedure and everything would be fine. But wasn't it under consideration that we might be able to process more quickly if cash happened to be in our pockets? The perp will pay the money right there, and he can move on. It could be done faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U175	Yeah, your proposal looks familiar. Decades ago, we heard and read these things all the time in the paper. I hope that Estonia will not go back in this direction. On the contrary, in this procedure, the police will impose the same fine on all people, whether the perpetrator Juhan, Igor, Mari or Marjuša, if there is a similar infringement. A person has the opportunity to pay it off just as it is now in the case of a penalty imposed on a picture of a traffic camera. If he pays it within 15 days, he will remember only the fact of his violation and that he was punished for it, but he will not see it reflected in the criminal record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U176	Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U177	Thank you! Good minister! Can you tell me from this remote unit today that all the aspects have been discussed so that it doesn't turn out to be a fine race, so somebody in the precinct is gonna tell us who's the best, because he can write out the most of these fines? I'm asking because the opponents won't attack you with the accusation that there's a ticket race open now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U178	Thank you. On the contrary, we have already moved away from the penalty race last year by increasing the number of oral warnings. The police are no longer obliged to punish a person for misrepresentation. Instead, an oral warning may be given. So I don't see any reason to be afraid of the finer race. At the same time, we're not actually losing the fine. Fine stays, it's just clearer and faster for people to set it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U179	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. How does this urgency procedure apply to foreigners?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U181	Thank you. In any misdemeanour procedure, we already have fines in our relations with some countries, including most of the countries of the European Union. But if a person has failed to pay a fine, then a short procedure will follow and eventually the matter will arrive in the enforcement system. I will make a small correction here: the urgency procedure is, by the way, another type of procedure; we are talking about a short procedure. The urgency procedure is, in fact, a type of general procedure in which some evidence is formalised in a much simpler way. For example, the video footage is not going to be described anywhere in the protocol; the video footage goes to the material during the urgent procedure. But yes, in the case of foreigners, the problem of paying the fine is greater, also in the case of fixed breaches of speed cameras. At the same time, I dare to assure you that, in fact, their share in the overall number of offences is marginal. In general, however, the number of misdemeanours in short-term proceedings is quite high. They account for almost a quarter of the entire package of misdemeanours. If we take these 20 misdemeanours, there will be some 50,000 misdemeanours down there. Thus, 50,000 entries are not entered in the criminal record. I'm sure it's positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U182	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U183	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the police are not obliged to impose fines at the moment, but unfortunately, police officers in most of the precincts are clearly inclined to do so. Anyone who fails to comply with a certain penalty plan will be deprived of the result of the payment of a performance fee, such a procedure is quite right in many places. How is the practice going to be when this new law is in force? If there's a quick way to enforce fines, maybe they're gonna be more careful about this plan? What are you predicting?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U184	Thank you. I have a first call for you: if you have a paper to show me that proves that the amount of fines collected by a police officer is linked to the result, please present it to me and I will, let us say this, the serious conclusions of someone's work. Yes, a few years ago, there was an indicative decree that told us what the legal practice could be for the same misdemeanours that I pointed out. I mean those 20 misdemeanors. The previous Police Director-General sent this paper into circulation in order to harmonise the legal practice of imposing fines. However, the fact that people's performances are linked to the amount of fines is not true. It's mythology. There is certainly a line in the state budget where the fines will be collected, we will not get over it or around it, but as a result of the impact of this bill, we do not see any appallingly large increase in the budget resulting from the fine race.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U185	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U186	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The short-term procedure is therefore a new type of procedure and is applied in a misdemeanour procedure. The reason for initiating the short-term procedure is the desire to make a specific distinction between more serious and lighter infringements in the future. The necessary amendments to this effect were discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 19 February. Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, Kristen Kanarik, Head of the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Veiko Kombusaar and Legal Adviser Henry Timberg, as well as Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure Markus Kärner of the Ministry of Justice, were present to present the draft. Like all of you in this Chamber, we heard in the Commission from the Minister that the short procedure will be applied when the law is passed in the case of minor offences that did not directly harm someone's life or property. As the Minister pointed out, there are 20 cases of misdemeanours in which the short procedure is to be applied. If you want to see the explanatory memorandum now, page 18 will begin with a list of them. The aim of the amendment is to reduce the over-criminalisation of certain less dangerous acts. Currently, there is a record of crossing a red light road or driving a broken number light, which is not the case in the future. In a short procedure, a fine shall be imposed on the basis of an infringement amounting to EUR 20 to 80. The aim is to reduce the time spent on paperwork. As the Minister has already pointed out, winning time is an important goal; instead of 20 minutes, there is a desire to cope in five minutes. The draft called for longer discussions in the Commission on a number of issues. One of them concerned the holder of the first licence, namely the situation where such a driver is in breach of traffic requirements. The draft law provides that if a fine is imposed on such a person in a short procedure, he or she will be obliged to retake the traffic theory exam. The Ministry explained that, in the interests of traffic culture, it was considered necessary that an infringement committed during the period of validity of the initial driving licence should be subject to a new test of traffic theory. Although this infringement is not recorded in the criminal record, it remains in the e-file. In the Commission, the advisor, Mrs Laide, pointed out that the law in force is different. In particular, if the holder of the first licence receives a fine in the context of a written warning procedure, there shall be no obligation to take a re-examination. The new law, however, creates the situation that if the holder of the first licence receives a penalty, he must go back to the theoretical examination. For example, if he receives a speed camera ticket for speeding or a municipal police parking ticket, they will not result in any additional consequence and will not be sent to the exam. In the course of a later debate, it was stated that the difference between sending a re-examination may also be due to the fact that it may not have been the case before, but speed cameras are the responsibility of the owner of the car, other sections requiring a misdemeanour procedure and the responsibility of the person in the short procedure. Once more, it came back to this issue in the course of the debate when Raivo Time pointed out that speeding penalties in the alert procedure and in the short procedure were not proportionate. The representative of the Ministry stressed that in one case it was the responsibility of the person and in the other case the owner, but he admitted, however, that harmonisation might need to be considered in the future. This has not been done so far, as there are different types of proceedings. In the Commission, attention was paid to the speed of the short procedure and the technical side of the procedure. Taavi Rõivas felt that the ministry was in the right direction, but the speed of the proceedings could be even greater than that proposed if a camera was used in a police car to record a statement. And there might be a way to make a card payment. According to the Minister, this is a political choice and, according to the draft, short-term proceedings will be allowed for those misdemeanours that occur the most. The Minister also noted that cameras already exist in police cars. It was also examined in more detail how this short procedure would still be carried out. Veiko Kombusaar, Head of Department of the Ministry of the Interior, explained that this is a very simple procedure that provides data from the police information system. The Commission was also authorised to indicate the prototype of the short procedure next time. Valdo Randpere asked if in the future the police would pay more attention to those who were speeding up to 20 kilometres per hour. In his view, they may have received less attention to catch up with the major offenders so far. He also noted the error margin of the speed camera. The representative of the Ministry of Interior explained that, as far as the short-term procedure is concerned, speed monitoring and related procedures remain the same. The uncertainty of the measurement of the surveillance camera is not related to the procedure but to the apparatus. The Commission also raised the question of whether the possibility of contestation in the event of a short procedure is strictly necessary. Henry Timberg stated that there have been discussions on this subject, but the Ministry considers that the possibility of an appeal must remain. Timberg believes that the perpetrator must be able to think things over calmly and, if necessary, check the circumstances. The Ministry of Justice also does not support the abolition of the right of appeal. There is no problem with the subsequent formalisation of the evidence. The Commission was interested in whether the Ministry had analysed how a short procedure could affect people's behaviour. The representative of the Ministry replied that they considered the impact to be positive, because the reduction in bureaucracy allows the police to establish more contacts, which is very important. The speaker was interested in what happens to the records currently in the criminal record which record cases that are subsequently dealt with in a short procedure and which are not entered in the register. The representative of the Ministry explained that the infringements previously recorded in the criminal record will remain there until expiration, but no new sanctions will be entered in the criminal record, as has already been said several times today. Raivo Time raised the question whether, in the event that the decision on the short procedure was subsequently contested and the procedure continued in the context of the second type of proceedings, there would be no problem with the taking of evidence. Henry Timberg doesn't see any problems in the subsequent formalisation of evidence. It is still possible that, for example, the fine imposed in the urgent procedure will be challenged and the case will be brought before the Court. And misconceptions still need to be reported on past events, and the data will have to be validated afterwards. The representative of the Ministry also pointed out that, in the case of the compositions proposed for a short procedure, the facts of the infringement are easily identifiable by means of both photo and video material. Although the Hatter wondered how it would be guaranteed that the police would not impose malicious fines. The Minister explained that in the near future the police officers will be equipped with breast cameras, as well as different internal controls available to the police. The question of card payment terminals was also addressed: could they exist in police cars. The Minister explained that a few years ago the use of card payment terminals was tested in police cars, but this service proved too expensive. The questioner pointed out that the charges for the use of the terminal were conditional. Although the Hatter asked again, from what time the infringement was committed, the infringement is considered repeated. It was explained to the Commission that the number of persons committing a similar act, i.e. repeated infringement, over a period of two years is less than 4% and the repetition of the short procedure is not taken into account. It's just that when the order is broken a number of times, the same number of times you have to pay a fine. This was, in conclusion, the Commission's discussion. It was decided to propose that the draft law be put on the agenda for the 580 plenary session by 7 March, to propose that the first reading be closed, to set the deadline for the amendments at 6 p.m. on 21 March and to appoint Urve Tiidus as rapporteur. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you for your attention, honourable Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U187	Andres Ammas has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U188	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! This question should have been asked to the Minister, but just in case, perhaps there was a discussion at the committee meeting. Does the violation of Section 49 of the Tobacco Act, which deals with smoking at a place where smoking is prohibited, belong to these frequently occurring offences, or is it not so often fined?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U189	Thank you, Andres Ammas! Good question! Indeed, this question was not raised by the Members of the Commission. The explanatory memorandum to this draft law contains very well all the statistics on infringements, and it is likely that this violation will be found. I'm looking at the counselor right now... Probably will, but I won't give you a head.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-07_U190	Dear waitress, thank you very much. We will still come to the proposal of the commission, this is the time for negotiations, if the representatives of the political groups are interested in speaking. No, it's not. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 580. I will set the deadline for the submission of 580 amendments until 21 March, according to my information, 4 p.m. Thank you for today's debates, questions and answers. I'll see you here tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 4.28 p.m.
