ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to remind you all that it is our good neighbour, the Republic of Finland, that is today's birthday, 101. Congratulations to all of them! [[Let's hear it.]] We will begin the session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 10th working week. Who wants to hand over the drafts or inquiries? Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nestor asked with obvious irony yesterday whether anyone would like to make any further inquiries or drafts to this formation. It was an obvious reference here to a failed draft decision by one vote. But I think that this composition is actually much more capable than it showed here the day before yesterday, and that is why, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I will submit a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic to make Estonia's basic and school education uniform and Estonian'. We can still do this thing, find this one voice officially in this hall, because once we've heard the words, that voice is very strong here, so we really can't get away with it. The wall has been supported by the idea that education in Estonia must be in the state language; otherwise we do not sew this society together. In particular, we have a common interest here with the Centre Party, of course, in the fact that it is the voters of the Centre Party that are now major losers, but also society as a whole. We certainly have 51 votes, which is why we are taking a new initiative here and hope that the Riigikogu is so good, even this composition is so good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U3	I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu; the management board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 63 members of the Riigikogu are present, 38 are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U4	We are going to the first item on our agenda today, the amendment of the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the third reading of the draft law amending other laws. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 724; we will start preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law on the amendment of the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote. There were 64 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U5	Let's go to the second item on the agenda. Second reading of draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 696. I would like to address the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. There's a bill of 696 before you. This concerns the amendment of the Euro Parliament Election Act. The proposals are very simple: to finish the second reading today and send the draft to the third reading when the second one is finished, and the third reading could be in this Chamber on the 12th of December. No amendments were received. And when you look on TV at which debates are currently taking place in the United Kingdom about whether or not they are going anywhere, missing or missing, the wording of our draft has become very good. I would remind you once again that the first paragraph of § 2 as amended reads as follows: 'The number of members elected to the Estonian Parliament is laid down in European Union legislation. " There will be, then, as now, 6 or 7, but life will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U7	Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 696. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U8	Let's go to the third item on today's agenda. Second reading of Bill 705 amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The presentation will be made by Priit Sibul, member of the Monetary Commission. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U9	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft directive transposes a European Union directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. The aim of the draft is to reduce both the possibilities for Estonian companies to evade taxation of profits earned in Estonia and the possibilities for non-residents to use the Estonian tax system to reduce their tax liability. The proposal implements the following rules on prevention of tax evasion to prevent the undermining of the tax base and the removal of untaxed profits from the internal market: general anti-abuse rule, taxation of residual borrowing costs, exit tax and rules on controlled foreign companies. In addition, the draft amends the procedure for making deductions from income of a non-resident natural person in the light of case law and introduces technical changes in the calculation of the tax-free income of a resident natural person and the advance payments of credit institutions. The deadline for submitting amendments was 31 October 2018. No amendments were received from the Riigikogu. After the first reading of the draft, which took place on 17 October, the draft was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 13, 19, 20 and 21 November and 3 December. The Commission asked the following stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft: Estonian Employers' Confederation, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Estonian Taxpayers' Association and Eesti Energia. As the respondents had no comments on the draft, the Commission sent the draft to a second reading. However, just before the second reading, a letter was received from our committee's Soraainen law firm, on which the Commission decided to discuss it again. We decided to ask for the draft to be removed from the plenary agenda on 21 November so that the Commission could discuss it again. On the basis of the referrals from Soraainen Law Firm and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Commission discussed the general anti-tax avoidance and anti-abuse rule, § 12 (4) of the Income Tax Act specifying § 51 of the Income Tax Act. Paragraph 51 of the Income Tax Act provides for a general rule applicable to both legal and natural persons, according to which the taxation of income does not take into account transactions whose main objectives are to obtain a tax advantage which is contrary to the objective of the tax rule and which are not actual in all circumstances concerned. The provision in this form, together with an explanation of the co-ordination of the initiator and the involvement of interest groups, passed the round. In order to better implement this general round, the initiator later included in the draft amendment to Paragraph 12 (4) of the Income Tax Act. When the Members of the Commission examined where this change came from, it was in reality not possible to fully understand who made this change there and for what reasons. In any case, the interest groups had not seen the amendment that came into the draft. The objective was that natural persons would be subject to income tax on the amount that a natural person would have received in the form of income if there had been no transaction or transaction chain corresponding to the characteristics mentioned in § 51. Attention was drawn to the example in the explanatory memorandum submitted by the originator of this supplement concerning the non-pecuniary contribution of a natural person to its company. Those who looked at the explanatory memorandum saw that there was a specific description and an example for the interpretation of § 12 (4) of the explanatory memorandum, which is quite different from the solutions made by the national courts and the judicial system and from the current Estonian tax system. The Sorainen law firm proposed to change the explanation of § 12 (4) to be included in the Income Tax Act so that the example given in the explanatory memorandum does not affect the interpretation of the provision. The explanatory memorandum cannot be amended by the committee. The Commission can make proposals on the law's own provisions and then the explanatory memorandum will change or will not change. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, after the discussions of our committee, and also my dealings with them, proposed that § 12 (4) be excluded from the draft at all. Due to differences of opinion and taking into account the other provisions of the draft directive as well as the deadlines for transposing the European Union Directive into Estonian law, the Commission, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, has prepared an amendment which will result in it being excluded from the draft of § 12 (4). This decision was taken by the Commission in a consensual manner, which includes Amendment 2. In addition, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the Commission made two amendments to the draft concerning the subsequent entry into force of some of the provisions of the draft. All explanations are given in the list of amendments. The consensus proposal of the Steering Committee is to conclude the second reading today and, if we conclude it, it could be on our agenda for the third reading on 12 December if the Bureau so decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U10	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U11	Thank you. Good waitress! As you rightly pointed out, in the original version of the explanatory memorandum to this draft, there was a description, as if it were a move when an undertaking sells a holding in its own company and has previously done so in the name of a holding company, in some way contrary to good practice or obtaining a tax advantage. I think it is very good that the Commission took the view that this is not the case, because otherwise we would direct all those selling the company to consume all the money rather than to invest any further. My question is this: can we now be sure that the principles on this issue will not change and that companies wishing to sell their shares can follow the practice that has so far been declared legal in Estonian courts, precisely with the aim of investing their capital further?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U12	I wish I could agree with you. But it is also true that every time we amend a law and supplement it with a few paragraphs, the Estonian legal space changes, therefore the questions are whether and who and how different interpretations have been found. As a reminder, this § 51 is a general provision concerning both natural and legal persons and the possibility or advantage of tax evasion concerns both one and the other. If the transaction is made and one of its main objectives is to obtain a tax advantage, it will certainly be regarded as obtaining a tax advantage. But I do hope that the distinction that Estonia's tax system has in taxing natural and legal persons will continue to apply, as well as the practice that has been in our judicial system, that as long as money is in business and business, it will be taxed in the same way, but if it comes to consumption by natural persons, then personal income tax will, of course, have to be paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U13	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U14	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! One of the biggest problems in our economic environment is low productivity and both medium and small enterprises are concerned that they still have the main steam to communicate with public authorities at the expense of productivity. Have you also done an analysis in the Commission of how much is now added to the bureaucratic burden on businesses to prove that they are honest? I assume, and I think, that most of the companies are actually honest, because otherwise we would not have tax revenues. How much does this lead to bureaucratic transactions, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and even more is our productivity being hindered?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U15	Thank you for your question. I've worked for the IRS once, under Aivar Sõerd. It does not concern honest undertakings in that regard that the directive will be transposed in the case of provisions concerning either the receipt of tax advantages or certain transactions, one of the main objectives of which is the acquisition of a tax advantage. If a company is honest in its business, it does so in a knowledge-based or non-knowledge-based way, I believe that it is not really affected and that no additional reporting is directly applicable. Rather, a legal framework is still being created in order either to avoid the possibility of optimising payments as a result of tax differences in different countries or to gain advantages as a result of these transactions. This is what this bill is also trying to solve across borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U16	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! What happened with this bill 705 is quite an interesting precedent, and this case must be remembered. I do have a question about how this could have happened. Because if that last filter, Sorainen's desperate request for help, directly to the Commission, wasn't there at the last moment, then it would have gone through. In practice, it would have created a pretty unpredictable situation. Did Minister Tõniste, when he sent this bill to coordination, not read the explanatory statement? Didn't he read the materials he signed when this bill went to the government? How can that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U18	Thank you. I don't know how to answer those questions you asked me the last time you asked me. But I might as well bounce back on this question and ask where we were in the committee, whether we did not read through these amendments and the explanatory memorandum, that we did not notice these things and did not make this amendment ourselves, but had a letter from the Soraainen Bureau to wait. I think we all need to look in the mirror, both in the Ministry, in the Minister's office and as members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U19	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U20	Thank you. I will then continue to ask about the Commission's work. You have this Commission memo in front of you. How did we have this debate in the Commission, whether we discussed this Sorainen letter separately or whether someone in the Commission paid attention to this problem? Who did this attention, did it come from the coalition or opposition lines?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U21	Well, as far as my memory is concerned, when this letter came, I approached the chairman of the committee. After this letter, we had a more serious debate in the Commission. As I read before, we in the Commission had a rather consensual debate and understanding of this provision and the explanatory memorandum. Let us say, rather than fighting for the differences and advantages of the tax system, so that we do not disperse the directive too much and give too restrictive interpretations, as I believe that the provision did, leaving some things unsuited in the end, we had a debate in the Commission after the Soraainen letter. The Ministry official was present and we had a major debate on the problem of the fact that he is narrowing it down in the same way, but on the other hand he is not giving very specific and precise times. We discussed what if the transactions were to take place immediately after you decided to make the deal, notary time was agreed, and then you raised your property, but we didn't talk about whether it had to be two hours, two months, two weeks or two years. We're still leaving too much room, and so on. And it seems to me that we in the Commission did not have any boundaries between the coalition and the opposition on this point, and we came to a consensual understanding that it would make sense for this shear to be removed. However, if paragraph 12 (4) does not exist, there is no basis for this example in the explanatory memorandum either.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U22	Good waitress, Priit Onion! No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U23	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-06_U24	I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments, three of them from the lead committee. The first amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the commission responsible: take full account. The second amendment from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment, as well as the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and of the commission, is to be taken fully into account. We have examined the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 705. The second reading is closed and today's sitting is also closed. Have a nice day of work, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 10:23 a.m.
