ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 47 members of the Riigikogu in Question Time. The Government of the Republic is present at Question Time in the following composition: Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski, Prime Minister, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U2	The first question is from Mr Herkel and is answered by Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour in charge of the Prime Minister. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. One of the local governments of Estonia, Tallinn, regularly orders television broadcasts from the external channel PBK, including it before the elections, during the so-called active agitation period. And these broadcasts make it clear that they are promoting the politicians of the Central Party. After the 2013 elections, Edgar Savisaar and many others had to pay for the clips ordered for Tallinn money and other ads afterwards. My question is whether the current laws allow Mikhail Kõlvart to recover money by analogy and, if not, what steps are planned for the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U4	Thank you very much. Firstly, the misuse of public resources in the interests of any party is certainly unacceptable and does not go to the political culture of Estonia. The fact that the city of Tallinn has abused taxpayers' funds at different times to order programmes and advertisements for this money, which have proved to be part of the party's election or reputation campaign, is certainly deplorable. This has also been a topic of debate in Tallinn in many local elections. As far as I know, apart from the Centre Party, at least the majority of political parties have unequivocally condemned it, including my party. I believe that if there were a different city government in Tallinn now, these decisions would also be different. Now, the other part of your question concerned the legal possibilities in this situation. In the meantime, as you pointed out in your question, there has indeed been both an additional legal basis and the necessary legal practice in the Committee on the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties to carry out this type of procedure, and if it is found that there is illegal use of funds, sanctions will also be imposed. Specific decisions are, of course, within the remit of this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U5	Andres Herkel, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U6	Thank you. Minister, thank you for your answer. I think that what you say 'worthy of remorse' is the direct theft of public money in the clearest Estonian language, which is happening before our eyes. But here's my question. In press sources, information circulates that in these three TV shows the guidelines are shared not only from Tallinn City Government, but also from Stenbock House, through the staff of the Prime Minister's Office. Jüri Ratas has also been quite represented there. So what are you gonna tell him? What steps should be taken, and what should be the Prime Minister's assessment of the situation to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U7	I am familiar with the journalistic text that raises this issue. I think the core of the problem, however, is that I did not classify this act as deplorable, but qualified it as misuse of public resources. This can also be said more explicitly, but it is precisely the misuse of public resources that is deplorable. I think both of us are morally alike. More important than what particular persons are invited to the program, however, is that this programme is ordered with the money of the Tallinn taxpayer. This situation is unacceptable. I do not think that this practice should continue. If there are signs of a false or criminal offence, then of course there should also be legal intervention. And it is certainly appropriate to discuss whether Estonia's legal space should, in the event that the current one is insufficient, need some improvements in order to prevent this type of misuse. Tallinn has been the most marked example here, both in terms of visibility and the size of the media, but not the only one. We also know examples of a number of other municipalities, where municipal funds have actually been made up of electoral propaganda of a party in power, which certainly does not match the principles of democracy or the good practices of public administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! You yourself have also said in commenting on this issue that there is a very high number of contacts in PBK and that the provision of information to the Russian-speaking population is not a problem. Based on the sources and analysis provided by the press, two patterns can be read. The first is that these messages are ordered with a certain focus. The structure of the entire programme is such that Moscow's non-friendly opinions and statements about us also coincide with the ideology and image of these programmes. Could it also justify in the future that taxpayers' money is used to order broadcasts from any television channel? We say that everything is fine, even though we clearly understand that it is the attitude of our country, literally.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U10	Thank you. That is now a broader question. This discussion, which has taken place in Estonian society on this subject, is certainly very important. First of all, I am pleased that, unlike several years ago, when a similar subject has been discussed, no one is essentially questioning the fact that we need to bring information relevant to the state and society to the Russian-speaking population of Estonia. There is certainly a legitimate and logical expectation on the part of the public, which I fully share, that the Estonian state could have a public broadcasting channel to do so, so that we should not use the channels to which you referred. I think that the Estonian state took an important step when we adopted a fundamental decision to strengthen the Russian-language part of national broadcasting by creating ETV+. We were able to choose between different solutions. You were also a member of the government at the time, and you remember these discussions. And we agreed at the time that this would be a long-term process: we expect the Russian ERR channel to gradually perform this socially necessary function on radio, on TV and on the Internet. I think that today, many years later, it is appropriate to ask how these initial objectives have been achieved. The Estonian public has rightly asked why the ERR in Russian is not capable of bringing information to the people in sufficient volume and so effectively. And I think this is a question for the ERR board: what are their proposals to strengthen the Russian-speaking national broadcasting? Is there a need for additional resources, and what are the new ideas? I think this should be considered seriously at the level of the government, why not also at the level of the Riigikogu. Of course, politicians do not intervene in programming, but a strategic decision should be made here, where a vision and vision of the ERR management would certainly be expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U12	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U13	Thank you, Minister. Your leader and teacher referred to your field, I refer to his field or interest on your behalf. How are you feeling? You have always defended the idea that funding culture depends on fighting evils. They have now been fought manly: the evil has been increased, but the funding has been reduced. How do you feel about a series of alcohol excises in the current financing scheme, has it been a successful policy or should you change your mind? People are likely to drink more, but excise duty has started to come sharply less.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U14	Thank you for your question. Indeed, I risk invading my colleague's field without having full expertise there. However, as far as I am concerned, there is no statistical indicator to confirm the claim you have made that people drink more. In my opinion, all the health indicators that we can monitor still show strongly the opposite trend of people drinking less. Indeed, the amount of resources for cultural capital directly depends on the receipts of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco and on the tax on gambling, in the same way as the amount of resources of the Gambling Tax Board. Nothing drastic has happened to the budget of the Cultural Endowment. Although the purchase of alcohol has decreased, as a result of the relatively large increase in excise duty, the receipts of cultural capital as a whole have been in a growing trend so far. I really do not know what the collection was in the fourth quarter of 2017. Finally, I will be able to answer this question once this information is received. I'm afraid I don't have that information today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U15	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U16	Thank you, Minister. That's what I'm saying. Drinking's been reduced, but still, alcohol excise is awfully screwed up. And it is obvious that the Estonian market is currently flooded with cheap alcohol from Latvia. It's definitely drunk, and it's estimated that this percentage has reached 40. I'm not talking about taxes coming or going. But as a result of this policy, we have actually lost at least 50 million taxes in six months: mostly excise duties on alcohol, plus VAT and everything else - at least 50 million! I'm still asking you about the alcohol duty line. Next time, this instability may hit tobacco excise and this has already happened once with a gambling tax. Are you willing to take a little part in the idea that the funding associated with vices is not only perverse but also unreliable in nature? Is there any way to hedge this risk with new taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U17	Thank you very much for your support. One could certainly wonder what other taxes could be directed from the state budget to the Ministry of Culture's budget in support of culture as well as sport. I'm always willing to go along with it. And I am very pleased that the honourable questioner, who also has multi-annual competence in the field of finance, uses his knowledge to find these potential new sources of revenue. I have to say that, when you look at similar experiences in Latvia, for example, the decoupling of these taxes from the proceeds of cultural capital, just as we have had some ideas from time to time, has not given a positive effect to this area of activity. My Latvian colleagues have repeatedly confirmed that they are yearning for a model like that in Estonia, regardless of the share of excise duty receipts at the Latvian-Estonian border, which has been discussed for years. But once again, as the questioner also has experience of working in the Ministry of Finance, it would be interesting to know how you have reached 40% if according to the data of the Ministry of Finance, the share of alcohol purchased from Latvia in domestic consumption in Estonia is 15%. This seems to be a slightly amplified argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U18	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Current figures show that this year around €40.50 million of alcohol excise duties will not be collected compared to the original budget. The autumn forecast is also very much behind. But this year, 2018, there will be no €80.100 million as compared to the 340 million excise plan. This obviously affects the financing of cultural capital, given that many measures and things have been planned in connection with the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. For example, the Cultural Endowment also finances the construction of the hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre with 5 million dollars. Do we still have any cuts this year compared to the projects planned earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U20	Cultural capital is known to make its own budget, pay things out and make final decisions according to the actual receipts. The financing of the Cultural Endowment is project-based. If, indeed, the income of cultural capital is significantly reduced compared to what is forecast, cultural capital is likely to provide a little less subsidies and scholarships. But here, too, I am pleased to note that another former Minister for Finance and an expert in this field are prepared to consider what additional sources of funding would be in a situation where the income of cultural capital may be reduced. I am very much counting on you, and I am prepared to cooperate fully.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U22	The next question is Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tammele. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U23	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! At the beginning of this year, the new tax, namely the truck tax, entered into force. And according to this year's budget, the revenue forecast from the new tax will be EUR 17 million to the Treasury. Of this EUR 17 million, 13 million is forecast to come from Estonian companies. Can you please give us an overview of how many of the companies at whose expense this 13 million comes belong to the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U24	Thank you for your question. It is true that, until the beginning of this year, there were two countries in the European Union that did not have a road user fee. These were Finland and Estonia. This year, road user charges have also been imposed in Estonia. If we travel in the Tallinn, Tartu, Tartu, Tallinn, Pärnu, Pärnu or Narva direction, we will see how many trucks with a foreign number travel on this route. So far, they did not contribute a cent to Estonian roads; from this year they must start to contribute. And it is no secret that we should treat our businesses equally with our neighbours in terms of conditions of competition. When the Lithuanian dairy car came on Estonian roads, it did not have to pay a cent, but when the Estonian car went on Latvian roads, it had to pay. The dairy workers themselves turned to me to put an end to this inequality so that in the end others would also pay for the use of our teas. As I said, there were only two countries free of tea. Estonia did it now. I don't know if Finland is doing this or what their plans are. As far as farmers are concerned, every tax is a tax that makes production more expensive. But I can assure you that tractors and combiners are not taxed, i.e. agricultural mobile machinery is not taxed. Cars are taxed. And luckily, for cars, it's possible to use this system that you pay according to how many days you use these cars.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U25	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U26	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm glad you answered a lot of questions I didn't ask. However, if the product is compared with the Latvian dairy carrier, it must be acknowledged that now the Estonian dairy carrier, the Estonian entrepreneur, is also paying for travelling on the roads of his country. This certainly does not make market competition easier. It is a question of political choice which taxes we impose for what reasons and what profits. The fact is that we really get EUR 4 million out of foreign companies' pockets, but 13 million, or the lion's share of this income, still comes from our own businesses' pockets. You are the Minister for Rural Affairs and you should at least stand as good as possible in theory for the well-being of companies operating in your sector. Please give us an overview of how many million euros will come specifically from the transport of agricultural products due to the new truck tax. It is known that the grain is not transferred from the bunk to point A (B) by combine, but by means of trucks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U27	Thank you. We'll find out by the end of the year. We also made our proposals and comments when this tax was introduced. Let me give you an example. If the company has one N2 truck, its annual cost will increase by 0,4 to 0,5 per cent. At the same time, we should put aside the way the farm survives it as a company. In my opinion, the great relief and assistance for them is that the 10% increase in excise duty on diesel from the previous government in 2018 was abolished, leaving EUR 35 million not only in farmers' pockets, but also in transport companies. The second thing we have been able to do: we have stopped saying that agricultural machinery should have a transmitter, which must have been discussed for a very long time by the previous government. There were a lot of these conversions. That's what we've been able to do. So you always have to look at both the negative and the positive sides. In summary, I do not think that the tax burden is burdensome for farmers. If we add that this year, direct payments will increase by around EUR 10 million and will pay EUR 18.4 million in transitional payments, it will give the farmer confidence. He doesn't feel punished. But I say that the most positive thing is that agricultural techniques are not directly taxed. The second thing is that this tax can also be paid according to the number of days, it does not have to be an annual fee. When the harvest season begins, it will be a relief. But the total amount, of course, we'll find out by the end of the year. I think that the claim that we have not defended the agricultural sector or that it has died out does not confirm these examples, i.e. the withdrawal of the escort car, additional subsidies, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I would like to ask for a follow-up on why the Ministry of Rural Affairs or the Minister for Rural Affairs did not apply for tax differentiation. It seems to me that you are a bit wrong, because agricultural machines can use a different fuel than big trucks that wreck big roads. You can't really commit these decisions. Why was the same distinction that different governments have defended in view of the possibility of using different diesels not sought?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U30	Thank you. Mr President, you know very well that the increase in diesel excise duty is also directly linked to the increase in excise duty on diesel with special labelling. After all, they're connected, it shouldn't be unknown to you. If you raise diesel excise, the price of specially marked diesel will also increase, that is what we know. Now that there hasn't been a question of distinction. It does not exist in the European Union. Three and a half tonnes is the minimum rate that the European Commission has taken into account. The distinction has been asked, we wanted to set it at 10 or 12 tonnes, but the European Commission did not allow it. In fact, we must respect the rules of the European Union. They are also taken into account by the rest of the European Union. I read today's Äripäev and this discussion is wider. The European Union's financial cover for roads is known to decrease. The European Union is thinking about extending road user charges to all cars. We are, of course, opposed to this, because it would hit rural areas and rural people very strongly. Every tax has its purpose. This tax is not collected for any other reason, it has a very direct purpose, so that our roads are in order, and the means of transport that do not belong to the Estonian state would also pay some kind of remuneration to our country. When a car came to us from Russia for example, took fuel from it, left it in Paldiski and drove back, the Estonian state did not receive any cents for it. That is why a lot of people turned directly to us to do so. Estonia had this distinction, Latvia and Lithuania do not have it. As I said, Estonia and Finland are two countries that have not yet implemented this tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U32	A question for Minister of Culture Indrek Saare. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It has been decided to take the People's Culture Centre from Tallinn to Viljandi today. This decision was preceded by an analysis commissioned by the Ministry of Culture, which was carried out by the Ministry of Finance and discussed three locations, Rapla, Paide and Viljandi. As you know, you yourself have said in this Chamber that this first analysis did not satisfy the Ministry of Culture. But why was the second analysis ordered only for Viljandi? As we know, only Viljandi was established in this second, secondary analysis, which has raised doubts about people. It is believed that the decision had actually been made a long time ago and that this analysis and the questioning of opinions were nothing more than an engagement exercise. Can you explain that, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U34	Thank you! No, not in my case. I was sincerely interested in what this analysis of the possibilities that the Centre for Folk Culture has to do with the location where it operates, the opportunities for cooperation and synergies on the ground. The problem with the initial analysis was that there was absolutely no view of the environment to which they were going. Perhaps what exists in these three cities was not really appreciated. For example, accommodation facilities are one of the basic things. If the Centre for Folk Culture organises a great deal of training, it is elementary that it must have a choice of accommodation facilities or that it must have accommodation facilities at all. If we now compare accommodation in Viljandi and Rapla, they are like night and day. Rapla's so-called Tallinn satellite has never contributed much to investing in building overnight accommodations. There is a very decent hotel network in Viljandi. This is just a technical fact on the subject. But it is very clear that another advantage of Viljandi is why it has been said about Viljandi for years. In fact, there is already a school where people who are the masters and supervisors of our folk culture study. There will be a great deal of the post-growth of the People's Culture Centre. And in Viljandi, there are facilities for carrying out folk culture training, where it can be done on a professional level, and which, in the same level of equipment and selection, neither Paidel nor Rapla can offer. These were some examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U35	Krista Aru, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. However, I ask you for a clear answer as to whether this second analysis was ordered only for Viljandi. You didn't answer that in your first reply. And the second question is, directly, that the People's Culture Centre itself proposed to move to Rapla. Then 60% of people would have agreed to continue working at the centre, with only 10% going to Viljandi. This center has really done a great job. It may have been difficult to launch it, but it is now extremely necessary for Estonian folk culture. Is it possible to compensate very quickly for the fact that this centre is actually losing its potential by redeploying like this? Or where will this new synergy come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U37	I'll answer in black and white. The purpose of the analysis, as well as the specified objective, was to analyse and compare all three cities. I'm not obsessed with it being Viljandi, so it could be Paide or Rapla. If we now come to what the analysis showed, versus what the workers would have liked, it would of course have been very easy for the workers to go to work in Rapla. It's understandable, but we don't know how many percent of them would have stayed at Rapla in the long run. And that's how many percent now that the move has finally been decided, all these statements were made before the decision was made, actually going to Viljandi, we'll see in the process. Finally, when we talk about regional policy choices, it must be remembered that even those who lose their jobs in county centres are not happy about it. For them, too, it is very difficult that they have to go somewhere to look for work in another city. It happens to us every day, it's happened for years. Now we're trying to balance it a little bit. But in the case of Rapla, this regional political effect, which, however, was not a prerequisite for our comparison, would have been questionable. If these people had stayed in the direction of Rapla, the probability that they would have become members of this community or that people would have jobs on the ground would have been significantly lower than in the case of Paide or Viljandi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U38	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U39	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Interesting subject. Please specify more details: in what time will relocation take place, where will Viljandi be relocated, where the centre will work and what will it all cost? Maybe there's something else you know about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U40	At first, the opinion of the Folk Culture Centre itself was that it would be best to move in the summer so that they would like to do it during this summer. After the last discussions, it has been achieved that there is a high likelihood of rushing. The final knowledge of the conditions for moving was still coming at the end of the year, and we have now agreed that the goal is that by 1 January 2019 the Folk Culture Centre would have fully moved to Viljandi. The People's Culture Centre is currently selecting rooms, they have recently visited Viljandi to review various options. We have agreed that we will not assume any obligation to fill the vacant premises of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which may not be best suited to the People's Culture Centre, but we will find spaces that are indeed the best to perform the functions of the centre. But, of course, as specialists, in cooperation with people who are curating in our field, they try to find the best solutions, also by looking at the optimal price for which we get space. We do not want to spend funds in an unreasonable way, but rather put them in content. The cost of moving is specified: it depends on which rooms we will finally find and what costs it entails. But we have taken this into account in the budget, and these funds will be guaranteed to the Centre of Folk Culture in 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U42	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour responsible for the Prime Minister's duties, now answers the question posed by Arto Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U43	Thank you. Good minister! My question concerns the information war and the Russian television channels. All intelligent people in Estonia understand that PBK is neither independent nor free press, that it is a tool of the Kremlin information war. Even the leading central parties acknowledge that this is a propaganda channel. You have just condemned the fact that the city of Tallinn is spending public money there, which is very reasonable on your part. I hope that you will not be allowed to spend national taxpayers' money there either. However, you have called for cooperation with PBK and called ignoring this channel an inadequacy of integration policy. To be honest, I'm a little confused about what your point of view is. Is it necessary to cooperate with such propaganda channels and, if so, why do you support such cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U44	Thank you. I'd be happy to explain. As I have already answered Mr Herkel thoroughly to the first question, I do believe, firstly, that the misuse of public money by one party would be a propaganda of a party, both in this channel and in other channels, is unequivocally unacceptable. The second topic, to which I also referred: this discussion is undoubtedly an important discussion about the way in which the Estonian state can bring important information of social and national importance to the Russian-speaking population of Estonia. I think that this need is quite clearly there. This is a question of social cohesion, but also, more generally, of security. I also said, in reply to the first question, that I am not satisfied with the current situation. Like the Estonian public, I think that the Estonian state could have a strong public information channel in order to bring important and necessary information to the Russian-speaking population of Estonia. The government has also taken the necessary steps in this direction. In 2014, a fundamental decision was finally taken to strengthen the Russian ERR by launching ETV+. But let us admit that we are now in a situation where he does not yet fulfil this objective to the extent that he should. I think this is a challenge for the management of the ERR: what should be done differently? I would prefer a situation where this channel you mentioned should not be used for public information purposes in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U45	Arto Aas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U46	Thank you. It seems to me that there is no clear answer here, which is why I will take this opportunity and change the subject a little bit: I will ask you about another information or word war. Your coalition partner, Urmas Reinsalu, has humiliated women, called them a flock of chickens, and personally regretted the condemnation of violence against women. This is the Minister of Justice, I recall. You yourself have, in the past, very verbally fought for fundamental values, European values and fought great battles here with other political forces on these issues. However, it seems to me that you are very modest in this matter, that your mouth is full of water. I'd like to ask why you're silent. Is this problem awkward for you? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U47	Thank you very much. You predicted I wouldn't answer your question. Unfortunately, the President of the Riigikogu did not give me the opportunity to continue my answer. So I'm going to take this opportunity to finish my answer. What I call integration political inadequacy in that radio comment, where there is a wider context around it, when you listen to it, is probably possible to understand this idea, the opinion is that if a large part of the Russian-speaking population of Estonia is left without important information, Estonia has nothing to gain from it. During my so-called political years, I have worked in an area where predominantly Russian-speaking residents live. I know very well what this difference in information is. There are serious consequences. So I think the objective is clear: we need a channel to better inform the Russian-speaking population. And once again, I'd prefer to be able to do it by national broadcasting. I think we could all think together about how he could play this role better. I will now answer your second question, although I did not identify a component of the information war on this issue. The Minister of Culture poured water on me, but my mouth is completely empty of water. There is no doubt that Mr Reinsalu's statement is not only unsuccessful, but also unambiguously deplorable. The use of words and a position that seems to justify violence against women would certainly not be expected of a member of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U48	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U49	Thank you. Contrary to Arto Asa, I was satisfied with the first part of your response ♪ I thought you exceeded yourself from the point of view of PBK, and the second end got a little worse. But I'm not at all happy with your previous comments. You have commented on the PBK for some reason on Riga's train, said that if there is no Riga train, wouldn't we even be driving a weird vest like that? Now try to say a little more concretely whether you are satisfied with the situation where these channels are flooded with certain politicians who will win the Russian elections, or whether you will be able to make your comment on the fire extinguishers and the Riga train. Is that the result you really wanted in the briefing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U50	I am very pleased, Mr. Ligi, that you are following my statements with such attention. I will say very briefly that no, this situation does not satisfy me. And I think it should not satisfy Estonian society as a whole either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U52	A question for Minister of Culture Indrek Saare. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Today, this relocation problem has already been addressed in several ways, but as you stated in your presentation, you now have specific relocation plans. I ask you from this perspective: how many people are forced to leave work under your ministry because of the relocation? How many people go along with these things that you're moving to Viljandi now and so on? People are still the most important, as is how all of this affects their families, even to the jobs of their spouses, etc. That's a pretty important part of this. Maybe you'll light it up a little bit on this side.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U54	Thank you for your question. Of course, it's uncomfortable for these people. Often, it is also very difficult to reorganize your life as a result of such moves. But if we look at a bit of a wider picture, for all those people who would like to work in Estonian regions, somewhere in county centres, where the public sector constantly shrinks jobs and moves them to Tallinn, this reverse process is also very, very uncomfortable. I cannot tell you today how many people from the current People's Culture Centre are actually going to work at Narva or move to live there. That will become clear over time. I don't even have an answer to the question of whether the current Head of the Folk Culture Centre will continue in a situation where people are moving to Viljandi, and I spoke quite clearly about the Integration Foundation. We do not even know this because the Head of the Centre for Folk Culture has not yet finally decided whether or not he will complete this process and go to work in Viljandi as well. But the Folk Culture Centre is, for example, in its call for competitions, he is looking for an employee who had already been clearly told that the job would be in Viljandi. People are looking for this job in Viljandi. So some transitions are definitely smoother, that they're predictable. On the other hand, we offer, of course, maximum support and advice to all the employees of the Folk Culture Centre so that they can think through their plans and decisions as well as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U55	Arno Bridge, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U56	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned above that the financial side is not exactly clear. How can it be that there will be restructuring, but there is no indication of how much it will all cost? There have been a number of statements in the press that the government currently has no idea how much this relocation will cost. And it seems your ministry doesn't have that overview yet either. Or do you have some kind of indefinite number, how much is all this going to cost? Is this already planned for the 2018 budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U57	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of Culture manages both the People's Culture Centre and another institution. I've already told the big secret of the Integration Foundation's decision to move to Narva because of the linguistic misdemeanour above. It's a joke, of course, that this is a big secret, too, this process has been going on a long time ago. When a new head of the Integration Foundation was sought last year, the prerequisite for the competition was that a person is ready to go to work in Narva. This is the way the head of this institution has been elected. Of course we know what all this is going to cost. We have calculations and calculations, and we have taken them into account in the budget. But as I said, since this process is not yet complete, i.e. we do not quite know which rooms we will have at what price or how much a piece of furniture costs, we do not know the exact number right now. We have taken into account certain orders of magnitude, they are planned for the budget, and we can do it nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U58	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U59	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! On the same subject in the previous discussion, my esteemed penguin asked twice the same thing about this analysis, which was first done for three cities. He asked if the second time the analysis was carried out only for Viljandi. Respectable Minister, that was a question of whether. I'm gonna ask him again now: yes or no? Was the second analysis done only for Viljandi?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U60	The purpose of this analysis was to compare the three cities and make the most appropriate choice. Thus, no one could set up a task of analyzing just one city, that was the comparison of three cities. The analysis makes no sense, and it is not adequate to go into a city to analyze. At first, when the issue arose, indeed, the first thought that was said was that, in any case, the consequences of moving should be analysed. After that, I think the City of Paide suggested that you come to Paide. The debate went on about what is best in terms of movement, logistically speaking, than looking at where the people from the ends of Estonia come from. So Paide as the heart of Estonia went into this analysis. And the Folk Culture Center said we'd add Rapla, please. That's how Rapla went in there. And we analyzed which of these three cities is the best option.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U62	The Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm answers and asks Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! The decline of the population calls into question the sustainability of social security for the Estonian nation, culture, education and science, the competitiveness of the economy and the well-being of the economy. The Prime Minister also considers that finding a solution to population problems is now one of the biggest challenges for the Estonian government. This is also set as the primary objective of the government's activities. How does the Ministry of Rural Affairs plan to contribute to this objective in the year that began?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U64	Thank you, dear questioner. That is a very topical question and I will try to answer you. One of the best news in recent weeks is that Estonia's population is 3070 people larger at the beginning of 2018 than at the same time a year earlier. I think it's pretty positive and good news. After all, we know that in rural areas the population decreased significantly, by more than 11000 people during the 2004/2016 period. We also know what the reasons for this have been. These are crises in agriculture, the disappearance of communication offices, shops and everything else from the country. But it seems to me that the population decline has slowed down, and maybe we can turn the number of people on the ground as well. As you have already said, an increase in the population of Estonia is one of the general objectives of the Government of the Republic's order of 28 December. Work is being done on this, and there are a lot of programmes for this. I will read out the programmes under the Ministry of Rural Affairs: MAK Action 6.1 "Starting the business of young farmers', for which EUR 22.1 million is foreseen; MAK Action 6.4 "Investing in diversification of economic activities', for which the budget is EUR 56 million; MAK Leader action, for which the budget for the programming period is EUR 90 million; Setomaa's development programme with a budget of EUR 256000; Peipsiveere's development programme, which is EUR 256000. So there are quite a few programs with which we try to strengthen these regions and keep life on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U65	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U66	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, there have been programmes so far and it seems that they will continue in the future. However, these programmes have not led to the reduction of the rural population even though it has slowed down, in fact it is still continuing. According to the media, small towns are also dealing with this decline. This in turn leads to a reduction in services, rural shops and post offices are gone. You yourself have spoken very strongly about this in this Chamber in your own time. The rise in excise duty is also striking: cars and transport are extremely important for the rural population. Could you still mention a few specific things that would help people in the country to live a little more equally with urban people so that they really do not disappear? After all, the programmes have not actually brought benefits to this country: the population has still fallen. And this decline in the population will lead to higher prices for water, sewerage, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U67	Thank you. The actions of these programmes that you have been asked for are over EUR 200 million or more. This will provide an opportunity to diversify rural areas and create new jobs. Above all, we need faith in people. It is also necessary for enterprising people to turn their faces more towards rural areas, because there are considerably more opportunities in the country than in the city, especially in our climate. When comparing climate change in the rest of the world and our climate, we have enormous potential in the country so that people can be delivered there. There is also the possibility of telejobs. I'm gonna put in a little bit more building a broadband network in the government program, and they found extra money to build the last mile. Free transport creates a deep controversy, there are differences, but it's definitely coming. Let us see how much the income base of local governments will be increased. You're even a person from a local government background. The salaries of teachers and cultural workers are also part of the rural economy. They keep the countryside. So these instruments and measures are quite extensive, with which we are trying to preserve rural areas, and we hope that the reduction in the number of people will slow down. But first and foremost, courage is needed for enterprising people, because there are many opportunities in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U68	Urmas Kruuse, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U69	Thank you. Minister for Rural Affairs, as a minister in the government, you would have been able to stand up for rural areas in such a way that the proportion of personal income tax would not have been inclined towards Tallinn, but a fine-tuning fund for small municipalities would have been greater. I didn't hear any beeps at that address. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U70	Thank you. You are wrong again because you know very well that the previous government reduced the municipal income base from 11.93% to 11.4%, which was to be in place for a very short period of time. The current government has decided to restore this revenue base and hundreds of millions will return to the municipalities. The municipality is the place where the countryside is actually being designed and set up to have jobs in the countryside to make life work there. This is a very big step: all these investments in roads and so on. We also want to implement the Old-Võrumaa and Mulgimaa programmes, and I hope that this will be reflected in the next budget. So we're looking for ways to restore what's been lost in the intervening period. I don't think people have lost hope that it's possible to live in the country. But, as if nothing had been done for the municipalities, it is a quite wrong argument. Reducing the income base from 11.93% to 11.4% has cost municipalities hundreds of millions of euros during this period. With that money, the country could have done a lot to keep these people living there and that life would have worked there. But this government has a pretty big program ahead of it, and I hope it's a success. I would hate to say that, compared to 2017 and 2018, one of the great success stories of this government is that 3,000 more people came in over a year. But, of course, a great politician would say that this is one very positive step taken by the government that the number of residents in Estonia has increased in a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U71	It's 1:56.45. There's another vigilante who can ask. I would also like to mention the minister to whom the question is addressed. Monika Hauanõmm was the fastest. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U72	Thank you. My question is addressed to Mr Ossinovski, the Minister for Health and Labour, and it concerns the health centres, the measure that is just being announced and the county of Viljandi. It is known that a regulation is being approved that will channel additional funding to promote a health centre. My question is why it has been decided to use the first-level measure to promote the hospital in Viljandi, without a competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U73	Thank you. This has been done for two reasons. Firstly, the basic objectives of the measure on the reconstruction of health centres have almost been achieved in the first round. There were no projects from some county centres, and some have had complications, so we will open the second round to fill these few gaps. And there is also money in the measure, which is why we are focusing the released instrument on improving other health infrastructure. Two priority investment projects are pending in the health field of the Ministry of Social Affairs: one is Viljandi Hospital and the other is the second stage of Ida-Viru Central Hospital. Since Viljandi Hospital is now launching a new model, which seeks to integrate specialist and primary care wisely, we are also trying to find a way to combine social services, primary and specialist care in terms of financing. So such a single project in the context of achieving the objectives of this action is very well suited.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U74	Thank you, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski, Prime Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U75	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U76	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The eight members of the Free Party shall submit an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior. When I hand it over, I have a feeling that has an unfamiliar name, déjà vu, which means that you have already been in a similar situation. In particular, the questioning concerns further buy-out of the countries at the eastern border. We once asked Home Secretary Pevkur about this. There have been many disputes with landowners. I understand that these processes are more or less successfully behind us right now. Now, however, it has been surprisingly said that negotiations must be reopened because the 10 - metre - wide border zone is too narrow. As a result, we have a number of questions about the planning of the Interior Department's activities. How has this been revealed only now, after three years? How can people still be put back in this state of negotiation? How much burden does the state have on both the financial and the administrative burden? And so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U77	I have adopted one inquiry under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, and we will send it forward. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu are present and 15 are not present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U78	We're going to the Wednesday agenda. First of all, the third reading of the draft law implementing the Law of Property Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law amending other laws (amending the fee for tolerance to the technology network). I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U79	Good ambassadors! When we dealt with this draft at second reading, I announced that the Free Party Group had not shaped its position at that point. We've done it for today. The group and I have taken the view that we do not support this draft, because, unfortunately, there is still an unknown longer-term impact on the adoption of this law. Our judicial system is already overloaded and it is not good if we increase this burden further. Secondly, the way in which the possible amount of this compensation is to be determined is correct, but this is certainly not sufficient in the current market situation. According to the draft, there is no fair remuneration and, therefore, we are not in favour of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U80	On behalf of the Group of the Valdo Randpere Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! As I said as rapporteur for the Commission at second reading, it is not possible to say in this draft that everything is now very clearly and well resolved and that we now know what will happen in the future. At the same time, the current situation in which the Supreme Court has declared the current situation to be unconstitutional is not good. Unlike the Free Party Group, which, as I understand it, has shaped the common position that they are against the draft, there is no such common position in our group. This is particularly because neither we ourselves had any very good proposals for resolving the situation in the course of the procedure for this draft, nor in the last five years. In life it is quite often that you can do the right things and can do things right. Very rarely, you can do the right thing right. But if it is necessary to choose, I think that the right things should be done. I am voting in favour of this bill. I think it's the right thing to turn it into a law. If this really results in a huge number of litigation between landowners and owners of utility networks, then at least we have something to build on and we have practice. In this case, it will be easier to ensure good regulation on the basis of something other than a sense of conscience. Right now, I think there's a better law than no regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U82	There is no further wish for negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law implementing the Law of Property Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws (amending the fee for tolerance to the technology network) 405. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 8 against and 5 abstentions. Bill 405 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U83	First reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, the initiating waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the Tax Administration Act 558. The aim of the draft is to create a support system for the Youth Guarantee. As we know, the youth unemployment rate in Estonia is nearly twice as high as the average unemployment rate, and in recent times it has started to increase despite the overall good labour market situation. As an average for the first three quarters of 2017, the youth unemployment rate was 14.1%, while the overall unemployment rate was around 6%. Non-employment and non-learning of young people can have far-reaching personal but also social socio-economic consequences. The risk of long-term unemployment is increasing, future incomes may be lower than could be expected, human capital losses will occur, poverty will be passed on from one generation to another in families, and the motivation to create a family will also be reduced, which in turn will have a negative impact on demographic development. And, of course, in a context of growing labour shortages, it is increasingly important that every young person can find an application on the labour market or complete his or her qualifications by studying further. The purpose of the Youth Guarantee support system is to reduce the number of young people not in employment or education. By amending the law, we are trying to solve two main problems in helping young people. Firstly, we do not currently have an overview of young people who are not working or studying or are not away from the labour market for any other valid reason. Secondly, there is no systematic approach in Estonia to help these young people get to school or work permanently. Although various career and employment services are offered to young people in Estonia by a wide variety of parties and attempts are made to reach young people through youth work measures, it is assumed that the young person himself will take the first step, for example, to the unemployment fund, the Rajasefija centre, the youth support centre. A large number of young people who are not in employment or training may not have sufficient motivation or other obstacles to do so. Youth employment has also been considered the most important employment issue in recent years at EU level. In 2013, the European Commission launched the Youth Guarantee initiative, the principles of which have been endorsed by Member States, including Estonia, committed to ensuring that young people can return to work or school within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving school or to further education or retraining. The proposed amendment will help Estonia to fulfil these tasks. The importance of helping young people is also that today's 20-year-old young person, who does not have a professional education or special work experience, who is passive, does not go to school or work, may also be in a similar situation ten years later. It may still belong to the risk group and, for a long time, to those who are discouraged, which makes it the guardian of the social protection system. International practice, for example in Sweden, Germany and Denmark, has also shown that early intervention is the most effective way of helping inactive people to work or return to school. And that's what this support system does. The system itself consists largely of two parts. To make the amendment proposed by the draft law easier to understand, I will explain that our aim is to introduce a comprehensive case-order approach to those young people who have interrupted education or are otherwise inactive. These young people should find a job. The first step is that we create the necessary basis by law for social workers in the local government to receive information from existing registers in the country about which local young people are potentially at risk. In this way, social workers can best implement this case management. In practice, this means that the local government has the right to inherit information from national registers about the status of a young person belonging to one or another specific group. You can check whether or not a young person is studying or studying from the Education Information System If there is no specific young person in any of these registers, it is clear to the local social worker that the state does not know what is happening to this young person. And right away, the case-manager social worker is going to deal with this case, trying to get in touch with this person and help him. If a person refuses to help, of course, no more will be offered. However, if he or she accepts help, the case manager will lead him or her to various local or national services to help a young person find a job or return to school. It's all about the situation. Since this is a data processing activity, a legal basis is needed for the use of this system. This digital tool must be able to be used through the local government's Social Services and Support Data Register, or STAR, and future law will also provide the basis for this. If this information is in the hands of a social worker, then, of course, the question is what is he going to do with it. We are now piloting this common case management model together with several local authorities to see if we can provide an effective service to activate young people on the basis of common principles. There is a problem in itself. Before we started developing this law and revising a specific IT solution, we carried out a pilot project in 2016 in two cities in Tartu and Võru. This work was done by hand: it was examined how many of the young people in both municipalities are not on any register. These numbers were 24% in Tartu and 19% in Võru. The situation was then discussed with local government employees and it became clear, on the one hand, that not all young people who are not in the picture from the point of view of the state are necessarily in need of help. Many of them live abroad, but the country may not know, but some social workers may have heard that someone has gone abroad. At the same time, however, the local government staff were beautifully surprised that this number was so large. However, we have gained confidence that this is a topic to continue working on and to look at how we can improve our data set, so that we can aim primarily at those who really need help. The main task of this work is, of course, not to ensure this IT solution. The aim is to help the local social worker to do better case management youth work. He just gets one extra tool. Of course, the start-up of this system will entail some costs. Firstly, a specific IT tool needs to be developed. Its costs are not very significant. We also need to support local authorities to develop and test case management. It will be funded by the European Social Fund until 2020, with a budget co-financing of around EUR 100000. By 2020, we have set ourselves the task of assessing the effectiveness of the new system on the basis of these first years: whether it has improved the results, whether the proportion of passive young people has decreased. If that is the case, then we can continue to discuss whether we should make the system permanent. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U85	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U86	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I think you must be familiar with Orwell's work, and the concept of 'big brother' is no stranger to you. Please convince me and my colleagues that this bill does not become orwellian in the Republic of Estonia and does not launch a so-called big brother's policy, and that the right of all young people to free self-realization and privacy is also protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U87	Thank you very much, that is an important question. This is certainly one of the most important issues that has been discussed in depth and for months at the level of the Government of the Republic in the context of the processing of this draft. This has been done with the Data Protection Inspectorate, the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice to seek a balance between values, one of which is helping those in need and the other is privacy. Of course, privacy is extremely important, a fundamental constitutional rule and its barrage must be clearly proportionate, justified and grounded. As a result of these discussions, we have significantly restricted data processing compared to the original version of the draft. Rives shall be kept to a minimum. We have narrowed the target group, we have decided that this data processing does not take place automatically, but that information must be obtained separately by the local social worker. And it can be done twice a year. In addition to respecting the principles of data protection, a social worker must also confirm that he is looking for certain information, not just for the sake of providing the young person with the necessary social services. In doing so, any person can give up help, as in other social services. Paragraph 1 (1) (8) of the draft provides for this, the wording of which is, in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, such that if a person aged 16 to 26 does not wish to have his data processed, the processing of the data by the person is stopped upon receipt of the corresponding application. At first contact with a young person, the local government unit asks for his or her consent to further processing of the data. If consent is not given, the further processing of the data will be terminated and the personal identification code will remain in the register until the person reaches the age of 27. That's to know that you shouldn't turn to him again. So we have, step by step, analysed the system precisely from the point of view that the integrity of someone's private life is not excessively violated. I also said in the Committee on Social Affairs that when assessing this privacy compromise from the point of view of the effectiveness of social work, many social workers feel that it is too restrictive. Some youth workers think that the first 'no' is never the final 'no' in their work, because the first answer is usually 'no'. After that, work with the young must only begin. But due to the framework of constitutionality and respect for privacy, we have stated in the draft that the first 'no' is the final 'no'. There's nothing more going on under this system. There's another fact. Data processing is a very broad concept. Data processing takes place almost all the time, including the processing of personal data. Much of this is happening completely undocumented. This data processing is, however, documented, based on the fact that it is possible to verify whether these data have been used in accordance with the procedures. Well, in practice, local social workers and other people, especially in smaller municipalities, know who might need one or another help. I think it's completely human. But the law partly regulates the processing of their sensitive personal data. The new system is certainly much more traceable, compliance with data protection principles is more robustly guaranteed by the system itself than in any other case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U88	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I have to admit, this list of data processing records you read out a little bit amaze me, even though I am familiar with the idea of a Youth Guarantee. But did you also address the priorities of data processing in your discussions? How, though, can you find out the most meaningful way each young person is doing so? If you start from the wrong end, you have to go through the whole sequence of data, and maybe you'll end up in the necessary register, where you'll find out the status of a young person. And our registers do not always reflect reality, including actual living in municipalities, etc. Were such problems addressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U90	Indeed, the population register is the biggest concern in this matter. After all, the local government receives information about a young person registered on its territory who may not actually live there. And what's he gonna do with that information? But this is a much wider problem, not only on this issue, but also on a large number of other national and local services. Despite lengthy discussions, no satisfactory solution has been found so far. Now for data processing. When we create this system, we have set the "alarm bell" to when a young person is inactive. Inactive broadly means that he doesn't study, he doesn't work and he's not looking for a job. In general, some other requests for registration have been made in order to prevent certain people from being contacted. In practice, we can assume that there is a particular reason for these people's inactivity, for example, they are in prison. If a person is in prison, he is not active, but there is a legitimate reason for this, as well as if someone is raising a child under the age of 1.5 or is in military service. In our eyes, the basic alarm state is when a person of a certain age does not learn or work or look for a job. In that case, we want to determine whether he has chosen such a life freely. If it is, it's perfectly legitimate and normal. A person may decide that for a year he will do nothing here in the Republic of Estonia. There is nothing deplorable about it in legal, moral, or otherwise. But we know that in many cases there is some kind of obstacle, it is a social or a healthy nature, or there is another problem. We know that the transition from formal education to the labour market is difficult for many young people. For example, while 97% of students move from primary school to the next level of education, in the end, about 10% of the total cohort will remain in primary education only. Most of them fall out of vocational school. Such a perfectly practical concern that a person, say, goes from Võru to a vocational education centre in Paide or, rather, in Särevere, studies there in some specialty, but in six months he decides not to bother. He interrupts his studies, but he doesn't go back to the Sorrow. Where is he, nobody knows. To prevent these types of cases and to support young people, we need to get this information as early as possible. In reply to Mr Ammas' concerns, I assure you that this does not mean that all these young people will automatically be approached. It's for a particular case manager to decide, it's for his professional judgment. If he knows that the family lives abroad, he won't be searching the records. A social worker must decide which young people may have a problem that requires the help of a local authority or another authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U91	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U92	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the purpose of this bill. You said in general terms that these young people must in no way be left alone in society with their concerns, and that is why it is necessary that information on their status be transferred to certain institutions and social services. Do you have a specific goal of how much percentage do you want these young people to study or work or to engage in other forms of activity through this law? And by what time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U93	Thank you. First of all, the purpose of the law is in the first full paragraph of page 3 of the explanatory memorandum, which is quite beautifully worded: 'The purpose of the law is to prevent any damage which may occur if social risks materialise and to mitigate the consequences of the damage suffered. To this end, local authorities will be given the opportunity to identify, on their own initiative, the possible need for assistance for young people aged 16 to 26 on the basis of information generated as a result of data processing. Finding the need for help will be followed by finding a solution, in cooperation with young people, to the problems that prevent young people from entering the labour market or returning to education. Proactive contact with potential people in need and providing support to them where necessary will support young people's self-sufficiency, education, employability and access to the labour market. ' The numerical objective is certainly an important issue. For our part, we discussed this, and many partners raised it. We will deal with this through a pilot project. Thanks to the pilot project already mentioned earlier, which we conducted manually in Tartu and Võru in 2016, we learned that 24% of inactive young people were in Tartu and 19% were in Võru. We do not know how many of them really need help and for how many this inactive status is a free choice, so there is no need to help them. The purpose of this law is, among other things, to find out how many of these young people need help. These statistics, by the way, have been called into question one way or the other. There have been different figures of the number of young people in Estonia who are called NEETs or inactive. Statistics have one number, one place comes from one figure, another place comes from another. It has been asked whether, for example, mothers at home with small children go down there or do not go down there. In this sense, it is important that we, through this support system, be able to systematically determine what the situation with NEET young people in Estonia really is and what help they need. The draft contains § 1 (5) which complements the existing Act with § 1601 and states that: 'The Ministry of Social Affairs shall analyse at the latest in 2020 the impact and effectiveness of the implementation of the regulation on the assessment of young aid needs laid down in § 151 of this Act. ' So we treat it as a pilot project, but we believe that consulting youth workers and social workers has given us this conviction that it is an effective solution that will help them in their work and as a result, the proportion of young people who are not active in Estonia will decrease. How much exactly, we don't know, is a perfectly honest answer. If, in two years' time, in 2020, it turns out that the number of NEETs has not decreased, then we have to admit that this has not been an effective measure, and probably then the government and the Riigikogu will decide that we will end this matter. I believe in its effectiveness and it deserves to be tried.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U94	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The contribution of social workers to their skills, knowledge, but also their willingness to deal with young people, is essential to meet the objective set out in this bill. To what extent are our social workers prepared for this task? I realized from this explanatory memorandum that five local authorities are initially joining the pilot project, i.e. some 6.4%. Do all these associated municipalities really appreciate their social worker skills, and what happens to them? Is it not advisable to involve more municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U96	Thank you. Indeed, we have concluded a preliminary agreement with five municipalities in order to develop and implement this common case management system with us. These are Tartu and Võru, who were already included in the pilot project, in addition to Saaremaa, Kohtla-Järve and Raasiku. We have chosen different municipalities, larger, smaller, rural, urban, one of the largest cities of Ida-Viru, in order to get a picture of more situations. We finance the participation of local authorities, in principle the work of case managers during this period. In some places it means employing a new person, in others it is possible to manage existing staff. From the outset, we have said that this opportunity is open to all other municipalities. Others will also have the opportunity to apply for money to participate in the project. These five are the minimum. We hope that the maximum number of municipalities will join, and we are ready to finance all this until 2020. But the assumption is that we work on common principles. It would then be possible to measure the performance of the project in a coherent manner. Now, from the social workers or youth workers, the people who should do this job. Case management work with these young people is essentially the kind of work for which social workers are trained. This is an important part of social work. We've been talking to these people, and we've been thinking that some of them wouldn't want to or wouldn't know how to do it, we haven't. Quite a number of municipalities have said that they do not have the resources to do so and that they have not been able to pay enough attention to these young people because they have had to deal with other problems a lot. If we create this "information tool" for them and help them at the same time with money so that they can pay more attention to this work, then this system could go quite widely across Estonia. I hope so, at least.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U97	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I congratulate you on the fact that as a minister, youth work has become close to your heart. If you were the Minister of Education now, you would also say that such an information system is very important, and this is the area of administration of the Minister of Education and Research. Today, as another minister, you will see it anyway. However, a moment ago, I quickly wondered if there would be a minister who would not want such an information system, and I found that every minister would have to put forward its own strong arguments in favour of it. My question, however, is this: would it not be possible for us to provide young people with real contact with work instead of creating these new registers? Are you sure that other ministers are not currently preparing the same information system on the same pretext for more young people to be included in the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U99	Thank you. First of all, you're right. The idea of creating such a tool came to me in 2014, i.e. when I was Minister of Education and Science. The context was the implementation of the Youth Guarantee programme, which is a joint programme between the two ministries: the labour market measures of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the youth work measures of the Ministry of Education. At that time, due to time constraints, we did not get very far in developing it, but the idea really came from there. The exposure of young people to work is certainly very important, and this service is also provided. We have also taken joint steps to simplify it. We have simplified the labour code We have set up a separate measure in the unemployment fund for employers to support short-term work of minors, to compensate for these costs. It already works by motivating employers to recruit more minors. We're still supporting the chess and beyond, if I'm not mistaken. I'm sure it's all right. And I think that one of the outputs of casework could be that young people who have learning problems, achieving formal education, are looking for suitable solutions, one of which could be going to work. I mean, I don't see any problem here. Is the same tool used elsewhere? Not that I know of. We have discussed this with various IT managers because the development of this system requires that these information systems that I mentioned end up in X-Road so that the information runs into STAR. So we've been in close contact with them. One more important point: we are not creating a new register. The public has, in the meantime, stated that we are creating a new 'inactive youth register'. We're not creating a new register. As a result of the need-based aggregation of existing registration data, we can simply provide periodic information to social workers so that they can do their job better with it. It's not a new register. And it's not about information about a person that's gonna be up there somewhere for the rest of his life, that when he was 18, he was passive and he was urged.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U100	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This draft has been criticised on several occasions, as you yourself pointed out, by the Data Protection Inspectorate, the Chancellor of Justice and the Minister of Justice. Reference is made to § 26 of the Constitution. You said in answer to the first question that you have narrowed down the target group of the draft. Could you give me an overview of how you narrowed it down anyway? What do you mean, there's been a siege? There is another question. You said that a person can make a statement that he doesn't want his data processed. But this statement can only be made afterwards. How would this 16- or 18-year-old know that someone is going to process his data? The application can only be made after the social worker has come knocking at the door.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U102	Thank you. I will not be able to find all these "scope" or limitations of scope during the draft procedure. I am happy to answer this question in writing. But I've already formulated a few things. As a matter of fact, this is a limitation of the volume of data processing. This does not automatically apply to all local governments; this procedure is needs-based. The local government must express an exclusive desire to obtain certain information. There must be confirmation that, based on this data, young people, if they so wish, are provided with the services they need, rather than simply looking into the data in order to obtain interesting information about their inhabitants. To this end, we have specified the consent procedure. One possibility is that the application can also be submitted proactively. Well, in practice, of course, who's gonna present it? If I now send out a press release that Riigikogu passed a law that allows young people's data to be processed, young people aged 16 to 26 will also go to the parish house to write applications? I don't understand. But there's a chance. In practice, of course, we see it as it is written here. When making contact with a person for the first time, a local government employee asks the person to consent to further processing of the data. The processing of data has been limited to the fact that the records show that a person may have a problem, and the local government employee goes and asks if he or she wants help. If he says no, the processing of the data will be stopped and no further assistance will be provided. There was also a debate on the subject of just this nuance of what this statement must be. You don't have to make a written statement. If a person says he doesn't want any more help, his data will no longer be processed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U103	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U104	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I congratulate you on your natural investigator's actions in investigating the black box that happens to people over the course of ten years. I ask, however, what size this target group, aged 16 to 26, is. I am thinking of those who do not have the usual active community, who are at home and who are unable to get through youth work. How big could this company be? Maybe they're still working, but they're working abroad, like Australia. Is that an option?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U105	Thank you. From the last to the end: as I noted, certainly some of the people entering this sample or this system are not in fact permanently present in the country. This was confirmed by our pilot project in Tartu and Võru. Social workers say they know how many families don't live here. This is certainly one of the aims of the pilot project: it is important to learn how many people are in the Estonian population register, but actually live abroad. But, as I said, those people whose passiveness is their free choice are not in need of help under the Social Welfare Act. And we're not gonna deal with them. Nobody's gonna force them to go to school or work or anything. We provide support for those who want it. Now, how many of these people are there? The total number of residents in Estonia as of 1 January 2016 was 161000. How many of them are inactive? As I said, firstly, the statistics vary from age group to age group, secondly, the bases for the compilation of statistics are slightly different, so I would rather not talk about these numbers here. But there are tens of thousands of them. There is another category that can be considered to be discouraged. They're a couple of thousand. So the problem itself is undoubtedly there. How many specific young people need this type of social assistance are involved in case management? How many exactly are there? We don't know, it's an honest answer. We don't know, we don't know the local authorities, we don't have an overview of it. And one of the pilot projects is to learn that too. When we look at European statistics, we stand out for the rather high proportion of NEETs. A certain part of this can be explained by our parental benefit system and a few other things, but in some respects we do not have a very clear understanding of why this is the case. To some extent, the reason may be that some young people are shown to be inactive, but in fact they, for example, live-learning-working in Finland. But we can't say that for sure because there is no proof of that. So this is one important objective of the pilot project: statistics must be put in order so that we can understand more precisely how many of these people are and what kind of help they need.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U106	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The Estonian Cities Association does not support this bill. One reason is that this places a very high additional burden on local authorities and also leads to the hiring of additional labour, either in the form of youth workers or social workers. I am of the opinion that these young people really need to be dealt with. The explanatory memorandum states that this draft does not impose additional obligations on local governments, but gives them the right to use the emerging tool. Aren't you afraid that this right can often be missed in very many municipalities? In that case, the plan will simply remain on paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U108	Thank you. Indeed, this is not a new obligation. We are precisely creating a tool that will help local authorities to fulfil an already existing task. And for that to be possible, we also offer state funding to participate in the pilot project. If, by the end of this pilot project, by 2020, there is a conviction that this system will be effective and should be implemented throughout Estonia, then this certainly needs to be discussed. Then we are talking about the new tasks of the local government, we are talking about the additional funding that should accompany it if it is a new task, not the clarification of the existing task. But there is no reason for this debate today, because joining the project is voluntary. Those who join will also receive financial support from the state. As has been said, five municipalities have agreed to participate. At the same time, we voluntarily allow everyone else to join, and then we will also support them with money. We have already received signals that many more municipalities would be ready to join the system. How many of them will come in the end, I cannot say, but I hope that local authorities will take this opportunity actively.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U109	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In one response, you mentioned that the idea of such a pilot project, as well as this draft, was born when you were at the previous ministerial office in the Ministry of Education. Is this an entirely original idea, or have such projects been launched in other countries as well? Spain, for example, is known for its high levels of youth unemployment and maybe also of passiveness, much greater than in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U111	In many countries, there really is a system that obliges local authorities to deal with inactive young people. The systems through which this support is provided are different. Our advantage, which cannot be used by Spain, Germany and many other countries, is a nationwide e-state infrastructure that allows us to obtain the necessary data from existing registers. When compiling data from different registers, the services provided by the state and the municipality can be improved. In many lands, this is simply not an opportunity. For example, I have studied the system in Hamburg City. There are separate youth activity centres and, if I remember correctly, there is a separate sub-unit of the unemployment fund in our sense, which deals specifically with young people. Different professionals for young people, different services are concentrated in one place. A young person can go there and maybe a complex solution will be found to all his problems in one place. We are trying to achieve a solution 'the other way around': we are not creating any special centre for young people where they can be helped. We have the information we need to do this more effectively by using the existing e-state. Local authorities can provide the necessary individual assistance in this way. So in very many countries, different institutions have an obligation to deal with inactive young people. The solution depends on the country. Various measures are being implemented, and this is very important! It's about complexity. The problems of young people are usually multifaceted. But to be able to get information about young people's inactivity from different registers across the country, as far as I know, there are no other countries. But I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U112	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I fully agree that young people must continue to study and be directed to work. It's a very sensible thing to do. However, it is relatively pointless to extract young people who are not engaged in meaningful activities through a local government unit without further action; this does not lead to a goal. We now come to a debate as to whether this bill is dealing with an already existing task for the local government or whether it is a new obligation. I appreciate that this actually adds additional tasks to the municipal social workers. It also turns out that you are providing state support to five municipalities involved in a pilot project. If it turns out that this work is necessary, do local authorities also have additional resources, more social workers? So how do we deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U114	Thank you. Indeed, the optimist scenario is that in 2020 we will be able to take stock and assess whether the use of this tool and, on a uniform basis, the case solution are an effective way to reduce the passiveness of young people. If that is the case, I think it is quite appropriate to discuss whether the system should become national. If it did, it would certainly mean additional work for the local government. But it will be clear in the debate whether we will achieve the necessary consensus to take this decision. After all, accepting it requires extra money. If necessary, this additional money must be found in order to implement the system. This is not a question at this stage. We are talking about a pilot project in which participation is voluntary for municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U115	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I'm interested in your intention to supplement the law by § 1601. It's at the end of page two of the bill. I read it and I wonder. I've never seen such a construction before. The title of the paragraph is 'Ex-post evaluation of the regulation of paragraph 151'. And text: 'The Ministry of Social Affairs shall, no later than 2020, analyse the impact and effectiveness of the implementation of the regulation on the assessment of young aid needs laid down in § 151 of this Act. " There are a number of questions. Doesn't the effect and effectiveness of laws usually be assessed? And where do we get from the technical point of view when we start to refer to this kind of evaluation in the law? I really meet it for the first time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U117	But it's not a first. It's rare, but it's not a first. According to memory, for example, the Alcohol Excise Act contains § 8512 or 8513, which says that by March 2018 at the latest the Government of the Republic will present an analysis of how excise decisions have affected consumption and other aspects of the economy. This specific provision was born in a compromise with different authorities and it is precisely privacy that has been taken into account. The authorities have asked about the justification of privacy breaches: are we sure that an approach in this way is effective? As I have said, research into the experiences of different countries and the positions of our competent specialists have met with young people and social workers, we have come to the conclusion that this is a reasonable way of solving this problem. But, of course, we do not know how much specifically, as a result of these changes, the number of passive young people will decrease. As a result, the parties have said that they want to see, by 2020 at the latest, an impact analysis on whether this is the most effective way to reduce the passiveness of young people. What else can I say?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U118	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U119	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I would still like your assessment of who are the young people who do not work and are not on account of being unemployed, but do not need help. Well, it's been said that half the defendants are unemployed, but these young people, I understand, are not unemployed. So are they pocket thieves who haven't been caught yet? It's also hard to believe. Or are they the children of rich people who live as a ranch of their papa's treasure and sit in their ebony tower because of it? Who could this company be, who doesn't work, who isn't on account of being unemployed, but still doesn't need help?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U120	It's a diverse contingent, with few of the people you mentioned. For example, for some young people with special needs, there may be a situation that there is no school in her county town where she can continue to study. And since he can't use an alternative way of learning or has social problems in his family, he's becoming inactive. That's one way. There are also situations, as I mentioned earlier, that a young person goes from his/her home to another county vocational school, but there he/she breaks off his/her studies for whatever reason. Quite a lot of it does and does it pretty quickly and get into a bad path one way or the other, and parents may not know it is. In short, situations where young people may need systemic help vary. Some of these young people break the law and get into law enforcement, but many of them don't. The unemployment fund's unemployment account means an activity for a person seeking a job. The unemployment fund has studied the matter and it has become apparent that most young people do not turn to the unemployment fund, even if they do not have a job and they want a job. But they think they have nothing to gain from the unemployment fund. They think that those people who have remained unemployed are going to the unemployment fund who have been working and then become unemployed, but since they have never worked, they have nothing to gain from the unemployment fund. That's not true. There are specific measures for young people and also for people who have been unemployed for a long time. Young people may not be aware of these measures. This is also the help that a specific case order can provide: you can guide a young person and direct him to an unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U121	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll come back to my last question. I really appreciate you bringing alcohol duty to my attention. I should have known that myself. At the same time, I have a feeling that if such a provision is in it, it is a provision to save one party's face. I do not mind that there is such an ex-post evaluation and analysis in the context of today's draft, but I do not understand how such a thing enriches the texts of our laws. This may not be the best way. Do you agree with me that this is a new solution to make political compromises in your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U123	Oh, it's not just in our government. I have had the honour of being part of several governments and this is not a new solution. Luckily, it's not overwhelming, but it's not new either. After all, there have been such sentences in the draft laws that the Riigikogu will adopt such a law and such a law by 2020 at the latest. The legislator wants to adopt a law that says that the next formation will adopt such a law and such a law by that date. Fortunately, these wording proposals have not gone beyond second reading, but such proposals have been made. However, the purpose of this provision is to place the law on the ministry as a governmental authority, as an obligation for the executive authority to provide an analysis of the effectiveness of a specific change. The legislator shall assess whether or not it wishes to receive such an analysis from the representative of the executive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U124	Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U125	Thank you. If a social worker starts tracking and finds a young person in whom he or she feels or has become aware that this young person is living a perfectly normal life, that he or she goes somewhere to work on construction, that he or she receives unpaid taxes and that he or she has not been paid in the register, or that he or she is working in Finland from time to time when the money runs out but is not formally paid, what does a social worker have to do with this information? What does the law say now? How did you think that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U126	Thank you. This law does not change in any way the rights and obligations of social workers when dealing with such cases. How these things are resolved in practice, I am not the competent person to answer. The general rule is that citizens have an obligation to report when they find out about an offence. I have to admit my ignorance in this respect, I do not know exactly how social workers behave in such cases. This question does not only concern young people who are not active, but very many other so-called social workers' customers. There are certainly more competent respondents to this question than I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U127	Minister, there are no further questions for you right now. Helmen Kütt, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U128	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu met as early as 18 December 2017 to discuss the preparation for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the Tax Administration Act. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, Juhan Kinks, Head Specialist of the Employment Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Susanna Jurs, legal adviser, provided detailed explanations and answers to questions. Just as thoroughly as the Minister of Health and Labour explained here today, he did in the Committee on Social Affairs. I must say that all the questions that were put in the Committee on Social Affairs, and which I wanted to introduce to you, were also presented here today in this Chamber, at least those that we have in the record. There were even more questions here than the members of the Social Affairs Committee asked in their sitting. Both the Minister and the Legal Adviser and the Chief Specialist of the Employment Department provided answers to the Commission. The Social Affairs Committee took the following procedural decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 17 January. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 31 January 2018 at 5.15 p.m. It was decided to appoint the chairman of the committee, the speaker, Helmen Kütt, before you. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U129	The round of questions will be opened by Tiina Kangro. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U130	Thank you. Good Helmen! The Minister remained a little laconical on the last question. Can you answer that? After all, you have a wealth of experience in working and managing the social services of local governments. The Minister replied that he did not know how the launch of this register would affect the responsibility of social workers to report all kinds of cases as responsible citizens. Can you supplement his answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U131	Thank you. Since I am a Commission waitress, I say in the interest of the verbatim report that this question did not arise in the Commission. But I'm expanding this response from personal experience. I can say that if a social worker contacts a young person and the interview reveals that he or she is working black or goes to work in Finland without formalising it, the first thing a social worker does is that he or she will definitely provide information about what this means for the young person. He or she is uninsured by the health insurance fund and only the first aid to the accident is compensated. Another thing is that young people do not think much about pensions, but a social worker should also enlighten them in this area. Now what? What opportunities do social workers offer or recommend? Not only does a social worker do youth work in the municipality. There are both Pathfinder and Youth Support Centres. It is also important to share such information in order to obtain a first contact. Indeed, a young person can refuse help, and this will put an end to the social worker's mandate. There is no point in helping anyone, and it cannot be done, but information about the opportunities offered could still be provided. One of the things that I am sure is in the air is that already when the Social Affairs Committee discussed this draft, you believe it or not, good colleagues called me, but several parents called me. They're worried about the young people who live at home, do nothing, just spend their day out walking around with their friends. They don't learn. They've dropped out of school in the 6th-7th grade. And the parents are actually very worried. So it is, to some extent, early prevention so that these young people can get some help. The hope that they will receive this assistance is, in any case, high, at least in the five municipalities that have joined the programme. It is not in the explanatory memorandum, but for the sake of the verbatim report, these five municipalities have 23000 young people aged 16 to 26, and it is only 6.4% of 161386. And five out of 79 municipalities, of course, are a very small percentage. At the same time, everyone else has a chance to join, and I think it is better to do something than do nothing at all. But you can't help anyone by force. And this is not only the case for young people, it is a fundamental right for all people. I don't know if my answer is enough. But I can't imagine what a social worker will do on the ground in dealing with the case and everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U132	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Based on your own experience and knowledge in this area, do you think that this bill will increase the burden on social and youth workers? And how well are you prepared to find a suitable place for a young person who needs help, who agrees and whose parents agree? How does it come to know whether he should be offered a suitable job or whether it could be a school? In my opinion, the purpose of this bill is precisely to find a suitable place for each young person. Does this increase the workload for officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U134	Thank you for your question. This will undoubtedly increase the workload, but very many municipalities have employed child protection workers and youth workers in addition to the administrative reform. If this problem is not addressed now, it will be a major problem on the table of social workers in three, four or five years' time. For a particular young person, however, the situation can be very tragic. In the Commission, we have a question of funding for greater workload. It is clear that the Ministry of Social Affairs will allocate additional money to the municipalities involved in the pilot project and to everyone else who wants to join.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U135	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. It would, but we can ask the waitresses up to two oral questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U136	But I promise, Urve, I'll answer your question later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U137	Urve Tiidus is also able to shape his question during the negotiations. I will open negotiations on the general principles of this bill. First, please, on behalf of the Group of the Tarmo Kruusimäe Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U138	Dear Chairman! Good ambassadors! 'Educately filthy and rotted from the inside of the soul, I enter the life of the noisy, from the working family. ' This is Merle Jäägri's poem since I was a NEET young man. Really, I missed my education in the final grade of high school. The work was complicated too, because I was literally cursed. I was working, of course, but it wasn't my dream job from there, it's just a nickname. My dream job and my employer are sitting here. Unformally, I was a traveler of the Tourist band. So there is a difference between what young people want to do and what opportunities they have. If I hadn't been a NEET girl, I might have been someone else today and not here. I'm glad I had a very difficult childhood. But I'm coming to today's bill. Yes, the Estonian Youth Work Centre, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, and in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, started the NEET Youth Project, which first required certain data. This data is available today, and here was the question of how young people know that their data is being processed. Yes, not knowing the law does not reduce responsibility, and parents are responsible for the future of their children. I think if I do a statement here that, parents, inform your 16-year-old children to let them know if they don't want their data to be cross-worked, then this project has failed. Five local governments are still awfully few. I think there are actually many of these measures. I'm only talking about my own personal experience, but I think maybe mistakenly that youth work is the key word. I have met youth workers who have better contact with young people than social workers. As the minister said, nor is the first 'no' the final 'no'. That is where the dialogue begins, and all this information comes out very easily. But my question is, what are we gonna do with that? What do we offer them? I thought the day of work shadows was a good idea, but does the content of this profession make sense to a young person when he's one day behind an adult? If we spend five days, or a working week, on this, maybe Thursday morning, the young person will start sharing something. The first two days are, "Jou! I'm here, cruelly boring, totally! There's nothing to share! ', but there's already an interest on Thursday. But we need money for that. Before, we liked to pour all the money into concrete. Now the men with long legs have said that IT is the solution. Yes, information is extremely important and we are very pleased when we pour a good pile of money into the information, hoping that there will be a solution. No! Here comes only knowledge! A colleague asked who these young people are, what these young people are doing. They're learning! This is lifelong learning, this is a so-called university of life, as we say laughing here. Maybe a young person thinks it's normal for him to change jobs five times in one year. A young person is looking for himself. In my day, however, he was said to be a work repulsive. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U139	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U140	Thanks! In my day, they said, "Hey, man, why don't you stay at work?" So you had to go to work. In society, attitudes have changed. Now we ask what this young man does. And if he says I want to learn to be a jeweler in Knee, for example, but if Põlva can't learn to be a jeweler, that's enough. We're gonna take note of that information and write down a S.T.A.T.A.R. tick. He wants to learn to be a jeweler, but there's no way in the local government. We've been working on his data, we've taken note of the information, but there's no solution if that's not the case. Maybe send him to cooking school? More real work should be introduced to young people, and with this in mind, it is really good that we have taken some steps in legislation. However, money is often needed for companies to hire and pay young people. Every person in the Republic of Estonia has the right to be paid for the work done. We cannot mock young people and view them as merely those in need. I always feel strange about the campaign 'Let's do it! '. There's a faction of project managers who get the money and invite others up: Come on, come on, let's do it! I'm telling you to do it yourself. Why don't you do something and make yourself some money? The first time it was quite incredible: people with such high pay figured that we were bringing trash together somewhere, but none of them thought that the collected trash had to be taken somewhere. Too specialized people! They realized it was necessary to pick up the garbage, but with a peasant's mansion, even if a janitor could have pointed out for half the wage that it had to be stored somewhere. I hope this bill will open a wider discussion. Why pour money into an existing system where the data may not be available? Every parent may say that he does not want the data of his child to be used. This is the case with the five projects launched in local governments, like half an egg. We know that old saying, better half an egg than an empty shell. I don't even know which one we got in front of us right now. I would've waited for something that would totally get in the way. I do understand Evgeni. Before he was Minister of Education and Science and was involved in youth work, now it's a bill. If he's the Secretary of Defense tomorrow, he's gonna say, "Youngs away from time service are a big problem for our country. I propose a new information system to help us find out why young boys and girls are staying out of military service. In accordance with the Constitution, they have a duty to attend military service and I propose that this information system be established. We're getting data that's so important. ' We have the data. You just have to get them out of the kids during the conversation. And then we're gonna take the kids straight to the real job! Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U141	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Monika Haukanõm speaks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U142	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We have been discussing NEETs very passionately for over an hour. It seems to me that the main focus or key question of this draft is whether the interference with privacy and its outcome are proportionate and the methods of solving the problem are appropriate. Does the proposed solution, which is put before us, really help to solve this problem? I do not doubt for a moment that getting young people to study or go to work is an important goal. The fact that youth unemployment is almost twice as high as that of older people is certainly an alarm clock. But with this planned system, it is crucial that young people should remain able to prohibit the processing of their data. I am concerned about the target group of 16 to 18-year-olds who, according to the General Part of the Civil Code Act, are minors with limited capacity. If a 16- or 17-year-old says no, I don't want your help, don't come again, but only after you have asked her parents, is it not an empty promise? But young people must also have the opportunity to give up aid. And the security of the processing of personal data must be guaranteed. Today it is not very much to talk about how much the planned change brings additional tasks to the social workers of the municipality and how much it requires money. Young people need to be further educated and directed to work, as I have already said, but this can be done with meaningful local government activities. Exploring the names of unoccupied young people will not lead anywhere without further action. What are the further activities that a local social worker should carry out, this does not come out of the draft. I agree with 100% of the Chancellor of Justice's opinion that the additional money that we are channeling this bill to social workers to do their work could instead be directed towards prevention. It would be more useful and more purposeful. It could encourage entry and retention in educational institutions, launch new specializations and offer flexible learning and practice opportunities, more effective and really effective career guidance, allow flexible and simple employment relationships, etc. If the goal is simply to inform young people about the Pathfinder, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and other services, the social worker can recommend that you go there, then you can get it, there are other channels, even a blind post. They are much less damaging to privacy than the profiling of the persons foreseen in the draft, and it would be less financially burdensome for the state. That was the position of the Chancellor of Justice. The justification for intervening in private life in the draft before us is a little artificial. Today's methods make it possible to use more sensible solutions. We do not know whether the proposed solution is working or not, and this is all the more doubtful about shaping such a law that violates the Constitution. First we launch a pilot project in five municipalities, then we analyse, evaluate the results, and if it does not work, we delete this provision from this law. Wouldn't it be more reasonable to carry out a pilot project in these five municipalities to see if it works and, if it does, to enter new rules into the law? It seems to me that the approach 'try and see and then react' is not appropriate at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U143	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U144	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill has been initiated by the Ministry of Social Affairs, but it has been initiated since the pilot project in Tartu and Võru was carried out in 2016. These municipalities were willing to experiment and they saw the benefits. A pilot project is now being carried out in five municipalities. Among these five are Võru and Tartu. They want to do this job. So we are giving five local authorities the opportunity to do precisely preventive work. Because if we don't deal with young people now, then we'll deal with the consequences. The Social Democratic Party will certainly support this bill. In order to carry out this pilot project and to ensure data protection, it is necessary to provide for it in law. It was also a unanimous proposal from the Data Protection Inspectorate, the Chancellor of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs. That's why this bill is on our desks. At the same time, we are waiting by 31 January for amendments that will certainly enrich and improve the draft. As Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I can certainly promise that if we in the committee are to prepare a draft for second reading, we will invite the social workers of the municipalities from Tartu and Võru to share their experiences. Of course, we also ask them why they decided to take part in the pilot project. This is an opportunity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U145	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 558. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 31 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U146	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 557 on the Accession of ships to the International Convention for the Control and Handling of Ballast Water and its sediments presented by the Government of the Republic. I'd like the Secretary of the Environment, Siim Kisler, to wait for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U147	Honourable manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The International Convention for the Control and Handling of Ballast Waters and their Sludges, 2004 entered into force on 8 September 2017, i.e. quite recently. We consider it appropriate to accede to this Convention in order to limit the spread of alien species in the ballast waters of ships. The spread of alien species is one of the five main threats to the diversity of nature. In the Baltic Sea region, an alien species is a plant or animal which has been introduced here because of human activity in another marine region. However, there may also be different species in different parts of the Baltic Sea. Thus, the sea area of Estonia may also be threatened by species that have adapted to the sea area of another Baltic Sea country. Alien species become dangerous when they threaten the functioning of the local natural ecosystem, for example by destroying existing habitats or species with their life activities. According to the Baltic Sea Status Report, there are 140 alien species in our sea. They've come here mostly with ballast water from ships. In this context, the spread of 14 new alien species in the Baltic Sea region was detected in 2011/2016. This Convention lays down real requirements for vessels to operate ballast water in such a way that animals and plants taken with ballast water do not enter the marine environment at the port of destination or on their way to port. According to the ship's register, there are currently only 26 ships using ballast water, but ships from other countries also visit Estonian ports. By 2024 at the latest, all ships using ballast water will have to start handling pumpable ballast water. Therefore, ballast waters without treatment or treatment and with alien species may not be released into the sea. At the same time, the Convention allows for exemptions. For example, if ships only sail between Tallinn and Helsinki or Paldiski Lõunaport and the harbour of Kappelskär, they do not have to handle ballast water. An exemption can be granted to a ship for a period not exceeding five years if the environmental conditions in the ports between which the ship operates are similar and no factors contributing to the spread of alien species have been identified in the risk assessment. In addition, there are requirements for ports where ballast tanks are repaired or cleaned. According to the port register, we do not currently have any such ports. However, Estonia has long-standing traditions in shipbuilding and repair, and we know that at least one or two ports have the potential to provide services related to cleaning and repairing ballast tanks. The draft Act on ratification of the Convention has been made in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Association of Estonian Shipowners and the Union of Estonian Ports. In summary, accession to the Convention is a prerequisite for further effective limitation of the spread of alien species. This is known to be the most effective way to prevent the addition of new alien species in the Estonian sea area. Options for removing or otherwise controlling alien species from the sea as well as not available, therefore the focus should be on the implementation of preventive and preventive measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U148	The first question to the minister is put by Peeter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U149	Good manager! Good minister! When some aliens, alien species come, it doesn't matter if they come with a cargo ship, a submarine, or a warship's ballast water. I ask you why this convention does not apply to warships and submarines. Does the Estonian Government intend to propose to supplement this with such a point? And the aliens don't care where they come in the tank.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U150	Indeed, this does not apply to existing warships and ships operating in the administrative capacity of the State. The explanation is that this is not reasonable and feasible without compromising the ability of these ships to perform the functions assigned to them. I myself was not involved in the negotiations on this convention, so unfortunately I do not know how such a result was achieved. Could Estonia initiate a change in the convention? We're not a member yet. If we have joined and handed over the ratification letters, we can discuss, for example, in the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu whether we should make such a proposal. However, I do not think that this is a problem for warships, for example. The use of ballast water is not as widespread there as for tankers, for example. I believe that, in the case of merchant ships and tankers, this issue is more topical and more important than in the case of warships.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U151	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum states that as of 2017, no Estonian port has the capacity to handle ballast water. Do you have an opinion or a position, one of the ports ready to develop it? I mean, it's kind of an economic opportunity. Or do we have no such interest at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U153	Thank you. This Convention does not oblige all ports to accept ballasts. Nor does it directly oblige a State which is a party to the Convention to designate such ports for itself. In theory, if there is such a possibility in the port of one of our neighbouring countries, our ships can use it. It's just a matter of sediment. Cleaning equipment must be on the ship itself, but next thing you know, it must get rid of the sediments. The question is whether our ports see the possibility of doing business here and whether it makes sense to them from a business point of view. It is not known at the moment that some of the Estonian ports would be very excited about creating such an opportunity immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U154	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U155	Good manager! Mr. Minister! Have you thought that, for example, in the Gulf of Tallinn and in the surrounding bays, the flatfish will begin to die out? The reason is that an alien from Asov and the Black Sea with ballast water, on a roundhead, devours the eggs of a flatfish. Fishermen must switch from flatfish to flatfish and have already gone fishing for round mud. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U156	I don't think that's good. I've been thinking about the mudula, if you answer the question directly. But, as I have already said, it is extremely difficult to effectively limit the spread of an alien species already present in our waters. Preventive measures are considerably more effective. The requirement for the treatment and treatment of ballast water is a preventive measure. As far as I am concerned, we do not have a very good chance of preventing and eliminating the spread of alien species already in our marine waters.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U157	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Let me ask you a more specific question. We do not have ports that process these ballast waters, and we certainly do not like alien species very much, but the question is that Estonia will have some sort of control obligation when it comes to this convention. Are you guys gonna open this up a little bit? Here is the draft decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, which complements the procedures for inspection of ships carrying a foreign flag.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U159	Yes, control of the management of ballast water, if it enters into force as a law at the decision of the Riigikogu, the Environmental Inspectorate will do so. This naturally means additional activities and an estimated cost of EUR 30000 per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U160	Honourable Minister, there are no further questions for you. The presentation of the Steering Committee is made by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was launched by the Government of the Republic on 4 December 2017 and discussed by the Committee on the Environment at one meeting on 8 January 2018. At the meeting of the Commission, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Chief Specialist of the Marine Environment Department, presented the draft and answered the questions of the members of the Commission. At the same meeting, the Commission proposed that the draft be sent to first reading and that the deadline for amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 31 January 2018. I will give a brief overview of what happened in the Committee on the Environment, but before that, I congratulate my fellow Members Krista Aru and Urve Tiidu, who have already opened a discussion here with their very relevant questions. These exact same issues were also discussed in the Committee on the Environment. The Commission was also interested in why it has taken nearly 14 years to come into force from the adoption of the Convention. Harry Liiv, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, replied that the Convention in the Baltic Sea region was not addressed until 2010, when the countries that joined the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment in the Baltic Sea region considered it important. In addition, the Convention entered into force only in September 2017. This is also due to the fact that the Convention entered into force when a sufficient volume of the world's merchant fleet had been met, known to have been reached in 2017. The members of the committee were interested in how it will be monitored and who will implement this convention in real life here in Estonia. We received an answer from the Environmental Inspectorate. In addition, a good colleague named Meelis Mälberg asked whether our eastern neighbour, Russia, had joined the convention, as ships on the Panama route pass Estonia. Kaspar Anderson, Head Specialist of the Ministry of the Environment, confirmed that both Russia and Panama have acceded to the relevant Convention. Mr Ernits, a good colleague, raised the same question that he also asked about today in this large hall, concerning warships. The Commission also noted that any additional proposals would be possible once Estonia had joined the Convention. And why not also review the fleet list to which this convention will apply? Of course, there are the most large-scale tankers. This international convention has actually emerged from the problem of oil tankers. In addition, Mr Terje Trei asked who has not joined the convention, or is there a country that has not yet joined it? It was said that besides Estonia, Lithuania is preparing to join; all the rest of the Baltic Sea countries have already joined. Thus, the Committee on the Environment had a debate similar to that of a large hall. Here, good colleagues who are environmentally aware and very well informed about environmental issues, not only in Estonia but also in the world, really need to be commended and want to have a say and a say. I will also briefly mention the four decisions taken by the Commission. Rainer Vakra, member of the Committee on the Environment, was appointed rapporteur for the draft. A consensual proposal was made to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 17 January 2018, which is today, and it was also proposed to close the first reading of the draft. As I have already said, it was decided to set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 31 January 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U162	Krista Aru, your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission also discuss whether joining this convention would guarantee, secure or give any advantage to ships flying the flag of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U164	Thank you. This was discussed in the Commission. As I referred to in my first paragraph, it has actually been 14 years since the adoption of this Convention entered into force. Initially, Estonian shipmen felt that this would be more trouble than good. In fact, if Estonia has joined this convention, it is possible to release our own ships from it, but as a country and as companies, the respective plus points have been obtained. Rather, the question arose that Estonian navigators might face difficulties in competition with shipping companies on the northern shore, for example, who can say that we have joined the convention, even though they have been exempted. The Estonian side has not been able to say that they have joined. It was in fact also in the interests of Estonian companies to be equally, say, in environmentally positive waters along with other entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U165	No further questions. Thank you, dear waitress. The general policy debate will be opened by Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U166	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, If we were talking about migrants here today, there would be a lot more people in the hall and the temperature would be much higher. Today, however, we are actually talking about migrants in connection with the ratification of this convention. These migrants do not come from hiding places built into cars, but they legally come from ships with ballast water, no matter where the sea of the world comes from. So far, there is no such convention as to deal with the movement of migrants and their excessive arrival in one country or another. This convention, I say in advance, is a very good convention. In order not to talk long, it is actually known that there are more than 4500 possible migratory species that could move and move at any moment, even now, in the ballast waters of ships. The question is where they are going and how they will be able to establish themselves in a new place where this ballast water will be released. There's a lot of these species. The first, known to be sand picket boxes, arrived for us as early as 11.12. In the 19th century. Most are unknown to us, but most are species that live at the bottom of the sea. It can be said that neither their lives nor how many of them really exist are much known. I'll only introduce you to a couple or three of those whose name has never sounded in this hall. First, remember Virginia's Trichinella! From 1980 in Europe, from 1985 in the Baltic Sea, from 1995 in the north of the Gulf of Riga. What's he doing? This same Virginia worm digs deeper and more actively than the local Trichinella and pushes the local out. Remember that story about a raccoon coming in and pushing the badger out? Since it digs deeper, it is harder for local fish to fall into food. Second, North American bartender cancer. Enduring the well-polluted sea, breeding heavily, rejecting local flea crayons. Just like a raccoon used to be a badger. You remember that little song. Besides, he's got a shady way of life and fish can't get access. Third, remember the Chinese woolly crab! just live in the sea near South China and Korea, or where the Olympic Games take place. Europe for the first time in 1912, Germany. Explores routes to river banks, promotes erosion and collapses, damages fishing gear and eats fish caught in nets. The last one I would like to talk about is the round mule, which has fallen into the Baltic Sea and the Great Lakes of North America from the Caspian Sea, the Azov Sea, the Aral Sea and the Marmara Sea. Gdansk Bay 1990, Pärnu Bay 1992. Who are the fishermen and live here on the north coast knows that he has actually eaten a flat in the Gulf of Tallinn and in the Gulf of Lahepere in all the bays. Tarmo Kõuts, a good colleague and former member of the Riigikogu, is fishing, but he has recently caught these round muds (which, by the way, are very delicious), because the flat is very few. He's not only a threat to the flounder, he's a threat to other fish. There's a fish like that. Mudil, once again, eats her eggs and competes for spawning grounds and so on. In fact, it's the kind of raccoon that's come out here to eat our badger again. So I support this convention and I suggest you do it too. Although it has taken a long time to ratify it has gone over stones and stumps, it is a good and beneficial thing. Warships could also be brought to the picture by Estonia. Water is water, no matter where he's in the tank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U167	There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 557. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 31 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U168	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training and counselling mission in Afghanistan'. I call Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige as a waitress for the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will bring before you a draft decision of the Riigikogu to increase the mandate of our Estonian soldiers fighting in Afghanistan, taking into account the requests made by NATO, the United States and Great Britain. In the case of Britain, the British Minister for Defence has made a concrete proposal to this end that we increase our participation in the Afghanistan mission by 40 men. We're talking about a team. This contribution strengthens Estonia's political role in NATO and certainly also among our strategic allies, the United States and Great Britain. A proposal has already been made to participate in the operation of the Afghan Resolution Support Unit in Kabul. Kabul Security Force, Kabul Security Force, is a unit led by Great Britain. The deputy commander of the unit is a U.S. officer and the main contributors are the United States, Great Britain, Denmark and Australia. It is very important that the countries with which we are going to Kabul are all countries that are very close to us, with whom we have been with in Afghanistan, namely in the province of Helmand in South Afghanistan and elsewhere in South Afghanistan, in more difficult, difficult operations. Our unit would be specifically part of the British element and his task would be defence, base protection and rapid response in emergency situations. According to the assessment of the Defence Forces, which is supported by the Ministry of Defence, Estonia has an infantry group that can be sent to the operation, as well as ensuring rotation of this group. Such a proposal from the Government of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U170	The first question to the minister is put by Peeter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U171	Good manager! Good minister! The Governor of Kabul is known to Estonia as Yaqub Haidar, who has also been declared wanted in Estonia. My question is this: if our boys go to Kabul, will there be a meeting with the Governor of Kabul?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U172	I have to admit, you know more about this than I do. I cannot give an exhaustive answer to this Governor of Kabul right now, but I can say with such a general remark that since we are talking about a group-level unit, the probability that they will meet some senior Afghan officials is almost nonexistent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U173	We look forward to the negotiations, Peter Ernits. Eerik-Niles Kross.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U174	Good manager! Good minister! You said Estonia had an infantry team that was to be sent. Is it from the Scouts Battalion, or is it necessary to complete it separately? Was there any other capabilities that were considered than simply sending an infantry team?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U175	Thank you. Indeed, it is planned that this unit will come on the basis of the Scouts Battalion. We considered a number of different options, but we also followed very much from the very specific proposal of the British Government concerning participation with Britain. I believe that, given the political context, we must consider it important that our cooperation with the British at the military level is very close. That is the proposal at the moment. Of course, it should be taken into account that Kabul has a politically and symbolicly very important place. I believe that we will give a strong enough military and political signal with our participation in exactly the way we are proposing today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U176	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U177	Good manager! Good minister! I'm not talking about Rapla's milk man anymore. But in the old days, Estonian boys were mostly in the quite dangerous province of Helmand and in the peaceful neighborhood of Mazar-e Sharif in the north were few for some reason. Well, Kabul's pretty cool right now. What is this picture now of how many boys there are in Afghanistan, where they are in the first place, and are they planning to take them somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U178	Thank you. The current situation is that we have six fighters in Afghanistan, and if you comply with this proposal or take a decision to increase the mandate, the number will increase by 40. Indeed, right now, all our fighters are in the north, in a relatively peaceful area, in your name, Mazar-e Sharif. There are five fighters and one is in Kabul headquarters. Kabul really has a place of about the same threat as North Afghanistan, but we must of course consider that Kabul has a symbolically higher value for the Taliban and the ISIS. The level of danger in Kabul is assessed to be high and high on a scale where there is also a very high level, usually in Helmand and other classic combat zones. It is clear that going to Afghanistan always involves risks, but it is part of the use of our Defence Forces in international operations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U179	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Johannes Kert, Member of the National Defence Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U180	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen! For a bill of 564, I have the following to report. At the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 9 January this year, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, Brigadier General Indrek Sirel and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces gave an overview of the draft, including the preparation of the Defence Forces unit to participate in the mission. At its meeting on 15 January this year, the members of the Commission received an appropriate level of information on the security situation in Afghanistan. The draft amends the decision taken by the Riigikogu on 13 December 2017, which extended until 31 December 2018 the use of six members of the Defence Forces for the purpose of the NATO Afghanistan Training and Advice Mission Resolute Support Mission. There were two options for preparing the draft: either to make a new draft decision and to repeal the decision of the Riigikogu of 13 December 2017 or to amend the aforementioned decision of the Riigikogu on 13 December, increasing the number of members of the Defence Forces accordingly. On these options, the Ministry of Defence's lawyers consulted with the Secretary-General of the National Defence Commission, whose proposed draft text was supported by the Ministry. The general principles of the draft. According to point 1 of the draft, the number of members of the Defence Forces on mission will be increased from 6 to 46 and, according to point 2 of the draft, the maximum number of members of the Defence Forces in the rotation period may be up to 92 instead of 12. Thus, the Estonian Defence Forces would contribute to Afghanistan's mission with a team size unit, plus a support element and staff officers. The group shall also be provided with armored vehicles to ensure the protection of personnel and the effectiveness of their tasks. The task of the Estonian Defence Forces is to protect the troops, base defence and respond to crisis situations in the units of the states contributing to Afghanistan. Additional contributions come from a request from NATO and the US, which will increase the number of members of the Defence Forces in Afghanistan. In addition, as the Minister of Defence has just mentioned to us, the United Kingdom Minister of Defence has addressed the Estonian Ministry of Defence with a letter which includes a request to contribute to the composition of the UK unit of the mission in Afghanistan with an infantry team. As we know, the United Kingdom is the leader of the NATO Battle Group in Estonia and we also have long-term positive cooperation relations with the United Kingdom in Afghanistan. Let us also remind you for a moment of our war on freedom, 1919 and the British Navy. By the way, the first British tanks arrived here, not in the previous year, but in 1919, six British tanks had already been unloaded in the port of Tallinn. On the procedural side, the National Defence Committee decided at its meeting on 9 January (consensus) to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. In addition, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft decision and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 31 January. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-17_U181	Thank you so much for your presentation. No questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 564. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 January. Today's day in this big hall is over. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 4.09 p.m.
