ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, good morning! The Tuesday session of the 8th working week of the VIIIth plenary session will begin with the referral of drafts and enquiries. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U2	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs initiates a draft law amending the Road Traffic Act. The initiation is based on the desire to allow the introduction of mobile traffic cameras that measure speed. Its aim is only one: to calm traffic and thereby reduce the number of accidents. So smile at the camera!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U3	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U4	Thank you, good vice chairman. We will report an inquiry to Rene Tammis, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. The subject is e-governance developments. Indeed, several studies have shown that the image of our e-state outside is much stronger than our people actually experience in everyday activities. The problem, such as the analysis carried out by the Centre for Monitoring Development, is that there is no centrally managed vision-based policy-making. There are two realities. This policy is being shaped by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but it is implemented by different ministries, foundations, local authorities. e-democracy, e-inclusion has no owner. Much emphasis is placed on the export of e-services, but the development of services for their citizens is weak. We ask the Minister why the Estonian Information Society Development Plan 2020 has not been realised. How can the development of e-services in municipalities be helped and has administrative reform improved the situation in any way? The second issue that arises all the time in this Chamber is price calculations. There's no way we can figure out why one or the other sum has been written out, whether they're real. Let us raise the subject of the SAIS2 and e-health again, ask why there is no clear division of government responsibility for large public projects, and talk about the "one-window service." Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U5	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U6	Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the members of the Reform Party, I will present an inquiry to the Minister for Culture regarding problems in the field of the Ministry of Culture. In fact, there has been a lot of confusion recently in the field of the Ministry of Culture, in particular with respect to the budgetary discipline of cultural institutions. But we also want to know why the NO theatre was actually closed, which was undoubtedly one of the best theatres in Estonia and the decision to close it was taken with sadness in the Reform Party. We want to know exactly when the Ministry of Culture found out that the NO Theatre was closing, what the Minister's steps were after what alternatives Minister NO theater was considering to continue the activities of the theatre, what would become of the theatre staff. We also want to know what the real financial situation and visitability of the theatre NO99 was. But that's not all, there's another side to the question. We want to find out what is happening in Estonian theatres. What is going on in the Estonian Drama Theatre, which is taking place in the Russian Theatre and the financial situation of the Estonian Concert. We can read on the news about huge budget constraints. We want to know whether such budgetary discipline is sustainable, whether the Minister's promise to level the budget minus at the Estonian Concert with EUR 300000 for next year's budget money is the right solution. Does the Minister have the authority to make such promises before the Riigikogu has adopted the state budget for next year? And is this patching up budget holes at the expense of next year sustainable at all, or is it putting responsibility and problems on the next government? So that's the kind of question to the Minister of Culture. We are awaiting substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give my word that after the negotiations come, everyone will be able to speak in a microphone. Today's first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic (Connecting the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate) (710 SE). [[The protest votes in the hall.]] I've often been told I'm ahead of time. Now there's a presence check. Please! 77 parliamentarians will take part in the meeting, no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U8	First reading of the Act of Government of the Republic initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (Connecting the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate) (710 SE). Minister of the Environment Siim Kisler, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U9	Honourable manager! Thank you for this attempt to keep all the members of the Riigikogu in the hall during my presentation and to carry out the attendance check later! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This bill amends 39 other laws in addition to the Act of the Government of the Republic. In these other laws, the change is purely technical: the word 'Environmental Inspectorate' is replaced by 'Environmental Authority', which will be the name of the merged institution. The Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate are both government agencies under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment and have overlapping tasks and similar tasks. The Environmental Board is responsible for implementing national policies on environmental use, nature protection and radiation safety. The Agency shall, inter alia, issue environmental permits. The Environmental Inspectorate controls compliance with the rules of the laws for the protection of the natural environment and compliance with environmental permits. In addition, there is a state reform in progress; we have a need to meet society's expectations. The interest of the Estonian people in environmental issues is increasing and this requires faster action from us. In both institutions, austerity points are being exhausted, if combined, we would increase sustainability and create better conditions for development. The merger of these two bodies dealing with environmental issues has been analysed and recommended several times in the past. Last time, the National Audit Office did so in the audit of hazardous and radioactive waste, where the biggest cause of the problems encountered is the lack of clarity of responsibility at the level of these public authorities. The aim of the merger between the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate is to create a strong institution that is an expert partner in environmental matters for people in Estonia, companies and other state institutions. When the institutions are merged, we follow the principles that the future institution must be represented in all counties and that there must be a 24-hour security service. In total, some 550 people will work in the new institution. The independence of supervision, also through the structure of the institution to be set up, will certainly be ensured after the institutions have been merged. Independence is guaranteed by the contribution of different professionals. A serious focus will also be placed on the mechanism for preventing the risk of corruption. In order to avoid conflict risks, various measures are being developed to develop organisational culture and internal control. The risks of loss of independence of supervision have been carefully addressed in the merger process. According to the draft, the agencies should be merged as from 1 January 2019. At the time of the entry into force of the Act, the accession-related activities will be completed, including the development of a new statute, structure and composition, and the accompanying human resources activities. Issues relating to the seat and budget of the Agency shall be resolved and amendments to the regulations established under the laws to be amended shall be initiated. Following the merger of the agencies, the agency will continue to fulfil all the existing core functions of the two agencies, including the need to maintain the current competence, i.e. the staff. It is very important that the process of addition is carried out smoothly and that the working processes are carried out in the least disturbing manner possible. The merger takes place in two stages. This will take place legally in January 2019 and will be implemented with the new Director-General. The development of an integrated institution and the progressive implementation of longer-term objectives is a continuous process. Workers' opinions have been gathered for the smooth unification of institutions and all parties have been kept informed through continuous internal communication. The Steering Committee and a number of working groups are working and have mapped out all the activities necessary for the merger. A competition is underway to fill the position of Director General of the Environmental Board, in coordination with the selection committee of the top executives of the State Chancellery. We hope that the Commission chaired by the Secretary of State will present the new candidate by the end of November. To sum it up. The aim of the merger between the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate is to enhance the performance of the country's strategic tasks in the field of the environment and to make more efficient use of available resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U10	Urmas Kruus opens the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You have a very slight view of the compatibility of control and operational functions. Wasn't that absolutely any discussion? In general, we have a common belief that the'self I do, I control' principle in many cases does not produce a very good result. During the discussions, were there no exchange of views on the possibility for the state to have certain control functions outside the ministries? This means that there would be a clearly more independent control function than is currently the case for certain parts of the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U12	Thank you. I didn't understand. Outside the ministries, what's it for? Control units are usually in our offices outside the ministries. I don't know what that means. However, as regards the interaction between the issuing and monitoring of permits, the practice in Estonia is that it goes to one institution, but these activities are kept separate. The person who deals with the issue of permits does not supervise. However, when these people work together in a single institution, it is easier for citizens and businesses from outside to understand which institution they have to communicate with on a matter. It is also easier, for example, to carry out awareness-raising campaigns and other activities, as well as to give legal interpretations together. But the principle really is that the same person doesn't do both things. Examples of how Estonia has permissions and supervision in one institution are numerous: the National Heritage Board, the Veterinary and Food Board, the Tax and Customs Board, the Agricultural Board, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U13	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U14	Good manager! Good waitress! What's with the crazy rush? I remember when we rushed madly, we started to lift the accent sharply. There were no analyses, and Mr Stalnukhin said that there was still a long night ahead of us, and we will finally see what happens. You know what turned out to be. It's the same story right now: no analysis, but it's confirmed that a good thing, let's put it together. Do you think it's okay to put together institutions at this crazy rate and see what comes out later?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U15	Thank you. I cannot tell you exactly the date the government submitted this draft to the Riigikogu. But there's no way to call it a rush in any way. Quite a few months have passed and a lot of water has flowed into the sea. Compared, for example, with the State Budget Act next year, which is presented much later, this process does not seem to be too much. Compared to other draft laws, I wouldn't say it's a rush. The impact on the wider target population has been analysed. The target group is Estonian people, Estonian entrepreneurs. And the conclusion of the analysis is that the impact on the outside is generally rather indirect. Connecting will make it easier for people to communicate with public authorities. A specific draft law does not want to change regulations, requirements, restrictions, etc. In this sense, it is a relatively simple draft. So, compared to much more complicated draft laws, you can't agree that it's a rush.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U16	Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum states that the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate have already been merged since 1 January 2019, i.e. in a month and a half. In addition, the explanatory memorandum states that the merger of institutions is mechanical in the first phase and that the purpose of the concentration has not been set. The same has not been said about how long this first stage will last. It has also been said that jobs do not need to be relocated immediately because the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board are already located in one building in eight counties. Additional costs are also foreseen, EUR 180000. The question arises, then, what is the benefit of combining it. And how long will this first stage last? Please give me an explanation!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U18	Thank you. The first stage is the legal merger of the two institutions, and we have provided in this process, in particular, for the merger of the support services of the two posts. After the institutions are together and they have been selected as a common driver and are currently run by both institutions, the structure will be reviewed under the leadership of this manager to be as reasonable as possible and the resource should be used as rationally as possible. When it comes to costs, we do not ask for additional money from the budget in connection with this bill. But in the long term, it is clear that it is cost savings. Let me give you a very simple example. As you have pointed out, today, these separate public authorities are located in several parts of the same building, and both institutions are facing vehicles. But an employee of one institution cannot use a vehicle from another institution. This means that the number of vehicles is not optimal. The fleet could be implemented much more rationally if these institutions were combined. We can give many examples of this, particularly in the area of support services, when it comes to the use of resources. We have planned the redundancy costs of EUR 55000 in the first step, but ultimately this means a better remuneration for the payroll money that will be released later, as well as for the rest of the employees. The money isn't gonna be taken out of the system. Additional resources are not asked from the state budget, so we will ultimately optimize our use of money and make it more reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U19	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U20	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You missed an excellent opportunity to talk about savings here, the synergy of air is thick of all kinds of stupid reform ideas. But you're presenting a pretty practical undertaking, and you're telling me that everything is actually going to be the same. That's a shame. This message could have been more substantial. But all right. You would rather stress that money will remain, not that it will be saved. But tell me if there's any risk of a merger! Inspection is always an independent activity. The biggest jackass in this hall doesn't realize that it's not politically managed. Have you tried to isolate this risk in any way, that the minister is going to say go and catch this thug?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U21	Thank you. First of all, as regards the preservation of the money, we see, above all, the possibility of using the remaining money to raise the salaries of the remaining officials. Compared to general wage tables, the wages of people working in the environmental field are not in a good position. In fact, I welcome the fact that in recent negotiations on the state budget, it was agreed that the remuneration fund of environmental inspectors would be increased at the same pace as the police and other staff in the field of internal security. It is understood that environmental crimes are serious crimes. This is the first step towards recovery. In general, teachers' salaries, policemen's salaries, etc. have been the subject of political attention, but not the wages of environmental officials. That is why this situation is not good at all. So we definitely need that extra money. If, at the expense of support services and economic costs, we are able to channel additional money into the payroll, I think this is a very good step. However, the question was about the risk that if there is a single institution with authorisation and supervision. But these people are different, and in the same way, we want their cooperation to intensify. However, we really must have internal control, internal audit, in order to ensure that these interests do not conflict when monitoring. Even now, these people often work on a single floor in a house and know each other very well in person. So these threats must be combated even now that there is no Commonwealth. As far as political intervention is concerned, I do not see any deterioration in the situation of this joint institution. We have had for a long time that the Director General of the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate belong to one party and has even belonged to one party with a minister and Chancellor. All four of us are part of the same party, the Reform Party! I don't know if there was political intervention at the time. I hope it wasn't. And I do not see that this threat will increase in any way if the two institutions are merged in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U22	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! The location of headquarters is certainly not of minor importance for such a significant change. You repeatedly stated that nothing changed much, and there is not much financial savings. On that, I would say that this plan is a little bit less ambitious. I would have expected a much longer list of things that would change, including savings in money. But where is this future central office? There are currently two addresses: the Environmental Board is located in Tallinn on the Narva road and the Environmental Inspectorate is located in Pärnu. Can I assume, in view of the general direction of taking state institutions out of Tallinn, that the location of the headquarters is Pärnu? Let me get this straight. And based on your last answer, I'm asking if the director general of this joint institution is from the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U24	Thank you. The last question can be answered by a committee elected by the State Secretary to select senior civil servants. The deadline for submitting candidates has expired, nine people submitted their applications. The Commission shall choose from among them. As far as I am concerned, all candidates are essentially strongly involved in the public sector, not in the private sector. So generally known people. But I come to the point that there are no savings. I stress: austerity is above all on the side of support services and economic costs. Jobs in support services can be reduced, other costs of support services can be reduced. And this savings money can be used to pay people a bigger salary. That's the biggest plus of the bill. In addition to improving the coordination of work and, as has already been mentioned, making it easier for people to do business. When a person goes to Otepää's office, he doesn't have to make sure he's in Environmental Inspectorate or Environmental Board. He just goes to the Environmental Board and knows he can solve his problems there. As far as headquarters are concerned, the legal addresses of the head offices have become quite fictitious today. I can give you an example of the Ministry of Education and Research or some other state institution. A legal address about itself doesn't mean much. But with my decision, the legal address of the Environmental Inspectorate is now in Pärnu and the plan is to move 20 Environmental Inspectorate jobs to Pärnu by April 2019. By now 15 places have been moved to Pärnu, and I assure you that the other five will be taken there by April, as planned. The Environmental Board has promised to take 18 jobs outside Tallinn and Harjumaa by April 2019 and all 18 have already been removed. I can assure you that no jobs will be produced from outside Harjumaa to Harjumaa according to this bill. This has been the idea of this reform from the beginning. What will be the legal address of the institution, which is the implementing act, i.e. the decision of the Regulation. This is one of the lines in the text of the Agency's Statute, where the legal address is mentioned. But I wouldn't overemphasise it. As I said, we have plenty of examples where the legal address of the institution is one, but the residence of the Director-General maybe another. Is this location going to be Pärnu? This is certainly one of the possible options, but first we need to adopt the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U25	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U26	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I don't know where I'm gonna be placed according to the classification of one of my colleagues, the classification of jackass and stoneheads, but I know what I'm talking about. I've worked in the state nature conservation government as a deputy manager and inspector and chief ecologist at the county environmental authority. In general, I understand the critical and risky problems of this so-called dualization. Let me ask you again a little bit about the substance. All the other parties you were talking about, but the content went over relatively quickly. What are the substantive bases for this addition? We include the establishment of authorisation conditions and advice-advisory and, on the other hand, inspection. But in general, no one dares to go to the control body for advice, or at least it is not spoken of publicly. I would still ask for substantive arguments as to why these two completely different sides will be added together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U27	One argument is better coordination of work, as the Auditor General pointed out. When public authorities work together in one area, this should not be the case, as they pointed out by referring to certain cases, for example, that letters are debating the interpretation of legislation. Legislation in this area should be interpreted in the same way. This would ultimately improve the whole environment in every sense for our people, our businesses. That is one important argument. The second argument is certainly cost savings and the use of saved money for better remuneration of employees. And the third is other coordinated activities, such as information campaigns, advice for people. I also think that supervisors can advise people. I believe that they will do so very professionally, regardless of the sector, whether it be the Tax and Customs Board, be it the National Heritage Board, any agency. After all, we see that it works in Estonia. If advice is sought, the Tax and Customs Board will also be consulted, despite the fact that the Tax and Customs Board also has a supervisory function.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U28	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The subject of my question is better quality services, which, as a result of the merger of these institutions, should, as a result, be born. Let's take one of those situations that you call a crisis situation. The explanatory memorandum says that everything gets better, that mobilisation is faster and that information travels faster. But let's assume that God would give us no such thing! just that there's a massive oil spill. Could you describe a little bit of the combined entity's greater capacity that will soon develop? Is it a human factor or a logistical solution, or what are the things that guarantee this better service, a better quality service?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U30	For example, the use of vehicles. If we now need to mobilise the employees of the Environmental Inspectorate, if they need to leave, they cannot use the vehicles of the Environmental Met. Another example: if a company has been granted an authorisation to handle petroleum products, this information is currently in one institution, but supervision is carried out by another authority. I think it makes sense that this kind of information is in one institution. The employee can immediately ask his colleague what kind of company this is, what your contacts with him have been, what you know about this company, this situation, these volumes, the substances they handle. These are all areas of synergy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U31	Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! These last examples you have given do not confirm the image of our e-governance. In order to take turns using cars, and in order for the permit information to reach the examiners, two people do not have to sit in adjacent offices. But when I listened to your answers, I realized that the competition for the Director-General of the new office has already been announced and concluded. Let me get this straight. And if I understand correctly, I am asking you what we are doing here in Parliament right now. Would it not be polite to announce a competition after Parliament has discussed this issue and voted in favour of the draft? I will also explain what I meant by independence when I asked my first question. I meant that we are dealing with a ministry sub-office, and I wanted to know whether it was discussed whether a certain control function in the country as a whole was being taken out of the ministry, so that the controllers would be completely independent. And this is not just about political independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U33	Thank you. First of all, the image of the e-state. With reference to the question of Urve Tiidus, I would like to say that, using the possibilities of the e-state alone, I do not, however, envisage solving the problem of oil pollution. There is also a need for other state contributions. With regard to the competition, a competition was launched to find the Director-General of the Environmental Board. It is stated in the terms of the competition that the candidates have been informed that the draft law on the merger of institutions is being discussed in the Riigikogu. It may be that the Environmental Board is bigger than today, and it may also be that the Environmental Board is as big as it is now. The law did not allow the announcement of the competition to be omitted. The Civil Service Act states that if both current Directors-General end their employment on 31 December, a certain number of days before that, a competition must be launched to find a new Director-General. The third question concerned the transfer of supervision outside the ministries. There was no more discussion of this in the context of the bill. There has been more talk about whether supervision could be in the hands of the Police and Border Guard Board. This proposal has been made and has been discussed. In this draft, we have seen just this synergy, the cooperation that happens when the information is in one institution. If supervision is brought under the Police and Border Guard Board, it will certainly not strengthen the cooperation in the field of the environment. We know the Police and Border Guard Board is about ten times bigger. The priorities there are close-up violence, drugs and other such issues. People in the environmental field in general do not have the conviction that this would in any way increase synergies and improve the knowledge that we should have in order to solve environmental problems. Rather, it is a concern that this issue would sink between many others and become more familiar with environmental problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U34	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U35	Good manager! Good waitress! You said there was no rush, but right now you said the law has not been passed, but the competition is already in progress. You admitted that there was actually a rush. But my question is that the people of the state reform think that things should be viewed in substance. Right now, you're making a technical connection. Have you analyzed the number of permits issued by the Environmental Board that the inspection has to control? Perhaps we should look at the whole picture in order to cut the wings of bureaucracy and make it easier for people-businesses, and then unite this whole area? There is now a technical over-the-counter merger; there is no substantive analysis. Is this intercourse in the parking lot: that the Agency issues so many permits and that the inspection must start to check the use of so many permits?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U36	Thank you. First of all, as far as the Director-General's competition is concerned, it should have been declared by law, whether or not the Office is merged or not. There's nothing we can do about it, we had to announce this competition, that's what the law says. Five years is the Director-General's term of office, and that time is now over. I can't remember the exact number by heart right now, but a certain number of days before that, a competition has to be announced. So one way or another, these two processes are related, but the law requires both of them to be dealt with. Secondly, as far as the number of permits in general is concerned, yes, we are constantly analysing how the process can be simplified. There's two sides to the game. The last example of simplification is the logging notification system for forest management. Thanks to the legislative amendment made by the legislator, there is now an automatic system in place. This allowed the Environmental Board to bring together quite a number of people, the essence of the robot solves many situations on its own. It's gotten easier. However, it has also raised questions as to whether it should be that simple. We are also constantly working on a new environmental permit information system. Let's see if we can solve our problems with a single complex permit so we don't have to have a lot of different licenses. But again, there are two sides to the game. If we want to simplify certain environmental activities, there are always 'no' votes asking whether this simplification is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U37	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! In addition to the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate, we also have an Environment Agency, whose activities are quite close to those mentioned above. Was the association of this agency with them also discussed and, when discussed, why is it not considered appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U39	Thank you. Yeah, they discussed it. In an analysis commissioned earlier by the Ministry of Finance, it has been pointed out that the three agencies could actually be merged. But right now we've come to the conclusion that it's too big a bite. The Environmental Board itself has been formed by the merger of different bodies. The Environment Agency has been set up five years ago by merging different bodies and, according to the Director-General, they have now started to work well together. Now, to think that we're putting together as different areas as the Environmental Inspectorate and the weather report, it seemed like a bit of a big bite. It seemed reasonable to first bring together the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate and then perhaps after a few years, for example after five years, consider the next stage of the merger between the Environmental Agency and the Environmental Board. That is the position that has now remained, and that is why this draft law is before you in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U40	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The merger of the two institutions concerns, in addition to the possible introduction of new tasks and the hope of synergies, people working in these institutions in a very specific way. There's not much time. It's a rush. Can you assure us that internal communication with these people is in progress, that it is enough and that someone currently employed will be harmed, no one will be wronged and no one will be left out?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U42	Thank you. The mechanism has been that a steering group with a ministerial decree was first set up to prepare the reform. The Directors-General of both institutions are also involved and the project managers have been appointed by both institutions from among their own staff. In four places in Estonia, a large meeting has been held, where all the staff of both institutions have been invited, and all their questions have been answered. This has taken place under the leadership of the Chancellor of the Ministry. The various working groups of the Steering Group have discussed how monitoring will take place, how legal departments, human resources departments etc. will work together, etc. My last experience is a visit to Valga's office, where these institutions were essentially adjoining rooms. I also visited these rooms in Räpina. I must say that the people I have spoken to did not have critical views. They'd rather say we have to cooperate one way or the other. It seems to me that much of these concerns have been removed. But, in my opinion, the greatest concern for this kind of situation -- we have seen this before in connection with public authorities -- it is not one institution that swallows up another institution to have some sort of balance. They both have their own organizational culture. We are doing everything we can to avoid such a situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U43	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Here's the question. At present, nature has set the time for salmonid spawning. If this bill is now adopted and these agencies are merged, to what extent will the salmonians be better protected from predators during spawning? Today, unfortunately, neither the state nor local authorities can handle the kidnappers, volunteers and the Police and Border Guard Board, and everyone else, are invited to help. How can we be more effective in protecting our national treasures, or salmonid ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U45	Thank you. When the two agencies are together, it is certainly easier to do information. All employees can provide better explanations. It is clear that the duties of inspector can still be performed by an inspector. We cannot live our whole lives for the salmonids, but the members of the Riigikogu are also very welcome to contact the fishermen's company and go with them to a voluntary fishing watch.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U46	Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U47	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! Just in response to Mr Aru's question, you said that one of the widespread fears of uniting organisations is that neither one nor the other will swallow up. And it's perfectly natural and human. You have said that for the time being, in the first stage, everything will remain as it is. Offices stay in the same places and people stay in the same work. But I ask you this way: in which areas of Environmental Board and Environmental Inspectorate do you see the greatest shortcomings now? Where could this new joint institution direct its activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U48	I think that, above all, we must be able to put more emphasis on supervision, also in terms of posts. I think it was Peter Ernits who asked about the license. We need to think about how this would be as smooth as possible, quick and less labour, and ultimately implement more staff for monitoring. I think this is the direction of the future that awaits this institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U49	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I certainly do not want to prioritise this topic of competition, this is not the most important issue in the world, but what has happened to me is extremely illogical. I can't imagine whether the candidates in this competition wrote an essay to apply only for the position of Director General of the current Environmental Board or for the position of Director General of the Joint Institution. I expect the last one, of course. It would be particularly absurd if they had written an essay only for the position of Director General of the Environmental Board. Then it's completely pointless. In my opinion, there would have been no major problem if someone had been appointed to act for a few months, some deputy would have taken over, and after Parliament had approved the draft, once the agencies were united, a call for competition would have been announced for the Director-General of the Joint Office. And the second question is whether, according to this draft, the savings are zero, or rather, the balance sheet has a minus sign. The cost is EUR 180000, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U51	Thank you. In answer to the second question, I assure you that, in a large picture, this draft does not mean an additional burden on the state budget or additional resources saved for the state budget. In the beginning, it means a certain cost to the joint institution for the exchange of certificates, for the exchange of business cards, for the exchange of stickers on cars. This estimate has been made: EUR 45000. But, for example, the old forms of the Environmental Inspectorate are planned to be completed, not to buy new forms for people right away with the name of the new institution. Let's do the best we can. But in the long term, combining support services means savings and, as I said, this money can be used to raise wages. Now, the first part of the question, I didn't write it down, it got out of my head. Can you give me a hand? [[A voice from the hall.]] The law clearly states that a competition must be announced. We have now announced a competition. Candidates are told that the Environmental Board may be bigger and may be smaller. We have also seen it in other institutions that a person is applying for a certain number of jobs as head of an institution, but after that, a much more or vice versa institution must be run much less jobs. I guess that's something to consider. Probably depending on how the Riigikogu feels about the draft, the motivation of some candidates may also be reduced. That, of course, is possible; unfortunately, this cannot be ruled out. But, as I said, the law says, no later than several days before the end of the employment of the incumbent, a competition must be announced. There are procedures that take time. Perhaps it would have been a very difficult situation for several months if we had not announced this competition at all. In any case, hope that we will find a hole in the law, the Secretary of State has assured me that he will not be able to miss this competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U52	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U53	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I fully agree with you that authorisation must be made simpler, more effective and more effective. This is either necessary in the appendix or not necessary in the appendix. In the event of a competition, however, I do not think it is a matter of the size of the agency. It's more like I'm running for one job, but I'm gonna get a control function in Brezhnev's package, which is totally different. This is actually a much bigger problem. So I'm still asking you about addition. You also talked about the Environment Agency and the Environmental Board. Why weren't they considered? They are both bodies carrying out substantive tasks. Why is the Environmental Board and the Auditing Inspectorate involved in the work of substance merged? And the question of both the present and the future: who controls the controllers and how? How has this happened so far, and how will this happen in the future, if these same parties, on the one hand, are in the same house and on the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U54	Thank you. As I have already said, in general Estonia has done this way, that supervision and authorisation are in one institution. I also gave a number of examples here: the National Heritage Board, the Tax and Customs Board, the Agricultural and Veterinary and Food Board. You can all look around and see that in general Estonia this path has been followed. I stress here that the Environmental Inspectorate does not control the Environmental Board. The Environmental Board issues the permit and the Environmental Inspectorate checks how the beneficiary operates, whether it complies with the permit conditions. So one institution doesn't control the other. Both activities are directed outwards, aimed at people, targeted at businesses. The risk of conflict referred to in this sense is not high. If you think one authority controls another, it doesn't. And right now, the internal audit has to do a good job. In itself, environmental crimes exist. And I don't know how much we know about this in society, but environmental crimes are often very serious economic crimes. So far, we have seen that the wages of workers in the environmental field have not been among the first priorities. That is, no matter what kind of government alliances we've had. I think we can all admit it honestly. Often people who operate and issue licences in this area and, on the other hand, those who supervise these people make very important decisions. Their decisions may depend on millions of companies. I think it is very important that those who do this very work every day are motivated in their work. On the side of support services, these risks are not so great. But it is the people who do the work of substance that must be motivated, must be well paid. And this bill proposes one way we can make it more effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U55	Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U56	Thank you. Good minister! After the first phase, about 550 people will remain employed in the joint institution. It is clear that most of them have jobs outside Tallinn, but still a considerable part works in Tallinn. I'm gonna take this opportunity to ask you what the state of construction of the new wooden environmental building is. After all, the jobs of the employees of the Environmental Mets and the Environmental Inspectorate were planned there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U57	Thank you. The architecture competition for the new environmental building was announced on 6 November and lasts for a few months. The competition is international, we try to inform as many offices as possible. We are using the money from the sale of CO2 quotas because it is an environmentally friendly project. And it is really planned that all the institutions in our field will move there together in Harjumaa. A third of this would be taken up by the Natural History Museum. Why do we need new surfaces? One reason is that a large part of the environmental sector is currently located on rental premises rented from the private sector and not on the most favourable terms. Either way, the issue of new premises will have to be resolved in the coming years. The plan of the number of places, the planning of the premises, is based on the fact that the jobs that remain in Harjumaa are moving there together. We must bear in mind the responsibility of how many jobs we are taking out of Harjumaa. I read these numbers before.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U58	Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U59	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. When you put together these two institutions, you have stressed that there is no major change to be expected in terms of financial savings; the number of people remains more or less the same. At the same time, you also stressed that the proportion of controls could increase. But please tell me once again why you see the need to merge these two institutions, and briefly also what results you expect. For example, in a year's time, on what basis do you estimate that this was a success? What should have changed in a year? And do you see any threats next to the positive? What could go wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U60	Thank you. I'll start from the back. What could go wrong? It may go wrong that there is no good atmosphere of cooperation in this institution, as the working cultures of these institutions are, to some extent, different at the moment. Like I said, one side might feel like the other one swallowed him. People's motivation is falling and the results of their work are suffering. There is certainly a risk of corruption. This should be monitored closely. In the same way, we want people to communicate more closely, so that the exchange of information is more frequent, but there must of course not be any illegal cooperation between them. These are the dangers I see. On the other hand, the pros: the exchange of information becomes better, the interpretation of legislation becomes more uniform. Persons and businesses who need to deal with matters in this area are communicating with a single institution and they know that the legal space for them is the same. Overall, the use of resources will become more flexible in terms of the use of money, the use of vehicles, as well as the use of people, such as information campaigns.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U61	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I got quite a lot of interesting information, but the basic information was that the effect would appear to a large extent when, instead of two cars, one car crashed into the object. Well, that's very important, of course, but that means half the cost of cars. But I have a question about the competition. You said that the term of office of both the inspection and the Director-General of the Agency would expire on 31 December. Was it a language child? If not, can it be legally that if the Riigikogu fails to accept this draft hastily, the law will be broken because the competition of the Director General of the Environmental Inspectorate has not been announced?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U63	If you hurry, you wouldn't pass the law. But yes, it is true that, according to the law, the selection committee of senior state officials, headed by the Secretary of State, has announced one competition, not two competitions, on the proposal of the Minister of the Environment. If this law is not passed by the Riigikogu, then a competition must be announced as a matter of urgency to fill the position of Director General of the Environmental Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U64	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U65	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Let me ask you another question: is the idea of combining these two institutions the desire of the Minister and taking the lead, or has it come from below or somewhere else? Where did this idea come from and how old is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U66	My good colleague and friend Marko Pomerants indicated that this idea came from the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, this has been discussed repeatedly for at least ten years in relation to the various draft national reforms. I haven't really brought this facet into play here, but basically we can say it's part of the state reform. We have set very many goals to make the structure of our public authorities more minimalist, more effective. It can certainly be said that this is part of the reform and an old idea. In our field, this idea blossomed when the new chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment took office on Midsummer Day. He took it as one of the priorities he decided to make immediately. He felt that it would be possible to make our work in this area more efficient. He very much believes in this idea, and he has been the leader of it, he has been the leader of the steering group leading the reform. He's been to these meetings in the counties I talked about earlier. So the so-called Chief Ideologist is the chancellor of our ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U67	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U68	Thank you. I'm still worried about the competition. Before you stressed very strongly on several occasions that the deadlines laid down in the law must be respected and that the Environmental Board, whether large or small, must be found a leader. But if we find the head of the inspection, we'll have the same deadline, no competition has been announced. Is this a violation of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U69	This depends on how the Riigikogu deals with the draft we are discussing today. I very much hope that the Riigikogu will support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U70	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to ask you this: does the government now have a voluntary impact assessment? Is it true that when it comes to discussing new drafts, it can and will not do so? In this draft, did you consider the analysis of the effects unnecessary or unnecessary? Why has the impact assessment not been carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U72	Thank you. This draft law has an explanatory memorandum and paragraph 6 thereof has become the title 'The Effect of the Law'. It says here that the implementation of the law does not have a social impact, an impact on national security and external relations, regional development or a significant impact on the organisation of local government. Jne, et cetera. You can see for yourself, it's a longer text. The impact of restructuring on public authorities and the impact of restructuring on the population and companies has been specifically highlighted. It has been said that public services aimed at citizens and businesses will become more high-quality and uniform, as in the future, one of the bodies performing implementation functions in the field of the environment. This will make it clearer and easier for a person to communicate with a country. There are many more paragraphs here about what this effect will be. The reduction in administrative burdens has been identified separately. Risks and mitigation measures are shown in a separate table. I would say that the most concise sentence is that the target group can be judged to be rather large, while the impact on the target group by combining the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Agency is rather indirect, which is why the overall impact is irrelevant. So the impact has been assessed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U73	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U74	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! The answer to my previous question gave me the impression that the efficiency and profitability of merging these institutions also depended on the number of unpaid voluntary work. How much does the voluntary work of a free-of-charge citizen, including members of the Riigikogu, contribute to improving efficiency? Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U75	Thank you. I am afraid that so far the share of the members of the Riigikogu in the total volume has been very small.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U76	Honourable Minister, thank you very much. No further questions. The presentation of the commission is made by Andres Metsoja, member of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U77	President-in-Office of the Council. Good people's representatives! Minister, thank you very much. Good guests on the balcony! First of all, I want to congratulate the Maritime Administration. There are a number of occupations in Estonia. There are good people who perform their duties very well, thinking about the Estonian state every day and that our lives in Estonia, the people of Estonia, would be better. They're doing their job with their hearts. The Maritime Administration is having a birthday. Once again, congratulations! But Bill 710 is indeed all about what the Minister for the Environment has already introduced. In the Committee on the Environment, this issue has been discussed twice. The first discussion took place already on 10 September, at the beginning of the session season. At that time almost all the members of the Commission were present; only Kalle Palling was missing. At the time, the principles of merging the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate were discussed, although this particular draft was not yet on the table. Meelis Münt made a presentation introducing basically the same positions as the Minister in this Chamber today. Rainer Vakra asked whether the competition of the new Director General would be announced before the discussion of the relevant draft law in the Riigikogu. Siim Kiisler replied that even if the Riigikogu did not adopt the law, the competitions of the Directors-General should be announced in any case in connection with the end of their term of office. The question is whether a competition will be launched to find one or two Directors-General. Meelis Münt stated that there have been such precedents before. The committee chairman noted that this would in any case be detrimental to good practice. In addition, the chairman of the committee wondered whether a more in-depth study had been carried out to merge the two institutions. The Chancellor explained that these analyses had already been carried out in 2008 and that no further consolidated analysis had been carried out later. This is not necessary in order to merge mechanical bodies, but in the second phase a more thorough analysis must be ordered. Meelis Mälberg asked for an explanation of the share of the funding of this project in the budget of the Environmental Board. To clarify this, it was said that a large part of the required amount is made up of different grants from the European Union. Andres Onemar was also present that day, who provided further explanations on the financing issue. Meelis Mälberg wondered if the institutions in all county centres would move together. Meelis Münt explained that these institutions are currently in eight places in the same house and seven settlements separately. The aim is to have a joint institution in one building in the future, but it will not be carried out vigorously by 1 January. Terje Trei was interested in the costs of the merger. As has been the case here today, Meelis Münt also pointed out at the time that the economic costs of winding up the inspection should be nearly EUR 40000 and personnel costs around EUR 100000. The speaker asked whether it would be legally a merger or a merger of institutions, because in one case a new body would be created for the organisation. Mr Münt replied that it was likely that the authorities would be merged, because the creation of a new agency with a registration code would lead to too much bureaucracy. The speaker also wondered where the Director-General of the new institution would be working. Meelis Münt explained that since the institution covers the whole of Estonia, the location of the office of the Director General is irrelevant. The Minister added that a large part of the jobs will remain in Tallinn, as the majority of the supervisory activities will also take place here, but there will be no withdrawal from the commitment already made to remove many of the inspection posts from Tallinn. Peeter Ernits pointed out that this is a whole variety of institutions and that the addition without in-depth analysis is a hasty step. Peeter Volkov, Director General of the Environmental Inspectorate, felt that there was no difference in whether to carry out an in-depth analysis before or after the mechanical merger, it was important that there was also a future director-general in these processes. In conclusion, Terje Trei wished to emphasise that he supported the merger of institutions. Peter Ernits, however, pointed out that he was not in favour of joining him. Valeri Korb was interested in monitoring: can this reform result in an increase in the number of supervisors? Andres Onemar explained that very much depends on resources; without additional resources, the new Director-General will have to review the work processes. He also said that if you invest more in prevention, the inspectors will have easier work. Peter Volkov pointed out that a good practice would be if there was one supervisor for each authorising officer, but we did not. By cutting red tape, too, it is possible to find free resources. The Commission's final decision at this meeting was to take note of all this information. On 5 November, the Committee on the Environment discussed this draft law at its meeting, where all the members of the committee were present and the Environment Minister Siim Kiisler, Chancellor Meelis Münt and Chancellor Rainis Uiga were invited. Basically, the subject was re-examined, perhaps in less detail. Siim Kiisler emphasised that the National Audit Office has prepared an audit which considers that it is necessary to merge the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate. I took out this audit to get to know it. It is entitled 'A follow-up audit of the management of hazardous and radioactive waste'. It highlights the position of the Auditor General that this direction is correct, as there are often problems with understanding the other two institutions. Surely the common space should increase the quality of work for the workers of these organisations. Meelis Münt explained that the working group had developed a merger plan involving almost 106 activities to achieve a successful outcome. Rainer Vakra once again asked where the official head office of the new institution would be. Siim Kiisler replied that the interest has been shown by both the municipalities of Pärnu and Rapla. He also noted that some jobs would certainly remain in Tallinn, as many environmental topics are relevant here. Meelis Mälberg wondered if it had been decided where the offices of the joint institution would be in the counties and where the competition for the new director general would be. The Minister replied that, according to the approved principle, the county offices are maintained, there is no direct plan to close the offices, but the posts may be relocated. Rainis Uiga added that today many offices are also nature centres. Meelis Münt stated that nine applications were received for the Director General's competition. Kalle Palling wondered whether the merger of the Environmental Inspectorate with the Police and Border Guard Board or other alternatives was also considered. Mr Uiga replied that this alternative had not been considered. The objective of the Environmental Meteorological and Environmental Inspectorate is to maintain environmental status and to strengthen environmental development and implementation units. The Minister added that the purpose of the merger is to achieve better cooperation between the two sub-offices of the Ministry of the Environment and therefore the merger with the Police and Border Guard Board has not been considered. Kalle Palling, however, felt that such an analysis would still be necessary to understand how the state of Estonia would be best able to resolve the situation. The speaker asked whether it was considered to connect the Environmental Board and RMK's natural centres. They're both dealing with the same subject. Meelis Münt explained that this has not been discussed at the moment, but this topic may come in the post-ensemble phase. Meelis Mälberg asked whether the rights of the inspector would also be transferred to the employees of the Environmental Board when the agencies were merged. Mr Uiga explained that the authorisation and supervision of the inter-institutional structure must definitely be kept separate. The authorising officer cannot go and check it the next day. Eev Paasmäe had an interest in sharing environmental responsibility between municipalities and the state. The Chancellor replied that municipalities could make more environmental decisions and monitor, as they knew the local life better. Finally, Meelis Mälberg asked when the Director-General of the joint institution would become clear. Rainis Uiga replied that probably at the end of November. It was jointly decided to appoint a rapporteur for the draft, who I am, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading today, to propose that the first reading of the draft 710 be terminated and that the deadline for amendments be set at 27 November inclusive. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U78	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. I will open negotiations on the general principles of the draft law. Peeter Ernits, probably on behalf of the EKRE Group. Take your credentials with you, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are also being monitored by the staff of the institutions that we are going to unite here. A minute ago, I was talking to one of them, and this person said about the minister's speech in the country language, he's still insane. But let's talk content! There are two agencies: Inspection and Environmental Board. One has fewer employees, 200 people, but more cars, higher salaries, better motivation, better organizational culture. It has been long tuned and developed because it is an environmental police. That's one. Yes, it was mentioned that there is also an Environmental Agency. According to the Minister, it's too much to eat for five years it's been ready, and now's not the time to add it to anyone. Well, okay. Yes, indeed, ten years ago, when the Environmental Board was established, the plans were to join the inspection. I also agree with what Mr Pomerants said here that this idea came from the Ministry of Finance. But still a few keywords. It's a rush. It's a head-on rush. The agencies haven't been merged yet, and we don't even know if we're adding them here, but the Director-General's competition is already in progress. And they're looking for the head of the Environmental Board. But as Peep Aru pointed out here, when the bill goes to the slur, there is a problem that the competition of the Director General of the Environmental Inspectorate has not been announced. But they are such little nuances. The most important thing, in fact, is this and it has not been said, nor has the Minister said that the proportions are capitalically out of place. In other parts of Europe, where we want to belong, there is broadly a cocktail of permit holders and reviewers 1: 1. We have a cocktail composition of two: one, two permit holders and one checker. Also, an inventory of the same importance has not been completed. Do we even have that many permits to issue? We have 351 officials in the Environmental Met dealing with the issue of permits. Do we really need this to make people's lives easier and to normalise the lives of entrepreneurs? This inventory has not been completed. And this Ministry is scared of the devil's lightning. Maybe then the environmental associations will come up, etc. We better hide our heads in the sand and add, technically, as the Minister proposed here, these two institutions together from 1 January. At the end of November, however, we will find out who the director general is. It is not known if he is from the Fatherland. There are nine candidates. But it's kind of a little distraction. We'll put the two bodies together technically, and then we'll see what's going to be. I would remind you that in Finland, if you have an ermets, you do not need any forest notification. But we need the officials to work. Or another thing: you're going to make a well, an environmental impact assessment is necessary. You could ask me why. In many countries it is not necessary, we need it. But I'm not gonna give you any more examples. So the Minister wasn't really talking about the basics. Around Midsummer Day, a new chancellor was appointed. By the way, the old chancellor, who knew the system thoroughly and also knew that the term of office of the Directors-General would be over on 31 December, did not consider it necessary to declare it. But suddenly, before Midsummer Day, the new chancellor began to drive it out of the blue. And right now, we're here with this so-called thing in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U80	Does a colleague want more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U81	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U82	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U83	In short, this is a raw matter, although the Minister argued that it has been in the process for several months. I'm sticking to the fact that there are too many loose ends. We could have tried to tie these ends up first, but not to come up here saying that on 1 January, we will put the authorities together technically and then we will see how we start using cars and how we will harmonise wages. I would like to remind you that one organisation has a much higher organisational culture and is much better motivated, and this is part of the so-called environmental police. The postal address of the large office of granting permits is in Tallinn, the inspection in its own Pärnu. And the minister says it's a pointless question where the mail address is. Really, our mail address could be somewhere else, wouldn't it? We all have a cell phone or a smart phone in our pockets. So it's not like it's very smart. And now for a brief conclusion. We're adding up again. The people it concerns are looking at us now and greetings to them from this side! Really, I think the minister was insane. There's too many loose ends! Let's tie them up first, think about how to make people's and entrepreneurs' lives better. It is not worth passing on this bureaucracy by adding two bodies technically, and then we will see what is essentially going to happen. It's such a small advance. Of course, it does not cause much financial damage, such as the hasty adoption of an increase in excise duty, but one could think before doing so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U84	Marko Pomerants will take part in the negotiations on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U85	Hello, good President. Honourable hall! It rarely happens in my life that I didn't plan on speaking, but you see, there's no other way. I don't usually do that. But today is one of those rare occasions. I came to the remote just because I think I know my way around it. Let us now try to analyze the situation calmly. Mathematicians know that it is very clear in mathematics: twice four is about seven to eight. But if we come to the administration, there is no correct answer at all. Surely the country can be developed like this and can be developed like this. I am among the people who have taken a peaceful approach to this issue as a minister. There are two ways to approach it: one is such a pure-bred approach that it is not like in a Soviet diner to 'we drink ourselves, we eat ourselves, we bring our own dishes'. The functions have been separated. But I'm certainly not one of those people who see there's some kind of corruption or security risk or any kind of hustling risk. Now for the proportions that my colleague, Peter Ernits, has just talked about. It is certainly wrong to claim that the employees of the Environmental Board are full environmental permit publishers. These are very different activities that protect the environment, and only one part of these people deals with the issue of permits. If you look at life at all, you're certain that the only thing that's eternal is change. I can't blame you for the fact that the current leaders of the Ministry of the Environment have made this change. The theme of the Environment Agency also came through here. I also think that this is a public institution that has become a regular ward after the previous assembly and reform of the so-called intensive care room. Probably not the time to make the next change there soon. As far as the wage policy of the state is concerned, the wage policy of the public sector in Estonia is not very bright. We have about this notion that internal resources must always be found. Sometimes these most recent ones are helped too. Teachers, rescuers and police officers may be lucky more often, but from next year's budget we will see that the veterinarians and environmental inspectors on the government's payroll have finally decided to help out. But otherwise, internal reserves! It is interesting, of course, that if this stage is completed and institutions are merged, then reserves are kaput and something new needs to be developed. Internal communications. Urve Palo or someone else asked if it was enough. I can assure you once again, maybe it is the same in the private sector, but in the public sector it is certainly the truth that there is no situation where internal communication is sufficient. It's not that hard to find one person to say, but I don't know anything. Still and always there are so many loose ends, it goes along with all the changes. And what you can do is just try to be as good as possible and enough in your communications. I'll take my three minutes out, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U86	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U87	Now for possible effects. You can't do any very complicated Excel here. The main moments have been canceled. Indeed, it is ridiculous when letters are sent in one house and environmental lawyers from both the inspectorate and the office try to explain what we are here in the Riigikogu, but maybe sometimes the authors of subacts have actually been thinking about. Q-GSM once had a well-known business statement: 'Talk to people! '. This, I think, could be the most important effect. And certainly, it is also possible to make additional use of money for other purposes, namely increasing people's wages. In general, man makes plans, and the old god laughs. I urge you to proceed with the reading of this bill. I have understood that the Estonian people certainly expect our environment to be monitored at a high and good level. Nature matters to people. Again, I come back to Peter's speech: why does a private forest owner have to submit a logging statement? What country is this?! If you look outside the window, we've got a bigger problem than you can see. The problem is how much, in which volumes and on which surfaces the forest is cut. So let's be consistent! Thank you and good treatment. I'll be right in front of you with the next bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U88	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 710. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 16 a.m. on 27 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U89	Today's second item: First reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act (696 SE) initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And so it happens that the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Marko Pomerants, comes to the table. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U90	Thank you. You'll see that I have a premonition, not for a very long time, but something. You have before you draft 696, the law amending the European Parliament Election Act. The initiator is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and this is not because we have nothing to do there. In 2019, the elections to the European Parliament are coming, and I have a low degree of predictability in this respect, and there is a very high probability that Brexit is going to redistribute the number of seats in the European Parliament between the Member States. Some Member States will have more seats, but some places will also remain in reserve. In the case of Estonia, this means that the number of our mandates will be seven instead of six. This must also be brought into line with our relevant law. The current law specifically states that there are six members so that the law should be amended. In order to make the European Parliament's election law more "change-proof," we have proposed the solution that the current law will be amended in such a way as to read: 'The number of members elected to the Estonian Parliament is laid down in European Union legislation. " There is an alternative. If we look at the current situation, it could be made clear that this is a decision of the European Council, but we, as initiators, have thought that the accuracy proposed would be enough. The next item sets out the number of candidates. As we know, this is a situation where we have six mandates and there may be up to 12 candidates on the list of each party, so double as many as there are mandates. When discussing the matter with the representatives of the political parties in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we found that the principle could be similar to what we have in the Riigikogu elections: there can be as many names on each list as there are mandates in this district, plus 2 names. Here comes the number of candidates. As we know, in the Euro Parliament elections, the Republic of Estonia is one of the districts. Now, if we are to say whether democracy or participation should be reduced as a result of this change, let us look at real life! History has shown, and in this case, it goes the same way, that the terms of office between parties may be spread from zero to three. And if we also look at how political parties collect these votes, it is clear that everyone has their own letters in front numbers. There are certainly more candidates who have a high voting capacity. But in general, he is, as my groupmate Sven Sester says, for all political parties: this is a team thing. Each party goes on with a full team, which so far has been 12 people, and then it will be 9. So the Estonian people still have the opportunity to find a suitable candidate, a suitable party. This is a practical approach. The Ministry of Justice has sent us a letter saying that they basically support this bill. But there is no other option here, the elections to the European Parliament will come anyway. At the same time, the Ministry asks, in accordance with a remark, whether a radical change such as a reduction in the number of candidates compared to the existing regulation so little time before the elections is a reasonable step. I dare assure you that, in the current situation in which political parties are consolidating their forces, they know what legal space is possible during the elections. I don't see a place of fear here. Since this is an electoral law, it is a prerequisite for this bill to become a law that at least 51 members of the Riigikogu vote in favour of it. The whole procedure has been in our hands, so to speak, in a consensus. Procedural decisions are: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's sitting (all of us thought that this was a good idea), to propose that the first reading be stopped (which was also in agreement) and to set the deadline for amendments at 16.11., i.e. the 16th day of November at 4 p.m. (there was also a consensus on this). In advance, I say that this is not the usual deadline for 10 days of amendments, but in the case of such a short two draft amending the paragraph, we do not expect very many substantive amendments to come. So this time is enough for political groups and members of the Riigikogu. We will be well aware of this situation before the next elections to the European Parliament, where some of us will certainly be among the candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-13_U91	Now is the time for substantive questions. No request for questioning. Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 696. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 16 November at 4 p.m. Thank you very much for today's debates. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 11.45 a.m.
