ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Welcome, esteemed guests, to your role in today's session! The Tuesday session of the VIIIth plenary session, on the 6th working week, has begun. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want. Requesting presence check! 70 delegates will take part in the meeting, no 31.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 153 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Environmental Committee, determined the important national question 'Estonia needs a strategy for exiting oil shale energy', i.e. Põxit', for the discussion of the following procedure: the presentation of the Estonian Green Movement Management Board member Mihkel (up to 15 minutes), questions and answers (up to 20 minutes), the presentation of Rainer Vakra (up to 15 minutes), questions and answers (also 20 minutes), the presentation of Anneki Teelahu (up to 15 minutes), questions and answers (up to 20 minutes) by the President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences Tarmo Finnishe (up to 15 minutes), and questions to him and answers (up to 20 minutes). And as usual, each member of the Riigikogu can submit up to two questions to the rapporteurs, after which there will be negotiations. At the proposal and request of the Committee on the Environment, I propose to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups first take the floor and then all other members of the Riigikogu take the floor. Members of the Government of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice also have the right to speak when they come to the hall. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. The Committee on the Environment has proposed to extend the session until the item is exhausted, if necessary, but not beyond 2 p.m. in the afternoon. At a certain point in time, we will consider whether such a need has arisen. So, the key national question 'Estonia needs a strategy for exiting oil shale energy', or Põxit. The first presentation will be made by Mihkel Annus, Member of the Management Board of the Estonian Green Movement. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U3	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This spring, 1079 Estonians signed the public address 'Estonia needs an oil shale energy exit strategy or Põxit'. The appeal described the need to make a comprehensive consensual political decision on the abandonment of oil shale energy and set it as a clearly defined objective. To this end, an action plan is needed to assess and mitigate the risks associated with the exit of oil shale energy, or the so-called Põxit Strategy. This appeal has now reached a discussion as a key national issue through the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu. But why is the oil shale energy exit strategy an important national issue? Firstly, the vast majority of climate scientists agree that emissions of greenhouse gases from human activities, and in particular carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, are causing an increase in global climate conditions. This is why, under the Paris climate agreement, the global objective is to limit greenhouse gas emissions and the resulting increase in average atmospheric temperature. According to the Ministry of the Environment, about 90% of the greenhouse gas emissions in Estonia come from the energy sector. The overwhelming part of it, in turn, comes from oil shale energy. In order to reduce our carbon footprint and to be consistent, among other things, with the European Union's perspective of gradually moving towards a carbon-neutral society by 2050, we need to deal with cutting emissions from the energy sector in good time and in substance. The most effective way to do this is to start from where the most can be pulled together, i.e. to realise the transition from oil shale to renewable energy, while ensuring the security of electricity supply and socio-economic well-being in Estonia. Secondly, the environmental report published by the OECD of the global economic organisation last year also refers to Estonian oil shale energy as a matter of national importance. According to the report, the Estonian economy is by far the most carbon intensive compared to OECD countries. This means that for the benefits produced by the economy, we emit the largest amount of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, thus exceeding the OECD average figure more than twice. In addition, the report stresses that abandoning oil shale dependence is currently the biggest environmental, economic and social challenge in Estonia. According to the World Bank, Estonia has one of the world's largest carbon footprints for the average population, most of which is national dependence on oil shale energy. Thirdly, environmental disturbances caused by the use of oil shale are Estonia's largest environmental burden. In addition to air pollution, the oil shale sector also accounts for the vast majority of hazardous waste and waste water generated in Estonia. In addition, oil shale mining has damaged the upper aquifers in the extensive area of Northern Estonia and also threatens the deeper water layer of Lasnamäe-Kunda. Fourthly, the oil shale sector has a significant health impact on the local population living in the region. A study of the health impact of the oil shale sector, carried out in cooperation with the Estonian Health Board and the University of Tartu, revealed that the health of the Eastern virulans is worse than that of the compatriots in several respects, and the pollution of the region due to the oil shale industry was also mentioned as an important reason for this. Although this is a regional impact, Ida-Virumaa plays a strategic, nationally important role in Estonian cohesion. Fifthly, the whole world is moving towards the implementation of renewable solutions at a revolutionary rate, as this is a proven alternative to fossil fuels. For a number of consecutive years, global investment volumes in renewable energy significantly exceed the injection of money into fossil fuels, not to mention installed production volumes. For ten consecutive years, new renewable energy capacities in Europe have accounted for more than half of the total installed capacity per year. In this respect, taking into account the total installed capacity of wind power, it has risen to a second place in the European Union after natural gas, but in the light of trends in growth, wind power is already taking the lead in this decade. It is noteworthy that five years ago, given the total installed capacity of wind power, the fifth-grade after natural gas, coal, hydropower and nuclear energy. Last year, renewable energy sources such as wind, sun and biomass were produced for the first time in the European Union, more electricity than solid fossil fuels combined. Only five years ago, this difference was more than double in favour of fossil fuels. Wind and solar energy solutions, as well as energy storage technology prices, continue to decline, making them an increasingly sensible alternative to non-renewable fuels, also in Estonia. In doing so, we still have a large number of unexploited renewable energy resources, particularly in the use of wind energy. Sixth, energy security from the previous point is also guaranteed without burning oil shale. Electricity systems are constantly changing, and the key words for the future are the extensive production of renewable energy, the dispersal of production units, local micro-producers and the so-called 'prosumers', or consumers, who also have the capacity to produce electricity themselves, the storage of energy on both micro and macroscales, cross-border connections, such as existing DCs with unimpaired total capacity in the north of the Gulf of Finland, to connect us to our northern neighbours, smarter and more dynamic management of consumption and production, etc. Future electricity systems and markets will certainly be more diverse and dynamic, which will also enable the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy. Seventhly, the large regional dependence of Ida-Virumaa on the oil shale industry can create excessive risks, as the viability of the oil shale sector and local jobs depend heavily on fluctuations in oil prices on the world market. This was demonstrated by the sharp fall in world oil prices at the beginning of 2016 and the resulting surge of redundancies and social instability in Ida-Viru County. An important part of the exit action plan from oil shale energy must be a social risk management plan in the event of unexpected events in any market situation and the realisation of a 'fair transition', in particular through the use of support mechanisms provided by the European Commission, where appropriate. People's well-being must be at the heart of the strategy. The eighth but not least important issue is the image of the state. Estonia is well known for using innovative and forward-looking solutions, but the polluting energy economy is becoming a stumbling block in the increasingly climate-conscious world. We are living at a time when almost all the world's leading technology companies are setting ambitious targets for the full deployment of renewable energy. The 'If Tesla were a country, it would be Estonia' motto campaign to attract Tesla's battery plant here was visually pleasant, but one look at the carbon intensity of our electricity production is enough to cross out Estonia's choices. Does Estonia need a strategy to guide the exit of oil shale energy? Estonia has several development plans that affect oil shale energy more directly or indirectly. These are: 'Energy Development Plan 2030' or ENMAK, 'Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050' or 'National Development Plan 2016 There is a national energy and climate plan that is largely based on the above-mentioned development plans and sets out our responsibilities to the European Commission for the next decade. Although the development plans show that the share of renewable energy in final consumption will increase in the coming years and CO2 emissions will decrease, none of these plans foresee a decline in oil shale energy or a decrease in oil shale mining capacity. Although the prospect is that electricity production will be reduced by direct burning of oil shale and oil shale oil as a liquid fuel will be more produced and used, I think it is important to stress that there is no significant difference between these activities in terms of climate and environmental footprints. An exit strategy from oil shale energy is necessary as a broader action plan covering, in addition to energy and oil shale oil production, social, economic, defence and other issues related to the decline of oil shale energy, which are not covered by the above-mentioned development plans. The so-called Põxit Strategy should be an action plan to assess and mitigate the risks associated with the exit of oil shale energy. Several Member States of the European Union have set a fixed-term target of abandoning coal in their national energy portfolio, based on energy policy, environmental, economic or other objectives. In this context, oil shale can be equated to coal because both are extracted, solid fossil fuels, despite the fact that the calorific value of oil shale is approximately three times lower than the calorific value of coal. This is also due to the high carbon intensity of the Estonian energy economy. A model for abandoning inefficient fuels could be taken from the next EU Member States. Belgium closed its last coal power plant in 2016. Austria plans to close the last two by 2025 at the latest. Our northern neighbours, the Finns, have set the target for 2019. By the way, last weekend in Helsinki, almost 10,000 people brought to the demonstration against climate change. The UK has a long tradition of using coal to abandon coal by 2025 at the latest, while the French are already in 2022. The Dutch and Portuguese have set the target for 2030. Sweden's ambition is to be the first developed fossil fuel-free industrial country in a few years' time if the last coal plant closes its boilers in 2022. One of the reasons for this public appeal is the request that, following the example of these developed European Union Member States mentioned above, we have a similar result in a political decision. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will conclude my speech with reference to the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report published two weeks ago, which is one of the loudest alarm bells of recent times. It is recalled that at the end of last year more than 15,000 scientists from around the world turned to the public to raise important acute environmental problems, including the need to curb man-made climate change. The IPCC report, however, will focus on the heart of the problem and clearly signal that the changes are unexpectedly rapid, and that the unintended global temperature increase could be reached in 12 years' time. This is a time frame that does not take into account any development plan drawn up in Estonia. The creation of an action plan for the exit of oil shale energy is therefore not a purely important national issue; it is an acute issue of global importance at national level. I therefore call on all the political groups of the Riigikogu, among other things, to take a well-founded position on climate and energy policy in the electoral programme, including the role of oil shale in this plan. Thank you for your time. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U4	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are questions. The length of the round of questions in terms of time is 20 minutes. Valeri Korb starts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U5	Thank you. Dear waitress, You state to society that there is a need to stop using oil shale, but you do not have a plan for replacing oil shale and the consequences of abandoning oil shale, either for society or for oil shale workers. Perhaps you'll comment on my point?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U6	Thank you for your question. Maybe I'll start with a bigger one. As the representative of the environmental community, as the representative of the Estonian Green Movement, I can say that the role of the environmental community is not to provide a comprehensive action plan to address such issues, but we can refer to important problems and global issues that we could solve here, these possible solutions. But this is a very important topic raising and opening up the strategy discussion, I believe, was the first step in resolving this important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U7	Thomas Paur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Last night's Eesti Päevaleht had an opinion article from Academician Anto Raukas, who was deeply concerned about such activities. I ask you whether these closing dates for blocks 2020, 2023 and 2030 are set in stone or whether there is a possibility of delaying them if things do not go as expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U9	Thank you for your question. The deadlines for closing blocks have been set in stone in this sense, that the hours of use of these blocks are over, that we cannot continue to use these blocks. So it is inevitable that the first blocks will be out of use in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U10	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U11	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have a very specific question. At first you said that this appeal was signed by some 1,300 or 1,700 people, I didn't exactly hear. Please tell us how these signatures were collected. What did it look like, was it on the street or somewhere in the store? How long did this campaign last? How many people among the people who signed them are from Ida-Virumaa? Did the people who signed see a text that clearly stated that the closure of oil shale energy would leave some 13,000 people working and then we all need to give up certain things in order to secure one entire county with jobs again? I'm interested in the technology side.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U12	Thank you for a very broad question. I'll try to start from the beginning. Yeah, that exact number is 1079 signatures. They were collected in the digital environment in the People's Initiative.ee. The signatures are digital. We can't identify exactly where the signed people live, we don't know if they're tallinians, giants or Eastern virumaans. As I move on to the other side of the question, I say that they are certainly familiar with this text. My sincere belief is that on that platform they were familiar with the text of the initiative, where these points of concern have been well-written. There are certainly many people working in the oil shale sector, either directly or indirectly. Directly there are about 5,000 jobs, with an indirect figure of around 10,000. There are alternatives. The rest of Estonia can manage to create jobs in Tallinn, Tartu, Põlva, Pärnu or anywhere. In fact, there are alternatives, there is a need for motivation to create reasonable parallel opportunities for job creation during a gradual transition. I might point out that we do not want to leave oil shale energy tomorrow or the day after tomorrow; this must happen gradually, so that it is not precisely those people who are currently working in the oil shale sector who are going to lose out. If this happens suddenly, it can inevitably cause social concerns. We understand that very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U13	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! The Special Committee on State Budget Control met with the Management Board of Eesti Energia yesterday to get an overview of the investments made by Eesti Energia. Our focus was a little different. The question was why it is necessary to finance these investments from the state budget, but that is another issue. After yesterday's meeting, the Executive Board of Eesti Energia announced that they were planning to set up a new oil plant for 200 million euros in 2021 and beyond. I am about to say my point: replacing incineration with valorisation makes perfect sense. Of course, I don't understand why it's necessary to put public money in it. But in contrast, mining for oil shale oil production is also a threat to the environment in itself, and burning oil also threatens the environment. What is your message to us today, is the decision of Eesti Energia to build a new oil plant worth 200 million euros right or wrong? What's your message to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U15	Thank you for raising this important issue. If you want a short answer, I will say that it is certainly the new investments in the fossil fuel sector that have been lost in the long term. It's our vision. Any investment in direct combustion and the oil industry is rather negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U16	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report, you repeatedly presented examples or facts that should prove that the Estonian footprint in the world is one of the largest in terms of the proportion of CO2 emissions. This was to be proved by the OECD report, which says that for one person we have one of the largest CO2 emissions in the world. But, of course, if we look at the population of Estonia, we can see that 1.3 million are not even comparable to the population of other countries, geographically around the same size. However, there is also a report from 2017 which proves that Estonia's air is the cleanest in terms of the proportion of microparticles in Europe. Do you see a contradiction in these two statements? After all, the second statement devalues very specifically the first statement that the Estonian footprint of pollution is also significant globally. The second quick question. The mortality rate in Põlva County is higher than in Ida-Virumaa. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U18	Thank you for your question. Firstly, the OECD report talks about the carbon footprint. When we talk about air purity, we usually talk about fine particles. These are two different things, we can't show them on the same scale, on the same graph. When we talk about CO2 emissions, Estonia is a dark brown or black stain on the world map, fine particles are regionally a "spot load." I don't know where those air purity analyses were done, maybe in the bogs, in Saaremaa, maybe in Ida-Virumaa. As a result, Estonia's air is certainly very clean due to climatic conditions and we are very happy to see that. I now come to the second part of the question: why in Põlva County, if I am not mistaken, is the mortality rate higher than in Ida-Viru County. I don't know why it's like that. There are certainly many socio-economic reasons behind this. However, I quoted a study by the University of Tartu and the Health Board that there is really a mortality or early mortality problem in Ida-Virumaa and one of the reasons for this is the oil shale sector. But I'm sure there's other agents there, and you can't identify it that accurately. At the same time, what the study has to take into account is that the oil shale sector has an important role to play in this, especially because of fine particles, volatile organics, carcinogenic volatile substances that are inhaled and cause lung disease, cardiovascular disease, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U19	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U20	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Estonia is not likely to reach the clean economy before it is likely to reach it, but it will not reach it until we have been able to replace oil shale electricity. It seems to me that any person who understands the severity of global climate tensions also understands that the time of electricity production, which is burdensome for the environment, is coming to an end in Estonia. Today, polluting electricity is very expensive because of carbon policy and is simply not competitive. It seems to me that going forward with this kind of energy would be like meeting a hovercraft with a steam locomotive. At first, it may seem kind of nostalgic to paddle here by yourself, but it is very quickly realized that others are still moving very quickly and in more quality conditions. I agree with you that instead of making such a long conversation, a decision is needed that Estonia will be free from oil shale electricity by 2040 or 2050 (if less ambitious). That decision has not yet been made. How do you feel about why?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U21	Thank you for that comment and for a good question. That's a good question, why? It's easy to look from this remote to you, to the ministry, to different regulations, but I don't know where to put my finger on why it hasn't been done. It's probably just a matter of motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U22	Eev Paasmäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U23	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! In truth, we all want to live in the pure nature and the environment. What is important is that we also want a job and a job, and it is good that we are paid enough for this work so that we can live. But the resources are the wealth of our country and our people. It is reasonable to use them in a purposeful and profitable way. However, you mentioned in your report that oil shale mining certainly has a regional impact, which is true. You mentioned in one or two sentences that there was a social risk mitigation plan. Social risks are true. Would you like to clarify the plan in a few words?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U24	Thank you for your question. Maybe it didn't work out well enough from my speech that this plan doesn't exist. Põxit's strategy should be the action plan that puts social, economic and, in my opinion, defence-related issues into all the so-called "compote" of this plan or framework, which will then be easy to deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U25	Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U26	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You have highlighted the role model countries, our good neighbours Finland and Sweden. In fact, they have another energy in their back pocket. Do you share this example in this sense, or what is your view? You didn't mention that kind of fuel or energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U27	Thank you for a very good question. Atomic Energy, nuclear energy is certainly a very positive sign. If we look at climate change, we can see that the carbon footprint is really very small in the use of nuclear energy. However, there are a number of constraints that may not allow investment to move so well into nuclear energy. Let's see the price. We are trying to be cost-effective in Estonia. If we compare nuclear energy, for example, with wind energy, solar energy or biomass energy, then we can see that nuclear energy, in terms of price, is currently unable to compete with them. In order to adopt nuclear energy, there must be a technological cost-effective leap to be invested in it in the long term. But this potential is definitely there, the discussion could be open. That's my answer. Nuclear energy is perhaps a longer-term answer to the question, but not an answer to tomorrow's question. For example, the issue of wind energy will certainly be resolved much faster than the issue of nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U28	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You spoke of Europe's actions to change the world's climate. Unfortunately, Europe emits 5% of the world's CO2 emissions, while Estonia emits 0.9% of the world's CO2 emissions. How do you see this fight? How our struggle and the improvement of our situation will change the world's climate because, unfortunately, we are part of a whole world where we are like a mosquito elephant... That may be a lot to say, but we're like a mosquito on the back of a good beef that doesn't care if we bite him or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U30	Thank you again for a very good question. A few years ago, representatives of the countries met in Paris and found a framework for solidarity on how to deal with this issue. Estonia has, of course, joined it. I'm talking about the Paris climate agreement. On this basis, we can say that we are not alone in this fight. However, discussions such as today could take place in all countries of the world. We need to deal with this globally, because this issue is global in general. We can start out in a narrower and regional way, but the climate issue is global. This is also the subject of the IPCC report that I mentioned in my speech. When we talk about what the world's largest polluters are doing, I will mention China, for example, where the impact of the green revolution or the green technology revolution on the world can be seen. They are now the ones who produce and install the most solar panels and invest the most in renewable technologies in the world. This is perhaps not what we would have expected from China ten years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U31	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'll start like this. Our colleague said that we will not reach the cleanest economies until we give up oil shale energy. On this point, I would like to mention that Europe still has the most polluting transport sector, followed by agriculture and only then is there somewhere energy. In your speech, you mentioned that oil shale energy is ruining the country's reputation in view of the polluting energy economy. Do you not take this question too one-sidedly in view of the country's reputation? We also have a very good knowledge-how about oil shale, in Ida-Virumaa we have the Põlevkivi Competence Centre, Estonia is internationally known for oil shale know-how, we have also participated in international projects, being a leading partner there. What about the reputation of this country and the oil shale?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U33	Thank you for your question. I also mentioned in my speech that according to the Ministry of the Environment, about 90% (it was 89 decimals) of carbon dioxide emissions come from the energy sector. This proportion across Europe is certainly lower; we are just so much dependent on oil shale. Here comes our pollution, Estonia. When we talk about reputation and oil shale know-how, we say that there must be countries in the world that can take advantage of this know-how, can and will. There are many countries where oil shale is. The largest oil shale reserves are in the United States. About 1% of oil shale reserves are in Estonia, yet we are the ones who use this relatively inefficient fuel, as I pointed out in my speech. Now the question is which countries we are exporting our know-how to. This is questionable because nowadays, green technologies are exported to know-how, it is much more expensive than oil shale know-how.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U34	Thank you very much to the waitress for her presentation and answers. Ladies and gentlemen, You will see that several members of the Riigikogu did not have the right question. I have a suggestion that, when you ask a question, you will still use it for one minute, a maximum of two, not five or six, which will lead to a longer answer. Secondly, we have a chance to negotiate later. A number of questions have already been used to express ideas and opinions. Maybe it'll be a good time later. I am saying this because we have three more rounds of questions ahead of us. Let's use time more rationally. In my opinion, the respondent used his time perfectly, for which I thank you once again. So, the presentation of the Environment Committee will be made by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee. The duration of the report is 15 minutes, you can ask questions for up to 20 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U35	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! I'll pick up where the previous performer Mihkel Dosage stopped. Indeed, last week, the UN Panel of Experts published a report which found that society and the global economy need unprecedented changes to prevent global climate loss, but that time is running out to prevent disaster. At current levels of greenhouse gas emissions, the climate could warm by 1.5 oC already by 2030. 'To have at least 50: 50 possibilities to stay within 1.5 degrees of the ceiling, the world must become 'carbon neutral' by 2050,' the climate experts added. This means that every tonne of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere must be balanced against a tonne of CO2 reduced. I would also stress that, due to the oil shale sector, the OECD has indeed turned us into the most carbon-intensive Member State and, according to the Global Green Economy Index, we are the last among the European countries. Unfortunately, such important issues in society and the media do not get too much attention, so I believe that the discussion and debate of Püxit here in the Riigikogu is extremely necessary and welcome. The reason is simple. We have spoken in this Chamber and also in the Committee on the Environment about the issues of the Estonian forest, about clear cutting. Of course, they stand out of the car window for everyone, they are seen every day, so emotion is many times greater, but what is happening somewhere deep underground in Ida-Viru County, which you can't see from the car window seems to be somewhere far away and someone else's problem. People have the ability to find 99 reasons why nothing can be done, but they do not find one way to resolve the situation. Personally, I have also said in the Committee on the Environment that I remain of the opinion that a specific date should be required for exiting oil shale electricity production. If there is a positive target, direction and decision, we will also be able to find the necessary mechanisms. But, of course, moving towards renewable energy must be a clear political objective, while effectively managing the risks associated with the oil shale sector. This topic has been rolled in this large hall and in the Riigikogu like hot potatoes, but of course for a reason, because this equation has three variables: economic issues, social issues and environmental issues. I'll give you an example. During the last few years, questions discussed either in the Committee on the Environment or in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu have been discussed five times, where oil shale has been the main topic. Different development plans: 'Adapting to climate change until 2030', aimed at increasing the readiness and capacity of the Estonian state, regional and local levels to adapt to the impacts of climate change, and 'Energy Economic Development Plan until 2030', with a view to achieving a 50% share of renewable energy in final consumption by then. Or, for example, the Riigikogu's decision 'Principles of Earthyard Policy 2050', adopted on 6 June 2017, or 'Principles of Climate Policy 2050', adopted on 5 April 2017, aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Estonia by 80% compared to 1999. In addition, we will take the Riigikogu's decision, which we ourselves have made, 'National Development Plan for the Use of Stone 2016 to 2030', which aims at realising the interest of the state, which is to ensure the efficient and sustainable use of oil shale as a national wealth and to ensure the sustainable development of the oil shale sector. We have dealt with this issue, but not as specifically as has been put on the table today by over a thousand signatories. But, of course, as a committee waitress, I have the honour, pleasure and duty to give an overview of this multi-hour marathon session, which took place on 5 June in the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, where this issue of Põxit was discussed. Estonian Green Movement, Estonian Renewable Energy Koda, Environmental Law Centre, University of Tartu, Round Table of Development Cooperation, Estonian Association of Mineral Resources, Eesti Energia AS, Viru Keemia Grupp, Estonian Trade Union Confederation, Estonian Association of Energy Workers' Trade Unions, Elering and, of course, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Social Affairs and Ministry of the Environment were present. The debate started almost with the same question as was asked by a good colleague and former Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Perhaps the question was why the Estonian state still does not have a coherent and concise analysis, an exit strategy for electricity generation, although this has been discussed for a long time. Timo Tatar of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications replied that the latest study on these topics was an analysis of the different scenarios carried out during the preparation of ENMAK. The assessment of the scenarios took into account environmental and economic impacts and security of supply. On the basis of these criteria, the preferred version proved to be a gradual exit from oil shale energy. Ado Lõhmus of the Ministry of the Environment added that the topic was on the table when preparing the oil shale development plan, but no analysis was made. The reason, he said, may have been that this is a very important lack of leadership, since the subject covers environmental, economic, regional and social sectors. Perhaps we can confirm that, since the subject is so complex and multifaceted, we have not yet carried out such an analysis and plan in Estonia. The House of Renewable Energy, of course, confirmed that the Põxit Action Plan was necessary because it was missed in this region years ago in times of large redundancies and, in addition, we are very close to the oil shale electricity crisis, as the price of the CO2 quota has risen. Eesti Energia, listening to the appeal, pointed out this simple message that if the proposal to initiate a risk assessment was presented as a next step in the collective appeal, they said that the presentation was already about solutions and measures. Eesti Energia supports that a risk assessment should first be drawn up on this issue. Meelis Eldermann Viru of the Chemistry Group pointed out that the oil shale sector accounts for 4 to 5% of Estonia's GDP and the discussion of Põxit is natural in every way. We need to look at the country's long-term objectives. In doing so, he stressed that balance should be maintained, not only on the basis of environmental aspects, but also on the social and economic side. Four interesting presentations were also heard by the Committee on the Environment. I'm going to sum up all these reports with two sentences. Hans Orru, Associate Professor of Environmental Health at the University of Tartu, presented the impact of the oil shale sector on the inhabitants of Ida-Virumaa. This has already been the subject of my fellow Members' questions. The relationship between pollution and the health of children who have lived in the environment for the last ten years was specifically examined. It was found that children with more benzene and formaldehyde in the air in their area of residence had a greater chance of developing rhinitis (in principle it is a cold), asthma attack, dry cough and higher value of the nitrogen dioxide exhaled. Annika Sepp, adviser to the Employment Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, next received the floor, who considered that employment was an important aspect of the subject under discussion. We need to think about how we can create new jobs in the region and prepare people who lose their jobs to get back into work. It was also one of the specific inputs why, after me, Anneki Teelahk, Head of Department of the unemployment fund Ida-Virumaa, comes here to talk about the remote control, explain the situation and also offer his solutions. The next two presentations were from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment. Timo Tatar stated in his speech that the idea that energy should move away from the use of oil shale, as expressed in the collective appeal, is nothing new. The same idea is borne by the adopted Energy Development Plan for 2030. It also stressed that the price of the CO2 quota had increased over the last few months and could therefore be expected to decrease faster than oil shale electricity production. Oil production will then remain the main use of oil shale and its volumes will depend specifically on oil consumption. While renewable energy currently accounts for 29% of final consumption, the energy economic development plan will target 50%. Thus, many signs indicate that the exit of oil shale energy is already taking place. This can only be achieved if it is done gradually and the labour market and industry can adapt. He stressed that when acting hastily and thoughtlessly, problems would arise and that there might be insufficient capacity and readiness to solve them. Ado Lõhmus of the Ministry of the Environment said (I will be brief) that according to the national development plan of oil shale, oil shale must be the main raw material for electricity production in Estonia for at least the next 15 years. In line with the principle of sustainable development, the application of the best available technology is a more effective means of improving the environmental performance of production. Of course, as in this Chamber, the first question put by Mr Valeri Korb, a longtime member of the Committee on the Environment, was asked by a good colleague in the Commission, Mr Mälberg, that this is an important issue, but what would be the energy sources that would enable us to maintain current consumption levels. I believe that there are few people who say that this is the wrong step, but there is a question of what is a real alternative to electricity production. The representative of the House for Renewable Energy explained that, under today's circumstances, there is no problem of covering consumption needs by imports, but the potential and opportunity to produce energy from renewable sources, thereby providing added value to society. Estonia's domestic consumption of electricity is relatively low, given that we do not have a very large-scale industry. The sea wind parks currently under development, which are with modern technology, are able to cover most of Estonia's electricity needs. Of course, at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, this question became very important, so how high should the price of the CO2 quota finally rise, so that it would no longer be economically meaningful for Estonia to produce oil shale electricity. It is known that 1.2 tonnes of CO2 will be generated by producing one megawatt-hour of electricity and that the price of CO2 per tonne is currently around EUR 20. If you add the cost of oil shale to it, the price of electricity will be 40 to 50 euros. Is that possible? Margus Vals, who represented Eesti Energia, said as an example that at the end of 2006 Eesti Energia produced electricity even when the price of CO2 tonnes was 30 euros. Then they asked about the specific blocks to be closed. Eesti Energia was asked to specify when and how the following specific oil shale electricity blocks would be closed. In short, the answer is that, according to the Industrial Emissions Directives, the power plant block has a working time until 2023 or 17500 hours. Indeed, there is a possibility that some blocks will be able to complete their working hours as early as next year. The Committee on the Environment asked for an opinion from two other committees. As I was saying, it's a three-party equation. We asked for an opinion on the referral from the Committee of Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, which replied that they discussed the collective approach in a public session on 11 September, involving representatives of the state and local government concerned and oil shale companies, in addition to the representatives of the initiators of the appeal. A short one-phrase summary, then decided: following the hearing of all parties, the Committee on Economic Affairs reached a unanimous conclusion that a separate strategy for exiting oil shale energy was not needed and the proposal was not supported. The same appeal was discussed by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu on 10 September 2018. In the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, the issue raised is important and the concerns of the applicants are justified and different aspects need to be considered in order to address the problems. The Commission focused its discussion on employment and health issues in particular, as the Committee on Social Affairs lacks competence in other areas. According to the Commission, Ida-Virumaa is a sensitive area and the Commission sees the risks that it could significantly worsen the unemployment situation. This is an already complex area, and it would be irresponsible to create more tension there. Progress takes place in every sector and everywhere, and dealing with oil shale will not disappear in 30 years' time. The shale sector will not disappear, but will become cleaner. In short, the conscience of the Committee on the Environment was also ratted out that the Committee on the Environment must further discuss collective redress, given the effects in different areas. That's what we've done. I would like to stress that this is why we have a fourth presentation by Tarmo Soomere, President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, as on today's agenda. He answers these questions, which are possible alternatives and how to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U36	The round of questions will be opened by Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U37	Thank you. I wanted to ask the previous speaker, because he told us that no development plan for Estonia would solve the problem of a tangible climate disaster. He read that fossil fuels must be abandoned quickly. What, then, does the Committee on the Environment offer as an incentive for the people? He said there was a question of incentives. What do you offer, what standard of living, what alternatives, what kind of future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U38	Thank you. A good questioner certainly knows as a professional Parliament wolves, as you call yourself, Jürgen, that on behalf of the Committee on the Environment I cannot make promises here. On this side, the Committee on the Environment did not discuss this issue. It is clear, however, that when we talk about people's quality of life and their daily standard of living, no one is willing to give them up, so I suggest that we ask these questions from the next rapporteur who has been very involved in this area. He was also literally on the front line when, years ago, there was a lay-off in the field. However, as far as the first half of the question is concerned, it is indeed not possible to read the date or date directly from these five national development plans, as well as from the government's decision, which was also referred to by a good colleague, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, when, for example, we could leave oil shale electricity production, to work in this direction. In a sense, we believe that all of this will happen by itself. Now we need to answer the question of whether we want to speed this process up, slow it down or really not deal with it at all. I believe that it would indeed be reasonable to set this date and target and to start working in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U39	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, I would like to say that it is great that another such collective appeal has reached the grand Chamber of the Riigikogu and the subject is discussed not only by one commission or by some committees, but all good fellows can both listen and ask. But now the question. You presented a very thorough discussion of the Commission. But what do you, as the chairman of the committee, and yourself, do much about this and also the person with the education in this area personally feel about it? How should we proceed? I understand you're a Commission waitress, but suddenly you're opening up your personal position a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U41	Thank you. In fact, it was also very clear in the Commission's debate that there is no single vision or action plan. A good child can have several names, we can call it a strategy or a working document, because for many, a word like Püx can be frightening. At the same time, it has to be said that a very talented name has been found in terms of human consciousness and discussion. But it is clear, also by looking at the price of CO2, that Põx, as such, is already happening. Ultimately, if the price of electricity in the last ten days has still been around EUR 50 in oil shale for nine days, then it is clear that if the price of CO2 per tonne, which is at EUR 20, increases further, it is simply not possible to continue production in this case. The question then is whether we have an action plan at that point in time, so that it is clear what steps should be taken in the case of redundancies or how people working in the sector should be proactively covered by further training and retraining, or what are the positive programmes for reviving the economy of Ida-Viru County and, in particular, with regard to business programmes, so that there is no situation such as, in fact, years ago, when the government was travelling quickly and exceptionally to Ida-Virumaa to hold a government meeting. No matter what we call this action plan paper or document, be it Püx, be it a development plan, be it a strategy, be it a positive programme for Ida-Virumaa, in fact, I believe that such a specific document would be necessary if we did not find ourselves in a situation where, due to the high price of CO2, the power generation capacity of Eesti Energia will be shut down, but we do not have an action plan and we will, figuratively, read the next morning in the paper that Eesti Energia started to concentrate people for example. Preventive action is very important; it should start today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U42	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U43	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm asking as a teacher because I've been doing this job my whole life, and I'm probably gonna keep doing it. I know you go to school a lot. Look at an old man like me, he's used to the electricity coming from oil shale and the days of his life coming and coming. But if you're in front of the class, there's little time, and they're asking, "What's the deal with oil shale electricity?" How would you respond to the basics? Maybe I'll get a spy on how to talk to school someday.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U44	I really need to choose words, because if you pass on these words as a teacher to young Estonian citizens, then the wrong thoughts should not remain. In short, if we look at the pollution burden in Estonia, we will see that 80% of the pollution comes from the oil shale industry. This is clearly our most important, most difficult and most complex environmental issue. But if we look to a distant future, for example, in 50 or 100 years, it is clear that what is actually happening underground, whether these oil shale mines are causing damage to the aquifers or, specifically, this pollution, I know that a waitress will come and say that it is a crime against humanity. But, of course, the side that has been said very much in this Chamber is also correct, that no human wants to change his standard of living. This is the problem of Estonian society, it is the problem of Ida-Virumaa. As I said, this equation does indeed have at least three unknowns, these are social issues, economic issues and environmental issues. But if we still want to continue to exist as a species like man on this earth and not join 99.9% of species that have died out, then we need to resolve such environmental issues, even if they seem to us today very difficult, very difficult and very impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U45	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I understood that the Committee on Economic Affairs took a kind of clear view that there was no need for a strategy such as that proposed by the initiators in this petition. What is the position of the Committee on the Environment? You, as well as the previous waitress, actually referred to a large number of strategy papers that we have together in the field. In my opinion, Estonia's problem is often that there are many of these strategy papers, that they are not always respected, that they are in conflict with each other. You have repeatedly said that this final date should be fixed so that some kind of action plan can be drawn up starting with it. Tell us what you think that date should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U47	Thank you. First of all, there is the moment when I can say that I cannot speak on behalf of the whole Committee on the Environment. Due to the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Committee on the Environment will meet once again after the discussion of the large hall in order to make its decision as precise and as clear as possible. Indeed, it must be acknowledged that the Committee on Economic Affairs has made its decision very strongly on the economic side. Personally, yes, indeed, I am convinced that, in this area concerning the exit of oil shale electricity from production, one stake should be laid to the ground, which would then be the starting point. Whether this number is 2030, if we are ambitious, or 2040, I think it is a point of discussion, but it is clear that this is not the decision of the Committee on the Environment at the moment in this form. I believe that this could also be one of the issues in the parliamentary elections on 3 March, if the people and citizens of Estonia can give an assessment of the direction in which the Estonian state should move, which are the values that are the environmental issues we are looking at, and how we will see the Estonian state in 10, 20, 30 and 100 years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U48	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U49	Thank you. During more than ten years of my stay in the Riigikogu, I have repeatedly taken part in discussions on energy, and the security threat has always been a key word in this equation. Tonight, unfortunately or luckily, the word has not sounded here once more. In terms of security threats, have there been significant changes in our positive direction, or have we been able to strengthen ourselves on these issues and mitigate these threats? In the Committee on the Environment, was this aspect in the debate and should we discuss it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U50	Thank you. Having also participated in previous discussions on energy, both here in the Riigikogu and outside it, it must be acknowledged that the security threat has indeed always been one aspect. It can certainly be said that the situation has improved several times compared to the time you started your Member's career ten years ago, as you said. During this time Estonia is connected to the Nordic network, we are on the one hand on the Nord Pool electricity market, where there are Finland, Sweden and Norway as well as Estonia, on the other hand we are building similar connections in the south direction, i.e. towards Latvia. Perhaps this isolation, which was still 10 to 15 years ago, has changed today and it will certainly strengthen our energy security. I believe that this is also one of the reasons why this issue was not even addressed in particular in the debate on this approach to Põxit in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U51	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U52	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! When aspects of the oil shale industry were opened to fineness in the Committee on Economic Affairs, how has it happened that neither the Committee on the Environment nor the previous speakers wanted or wanted to draw conclusions from it, but that same scheme comes out? You don't have a goal already set, and right now you just have to put it in four? I will give you an example of the hunting of waterbirds when you were aware that ornithologists had provided you with misleading information, but the aim was still to knock this thing off. This isn't more of a desire than a desire to acquire knowledge, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U53	Thank you. If you look at the approved order of business of our board, you will see that there is no knocking like this, as described by you. This debate is specifically designed to draw attention to it, to seek consensus in society and to create the understanding that oil shale energy and oil shale pollution in Estonia are important and essential issues that need to be resolved. On the other hand, indeed, it must be acknowledged that the Committee on Economic Affairs, unlike the other committees which looked at the three parts of the equation, was purely economic. From an economic perspective, it is certainly possible to say that there is no reason to look at this issue from an environmental or social security perspective. However, having also read the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I can say that the discussions also included the fact that they are convinced that due to the price of CO2, oil shale electricity will naturally die out of production over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U54	Aivar Surva.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There has really been a lot of talk about this and you also confirmed in your report that most of the pollution comes from Ida-Virumaa in Estonia. The problems there are quite serious and long known. At the same time, it is also known that most of the environmental charges we collect in the same way from Ida-Viru County. In order to solve these problems, at least in terms of the future, there should be quite a lot of financial resources. Has there been any discussion in the Commission that perhaps most of the resources collected could be directed towards solving the problems of Ida-Viru and our power generation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U56	Thank you, Mr. Surva! I seriously congratulate you on this question. In fact, the same question is reaching the table of the Committee on the Environment and also here in the grand hall of the Riigikogu. This is the law on resource charges and it is indeed possible to make these changes there. All of us who are in and outside this Chamber today have the opportunity to make amendments, to take part in this debate. Indeed, the discussion of whether resource charges should be directed back to Ida-Virumaa or whether it is possible to finance environmental projects, whether in Saaremaa, Hiiumaa or anywhere else in Estonia, is decades long. But once again, during this discussion, we will be able to shift this pole together here in the coming weeks. This question will come to the table, and I am glad you brought it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U57	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. The next presentation is made by Anneki Teelahk, Head of Department of the unemployment fund Ida-Virumaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am Anneki Teelahk and I work as head of the Ida-Virumaa Department of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. This is the job I have been doing since 2011, before which I worked for 12 years as the Human Resources Manager of Eesti Põlevkivi. That's probably one of the reasons I've been invited here today. Philosophically, I can say that Püxit started in 1999 when I went to work in Eesti Põlevkivi. Then there were 7,500 employees. When I left there, there were 3,000 employees. So actually, this process has been going on for a long time. When I took up this job at the unemployment fund in 2011, there was a closure of Viru mine and Aidu's career. After that, further redundancies took place, from 2016 to 2017. I will be very brief and I will talk about the labour market situation in Ida-Virumaa, because it will change all the time. Unfortunately, if I am at a conference from time to time, where someone from Tallinn has come to perform, who says that the unemployment rate in Ida-Viru County is 11 - sometimes, if it is a very respectable person, I think I am not going to say that it is actually 8%. That is why I will be very brief about this and PowerPoint will not kill you. I consider myself a hardened practitioner, and I want to share what I have been through with my colleagues in practical life, and perhaps I will also talk about some of the things that should not be done. I'm waiting for your questions. Well, now we really do have an 8% unemployment rate. Some time before the large concentration, Ida-Viru County achieved that it was not the last in terms of unemployment. Now we're not the last ones on this train, but the last ones. If we had the last major redundancies, unfortunately or fortunately, at the same time, because it is always a challenge, it was actually the beginning of the work capacity reform. Ida-Virumaa encountered two so-called major challenges. If all over Estonia the unemployment fund departments had problems with the topics of work capacity reform, new clients, new tasks and new challenges, then we had the so-called two in one. You can see from this slide that we have four unemployment offices. Very often, when people from Tallinn come to Ida-Virumaa, they say that I went to Narva, I know everything about Ida-Virumaa, I am an expert in Ida-Virumaa. Narva is Narva, and the labour market is different there. Jõhvi is Jõhvi, Kiviõli is Kiviõli, Sillamäe is Sillamäe and Isaac is Isaac. They're quite specific. Let's see how the unemployment rate has fallen over these five years. Five years ago, it was 13.4%. You see, the fall to 9% occurred just before the big redundancies, before Nitrofert, Eesti Energia mines and VKG began to concentrate in the oil shale sector. Then it rose to 11.3%. It was known that if some major redundancies were to come, the unemployment rate would, of course, rise rapidly. I'll talk about the measures later. Another thing that has characterised Ida-Viru County is the number of long-term unemployed. If we look at the number of unemployed versus the number of long-term unemployed, we can see that five years ago, there were long-term unemployed - these are people who have been in the unemployment fund for at least a year and who have not worked 7,000 and now have 2,000. But actually, it means working everyday with people who may have thought they'd never get a job again. That's what we do every day. Now I'm talking about the share of clients in Ida-Virumaa. Five years ago, these people weren't even in our sights, and now they're part of our new clients. It is once again a unique customer sector, they need their own approach, but the good thing is that a lot of people have found their own applications and new services, and maybe they can think more about their own health. All right, number of jobs. When I came to work for the unemployment fund seven years ago, my credo was that we were going to work with employers. If there is no cooperation with employers, there is no employment. There's no point in just saying that we're sitting here counseling people enormously. And then what? Five years ago, there were about 400 jobs. In fact, seven years ago, when I came to the unemployment fund, my predecessor said what's wrong with coming to the next person, that now there are 100 jobs in Ida-Viru County. There's a thousand jobs now. But you can talk about what these jobs are like later. What are the advantages of the labour market in Ida-Virumaa? All the time when we meet representatives of industrial parks or attract potential investors to come to Ida-Virumaa, we are saying that, of course, we also have a structural shortage of labour, but we still have a great deal of experience for the employer, we have experienced specialists with technical education. It hurts a little to say that oil shale competence is not as valuable as, say, green competence. I've eaten several poodles of salt with mountain engineers, and I know that engineering competence is very valuable. The question is, if the situation on the labour market changes, how can we value this competence and build something else on it? We have colleges of TalTech and University of Tartu, Ida-Virumaa Vocational Education Centre in three places of study and Tallinn Health College's structural unit. What are the labour market problems in Ida-Viru County or, I would say, challenges? Last week, my colleagues and I thought about what we would say about a person who has little knowledge of the Estonian language and who does not have any digital skills. We found it to be a client with training potential. So we say you have training potential. The subject of ageing education came up just when there was a lay-off in Nitroferd. I remember emotional encounters with people and unions. One employee said, 'Now, at the konchi, the technician v 76-om godu. Takoje osoboje bõlo obrazovanije, takoje osoboje. ' Yes, it was once a very special profession that he learned, but unfortunately there is nothing to do with it today. But you can't point the finger at that, you see, it's not valuable what you learned, but it's gotta be said that it's some kind of base, something can be built on it, this page that was, this is the last page, but now we're going on. Indeed, people also have insufficient skills and lack of mobility. Mobileity is now beginning to grow, but you know how difficult it was to tell you five years ago that in fact, Kiviõli can also work at Kohtla-Järve, that Jõhvi or Narva can also work from Sillamäe or vice versa, because it is 25 kilometers. They're all such long-jumped things. There are still quite a number of these people, too, with long-term unemployment. Estonian language and Estonian language learning are exactly one of our challenges. At the moment, on the 11th day, I took out data that there are 957 vacancies and 644 of them are not needed for Estonian language skills. Yeah, they're very different jobs. This slide also shows where the sector has jobs that do not have language requirements. When we talk predicamentally about Põxitis, it must be said that most jobs in the oil shale sector are those where Estonian language skills are not required, but when this exit takes place, it is certainly one of the requirements. Where does the Estonian language need to be mastered? There's a slide like this. We have worked very hard on this subject. This slide shows how Estonian language skills have improved. Today, the Unemployment Insurance Fund also has the opportunity to teach people, both employed and unemployed, and motivation has increased. In fact, people see that language skills are needed. We work for this every day. In fact, in May we had 16 other training partners who offered to teach the Estonian language. We raise these partners ourselves. I'm the kind of person that when I see a problem, I look in the mirror at what I can do. And then I'll go to the training companies, say, you know, we really need to learn Estonian, please offer it. Do not offer floristics and I do not know what is necessary at all, but offer what is needed in the market. They say it's okay, but where do we get the teachers? I say that there are teachers elsewhere in Estonia, bring them here. Sometimes it feels like people just need to be mutilated. We have a lot of services. Here's a slide about what we're offering people. We support employers. It's written in the curfew that we pay for job creation support. This project is over, but a new one is coming. It also sets out the objectives of job creation support. Last time, 645 jobs were created and in very different spheres. But this job is very, very big. The Government of the Republic adopted this decision in... Was it 2016? This took place in May and, in June, journalists called to say how they did not exist, a decision has long been taken as to why these jobs have not already existed. Now, all these things are a long one. It takes time for an employer to find 20 people and retrain them. Here's another slide. Last year, people with reduced working capacity have also been employed and in very different positions. It is again a myth that people with reduced working capacity are all the same, that they all have the same problems. Very many people are very motivated to work, including people with very good skills. In cooperation with employers, we have found jobs for many people. So, EGF measures, actions under the European Globalisation Fund. When the last layoff was, the Ministry of Social Affairs and I were wondering what else we could do in Ida-Virumaa. Our idea was that when big redundancies come, we should react very quickly so that people do not get out of work for a long time. Another principle: the measures that we are going to take for people must be active measures to ensure that people do not sit at home and receive any support, but that they can complete their qualifications and enter education and receive grants that will help them further. I spoke really fast. Now I will speak a few words about what happened during my Estonian period of Oliver. In 1999, when I went to work there, the Tammik mine was already closed in the spring, the next spring was the closure of the Sompa mine, and then came straight from Sirgala's career, Kohtla's mine, Ahtme mine, went in and out like this, and finally came Viru and Aidu. What was the experience like? Still, if any such decision was made, it was made at least a year earlier. Each area was responsible and thought about exactly what needs to be done. I was the person who dealt with people, and not alone, but with my team. We had employment committees for over two weeks. We wanted people who are not yet in retirement to be assigned to work in other companies. But these other companies were not very motivated to employ people such as the Sompa mine. Then the goal was that Estonia would have to take 100 people and Viru would have to take so much again. Then we took these lists and looked with the unions at every employee, every family, and so on for over two weeks. It was a day-to-day job. It is not a joyous activity, but the heart is pleased that it could be done very focusedly and everything could be taken into account. Thank you. I understand my time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U59	Thank you so much for your presentation. I'm glad you've also taken into account our time constraints. It didn't diminish the value of your report. Please, Küllik's Hatter, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U60	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you for your presentation, thank you for your realistic picture. If you go to Ida-Virumaa and meet entrepreneurs, one of the problems they bring out is that the governments have taken tens of millions of money into the region under the Ida-Viru programme, but the problem they think is that this money has been scattered and cannot give you such a big effect that Ida-Virumaa would actually carry on. Can you give positive examples of high-impact government injections so that you can say that it has certainly brought positive development to Ida-Virumaa and gives us hope about Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U61	Thank you for your question. I say immediately as a hardened practitioner that there is no wand, there is no measure to help with all the troubles. It's the same job creation support. It wasn't a money spill. We talked very carefully to the employers. As a result, one company brought its production from Finland to Kohtla-Järve and had quite a number of enlarged companies. I remember one in Narva. The company actually said that it had always thought about enlargement, but it was an incentive. This is state support, but we also saw that the companies that had to employ 20 people had the main problem of not being able to find people. Maybe it's cruel to say what I'm about to say, but I'm a long-term employee. You hear a lot, and I hear the bragging that there's no one anywhere to be found, no employees to be found. My question is always where you were looking. Sometimes I ask if they went to the unemployment fund. The answer is no, the unemployment fund was last year and nobody was found there. Then I always say, you know, in Ida-Viru County, 200 new clients come in every week and about the same number of people get a job. There's no way all those people who get laid off are gonna be out of work. For example, Eesti Energia will also be step by step with such people. A very good friend of mine, middle-level leader, was also laid off. I told the industrial park, you know, a good person like that is available. It's true, yes, that there are no people to get, but it's not true. We can actually help. Personnel planning should be carried out, in today's volatile and turbulence world, it is very difficult, but many do not think about who they need tomorrow. Thanks to this support, we were able to start talking to employers about what their thoughts were, because then we can train people for them and perhaps offer them what they could not even foresee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U62	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I'm gonna grab the word. You said here that we often don't think about who we need in the labour market tomorrow. You're a very experienced and well-analysed lady. How do you assess the current capacity of vocational education, professional higher education and universities to provide curricula and training that will provide people with employment, retraining opportunities in the future, etc.? Would you make such a small assessment and also predict whether something is missing and exactly what is missing, for example, in these schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U64	Yes, I have been a member of the professional council of energy, mining and chemical industries in the Chamber of Occupations for more than ten years, I have also been a member of the council of the Vocational Education Centre for more than ten years and I have been well acquainted with the activities of Virumaa College of Tallinn University of Technology, I have lectured there and our cooperation is very close. That is why this feedback is available. We also currently have OSA sector studies on what these jobs are for the future, and this will be taken very much into account by the College of TalTech Virumaa. In fact, when the engineers finish it, they go like hot buns, they go to businesses, of course. But once again, it is true, but not the full message from employers that they are unable to find employees. If they want a very specific employee, they have to be trained at the workplace anyway. It is not possible to teach employees for every job, just for every employer. When a person graduates from Tallinn University of Technology, I don't know, as an energetician, he goes to work in the company and if he chooses, say, one direction, he learns it at work. It's like that. I'm positive, though.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U65	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very interesting presentation and thank you very much for the important work you are doing in Ida-Virumaa. When the Social Committee discussed this issue, it was pointed out that people with higher than average wages and specific skills work in the field of energy in Ida-Virumaa. You also called them clients with training potential when they enter the labour market. I am interested in what skills you have developed for these people when they are on the labour market, and in which sectors people from the energy sector mostly go to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U67	Thank you. First of all, when we get together with the client, we assess the individual training needs of each client. In fact, when it comes to those who have left the energy sector, let us be honest, those who have not perhaps developed in the company always leave. When we talk about Eesti Energia or VKG, they contribute very much to training, it is not worth underestimating at all, and there is a great deal of commitment to development. Much has also come to the digital world in the manufacturing industry. But when a person comes to us, one thing is the ability to speak Estonian. If a person has a higher education degree, he or she is looking for a professional position. There are also certain employers in Ida-Virumaa who are able to work as middle manager or manager, no matter, for example, in Narva there is Fortaco or some other and there are also companies in the Port of Sillamäe. Yeah, sure. My client and I will assess what he needs. Very often, he is an engineer, for example, but he needs some kind of further training to work in the timber industry. Very often digital skills are needed, AutoCAD, English skills are also needed. We value it together with our client, and the client has a choice. It's not like we say. Of course, we'll show him his training potential and the client can choose for himself. This once again depends, indeed, on what jobs are then and what jobs will be in the future. My client and I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U68	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for a beautiful, clear, logical and real-life presentation! After all, all Estonian governments who have regained independence have tried to deal with Ida-Virumaa. There have been a number of action programmes and operational programmes, one more comprehensive than the other. In drawing up these action plans and implementation programmes, has the contact with what is actually happening in Ida-Virumaa been strong enough, either through the unemployment fund or through other organisations? Is it the real knowledge of the facts that has been taken into account, or have they, unfortunately, remained a long way from Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U70	Thank you. It's getting better and better. There's been a lot of contact with me lately, not because I really want to stick myself somewhere, but I'm 55 years old, and now it's time to start talking about your experience, where you've made mistakes and where you've done something. I'm sure we still have people like Teet Kuusmik, head of industrial parks. So if we do something, if we agree on something, it's important here what this positive message is for Ida-Virumaa. We actually do these things together. Looking at Ida-Viru County, it is clear that we somehow understand that the exit of oil shale energy must be avoided, we all understand it, but now the question is how to do it, with which schedule and what to find for people. Sometimes it feels like what you're building behind that plank in that Baskin story. There are no doubts, but there are doubts, from time to time. But since I've been working with men like this for 12 years, I usually turn to a person and say that's not the case. It is better now, of course, but of course more could be done. As I said at the beginning, it is, of course, nice to go to Narva for a walk on the promenade, but I am talking about the people who we've been here, the people who have been there, the people who have been living and who are not going anywhere. We're always open.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U71	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! By joining the compliments for the presentation, I have a related social issue. How do you comment on the first rapporteur, Mr. Dosage, that the health performance of Eastern virulans is significantly lower than the Estonian average and probably caused by oil shale pollution? Is this a continuing problem, or is it rather a problem with past levels of pollution, or is long-term unemployment, for example, in itself, behind these poor health indicators? What are these reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U73	Thank you. Of course, I'm not a doctor, I'm not a hiromant or a card maid, I can't predict. I myself think I'm a very healthy person, although I've been living in Ida-Virumaa all along, but maybe I'm glowing, I can't say. While I was working in Eesti Põlevkivi, one of the parts of my work was the drafting and carrying out of the health insurance procurement of employees and communicating with their partners. When medical doctors were spoken to, they often said that miners were healthy but had a bad fucking way of life. Smoking, obesity and all those things that are elsewhere are also in Ida-Virumaa. I'm sure all these effects are, but I can't tell you where these effects are the biggest. Of course, long-term unemployment. We have seen that when a person gets a job, even a person with a loss of ability to work, with whom the work is longer, and when he finally gets a job, perhaps over long years, when the family and the gender have always told him that he is still so sick that be at home, but when he finally gets a job, he writes to his consultant that thanks for that, he feels much better. That's it. I can't tell you how to estimate it. It has to be investigated. You know we have uranium extracted, we have radon, and we have a hundred troubles, but we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U74	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U75	Thank you, good speaker! Thank you, Madam waitress, for this presentation, which I found encouraging to all those who are a little sceptical about everything concerning the exit of oil shale electricity from production. In the future, we will probably think about polluting oil shale electricity in the same way as we are now thinking about the time that the sewer water was released into the river or the garden corner. Right now, no one can imagine dealing with nature that way. The same is true of oil shale electricity, which now, as has already been pointed out repeatedly here, is responsible for the lion's share of pollution and waste in Estonia. Climate change concerns in the world are very serious and the attitude towards carbon emissions is only tightened year by year, which means that oil shale electricity is not already competitive. By the time we're free of oil shale electricity, it's wise to get ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U76	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U77	You referred in your report to 1999, which is about 20 years ago. Will 20 years' notice of this decision be enough to enable jobs in Ida-Virumaa to be reorganized and redesigned?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U78	Thank you. You can't really project the past, because change is always accelerating. However, I can say that technology has changed so much throughout this period and that jobs are indeed step by step come to us. We see among our clients that five years ago people who wanted to become entrepreneurs were not very in Ida-Virumaa, were not motivated, people wanted to work in a large company. So far, there are so many of these people. I don't know if 20 years is enough. When I came here, I thought about Põxit all the time, because these are my people, believe me, these oil shale people are my people, and Põxit shouldn't be an exit, as we say in Ida-Viru County, but it must be a transformation, as the mountain men and energetics say. Sure, I'm not an expert at that. It makes my heart a little calmer that we really need to think about these people. However, if today I ask customers who want to go to work in Eesti Energia or VKG, everyone will. That's it. A cleaning worker or a contractor receives EUR 2 000.3000 and we do not have an alternative, another such skilled worker's position. We all understand that people have some kind of loan leases, they have their whole lives here. Ida-Viru County must not run empty, houses must not be left empty and all of this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know, but that would be a little easier than if it were tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U79	Eev Paasmäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! My dear Anneki, it was very nice listening to you here today! I know how effective you work on the ground in cooperation with employers, local government and the whole target group. Obviously, as a result, these percentages are still moving in a more positive direction. We're talking about unemployment, but why don't you tell me where we have such a shortage that we can't find a person to work. Is that what it is and what it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U81	Thank you. I guess they're specific skilled workers. But maybe it's not that big a problem. Here again, the biggest problem is that the employer should tell us some time in advance. Usually, training takes time, it is not known whether it is possible to teach these people very quickly and with our trainers at our local vocational training centre. Yes, there are certain skilled workers, such as CNC-ping operators, who are always more needed than they are, and they need to be taught, but of course there is also a need for specific drivers. In industry, you need managers with certain specifics. Well, I guess it's just that sometimes this list of skills is made so long, but then you start telling me what it takes and if you could teach me. This is the kind of continuous work with employers. Of course, there's always someone missing. Of course, the most difficult is for people who do not have basic education, language skills or experience. We have the most work to do with them, and the employer does not want to employ such a person; he still wants somebody with basic skills.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U82	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U83	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress, thank you very much for this extremely complex presentation. You make it look like things are really simple and concrete and that's how it's supposed to be. I think that you, as a person, are one of the brightest and most inspiring people in the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund system, who very well sees these challenges of the future and not only Ida-Virumaa, but also in the context of the transformational labour market in Estonia as a whole. But I'm asking about the industrial areas of Ida-Viru. We have only recently adopted a legislative amendment in the Riigikogu, which allows electricity to be sold at a significantly lower price, i.e. without network charges, within a six-kilometer radius of the power generating device. What labour needs and trends do you see in the industrial areas of Ida-Viru, near the Narva power plant? Energy-intensive production is known to be looking for a place, such as server parks. Are there people with such a labour profile in Ida-Virus and what programs have you already planned to find and train them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U84	Thank you. As far as IT is concerned, of course IT people are missing everywhere, but fortunately they are taught at our VET centre. TalTech Virumaa College teaches applied information technology and in Narva College of the University of Tartu also teaches information technology. So if there was this theme here that we're building a new IT college, maybe we'd watch that we have two colleges where they teach this subject, and they could be expanded. Of course, that should certainly be the case. But I believe that if these things become more real, there will be more cooperation with universities and there could be more in-service training. Of course, I already know that there are problems in the IT field, but S.H.A.R.K Animationem is also Narva's company, and when we started talking about support for job creation in Ida-Virumaa Narva, a person from Tallinn asked me that, Anneki, you did not get the wrong idea of whether there was a multimedia company in Narva. It's like Narva's a different town, there can't be such things. In fact, yes, IT is a problem, as elsewhere, but at the same time we have colleges and, of course, there are other things concerning, for example, the Port of Sillamäe or Narva Primatek, which is a new company, a producer of powder paints. Actually, we're already training people with the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U85	Anneki Teapahk, thank you! The members of the Riigikogu can no longer ask questions because the time was over over a minute ago. Since they can't ask, you can't answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U86	Thank you, and you can do it for everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U87	The next rapporteur is Tarmo Soomere, President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U88	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will continue from the same place as Mihkel Annus and Rainer Vakra brought before you. I will start by saying that things are not very good with the environment, as the colours on this chart say. Looking over the script, it appears from the colours that the review of the megatrends made by the European Environment Agency in 2015 shows only a few aspects of a likely improvement over a period of 5 to 10 years and that the prospects for 20 or more years are either contradictory or we have to consider that things can get worse. The use of oil shale or, if used as a modern synonym, the release of oil shale energy would contribute to breaking the negative trend in several aspects. The quality of water would improve for both surface water, groundwater and seawater, the risks involved would be reduced, which would contribute to reducing air pollution, by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, also by leaving fossil fuels a little bit alone, perhaps also by reducing industrial pollution. To be clear, the Earth as a whole has been commuting for the last about a million years in a rather small cycle of relatively low temperatures and relatively low ocean water levels, as the bottom left picture shows, playing pingpong with itself. Right now, we've broken out of this cycle. You don't have to be proud of that. Of course, the Earth doesn't boil, but it can warm up by 6 to 8 degrees, compared to the maximum heat cycles of the last million years. It would be good if we didn't start to feel the limits of the functioning of the Earth as a whole in this sense. However, carbon dioxide emissions tend to grow over the next few decades, according to an analysis by the International Energy Agency. In developed countries, among which we want to count, and also in China, processes have stabilised and emissions are decreasing. In the rest of the world, the emissions of the Middle East, Southeast Asia, India, South America and Africa are still increasing. I guess they want to live better, and there's no way to deny it to them, but the more important it is for every man to contribute to the suppression of these processes. A silk-glove approach doesn't lead to a goal. As the measures already agreed do not help, greenhouse gas emissions are likely to increase further. A little more stringent self-control measures should be taken. By jumping to the use of oil shale: it has a number of pros. We are still the only net exporter of electricity in the European Union, the external trade balance is in order, it is a source of tax and income, 4% of GDP, 6000, 7000 or 8000 jobs, depending on how to read, indirectly, 13000 jobs, partial enhancement of local resources, which is still good. And plus a little bit, but it still has technology by-products. Many minuses have been recorded here today: pollution of the atmosphere and of the bottom and surface water, visual pollution. The relatively complex minus is that we do not deserve this resource enough, we do not do nine tenths. This, of course, will help to make the Earth boil, if possible, not to mention the social problems associated with the monofunctional districts. Can't say nothing's been done. Fly ash has been captured, sulphur emissions have decreased significantly, although electricity production itself has rather increased slightly in this decade. So things have gotten cleaner. Things are also getting better by looking at absolute numbers. Much less carbon dioxide has been emitted from power plants and in the near future a few times less is likely to be emitted, even if oil shale energy is expected to continue more or less in the same volume. Whether he continues or not, that is the third question. Currently, roughly 1800 megawatts are in operation, with a peak consumption of 1500 megawatts in Estonia. It has already been said that about a third of this capacity will be closed in the coming years, probably simply because the resource will run out and these blocks will have to be transferred to Emex. The grey forecast is that in 2025, but no later than 2030, the second third will be closed. Hardly enough, in 2030 we only have a third of our capacity covered with oil shale electricity. The question of what to do is not just an environmental issue; it is a matter of national security. We may be an IT state, but if we don't have electricity, the bits won't move. The prognosis in this sense is not very encouraging, and the big question is where to take energy at rush hour. If classical production capacity is lacking, there will be a shortage, the price will be volatile, and at some point the maximum energy price for peak hours is just science fictional, how much exactly is determined by the manufacturer, not by us anymore. Apart from Russia, most neighbouring countries do not have electricity left over. Only Sweden has a positive balance. Finland, Denmark, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland are in deficit, buying in energy on a yearly basis. The prognosis is that Poland will already reach a structural capacity deficit in the next year, in a very good case, the year after that, which is like a structural budget deficit, which is a lot of crap. Sweden tends to feel that even existing capacity cannot be replaced by such a new one. If that were to happen, we'd be in deficit with the whole region. So the question we really have to ask is, even if we're building transmission lines somewhere, is there any capacity on the other end, is the line not going to be empty. Of course, we are so in the so-called double fork, and we have a great need to replace the power generation capacity based on oil shale with something else. A simple question: with what? World statistics, again from the International Energy Agency, say that the introduction of renewable energy is currently not satisfying demand growth. This column of the chart shows the launch of renewable energy in the world. The growth in consumption tends to be above that. In a few years, 2014 and 2015, it seemed to be a good thing, but in recent years the gap tends to tear again. One bad message is that we are hopelessly late in building a nuclear power plant. The problem is not a long construction period and a volatile energy policy, i.e. the fact that regulations have changed significantly in ten years. The problem is to disconnect our system from Russia and to synchronise it with Europe. This makes it difficult, if not impossible, to consider a nuclear power plant in our electricity system, for the simplest reason that the largest production unit must be equipped with fast-track alternative capacity. Whether it comes from your own country or through a cable from another country, it doesn't matter, but it's hard to make a nuclear plant smaller than 1,000 megawatts, and it's too big. So we are in a situation where replacing oil shale production capacity with a nuclear power plant is hardly feasible in the current political situation. Wind energy, like the solar energy that I have left out, but which is about the same in nature, is likely to be competitive in Estonia in a few years' time; in Germany it is already almost now. The problem with this is, of course, our climate, that sometimes the wind blows and sometimes does not blow. It's the same with the sun, it doesn't look at night. So it needs extensive compensatory capacity either from other energy sources or from other sources. I would also like to point out that installed capacity and actual grid capacity differ several times in the case of wind and solar energy. Right now, we have roughly 300 megawatts of windmills standing up, but the average of the year is 60 megawatts of net. The difference is five times. This relationship may improve a little in the future, but under our climate conditions it cannot theoretically improve much. One might think that Europe is a forest continent, that there is a huge forest here, that we burn wood and that we get renewable energy from biomass. Extremely nice. In Europe today, about 40% of the wood is burned, and politely, it is used to generate energy. The position of the Advisory Chamber of the European Academy of Sciences is that there is too much of it. This percentage should not exceed 20, for an extremely simple reason: wood burning emits 20% more carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour than coal burning and twice as much natural gas burning. So burning wood alongside oil shale is only acceptable because oil shale is more crippled fuel than coal. So if Europe is to abandon coal power plants, then massive wood burning for energy must automatically be abandoned. It is logical that wood that will otherwise rot in the forest (which would be worse) will be used, but it is very likely that our energy production will not be able to be built on it. Replace it with what? Production of wind and solar energy is rapidly declining, but suitable locations are competing with other options. So if you go to wind power, you have to rearrange the Clock Blood radar, there's nothing you can do about it. Pump hydropower plants are still the future in Estonia, but they are good things. In essence, pumping power stations are ultimately energy storage tanks, just like batteries and super capacitors. However, I am positive in the sense that the future is already here. The strategic direction that is worth thinking about and is unlikely to escape is diffuse production and diffuse recording. This means that almost every man in the forest produces the electricity he needs himself, at a good time, on a sunny day, sells it out, and at night he uses the batteries in his basement. It basically needs a transforming power grid. It needs a different way of thinking. It takes this guy to think that everyone counts. The problem of calculating infinite small sizes was solved by Newton and Leibniz several hundred years ago. They know how to do that. Achilles will catch up with the turtle and pass him, but it needs a new thought. Germany's experience is interesting: the experience of this type of network is considered to be a matter of national security. This competence exists at the Bundeswehr University, not at the Technical University, at least in Hamburg. It basically needs new solutions to ensure the stability of the network. This is necessary not to ensure the network frequency, but to ensure the stability of the entire network, so that nothing goes very badly. Let's take a look at the future and ask how the price of energy storage falls. It's falling pretty fast. It's not really Moore's law. Moore's law in the computer world says that the power unit becomes twice as cheap every 18 months, or that there will be twice as powerful a computer within 18 months for the same money. In some aspects, such as electric cars, the future is not far off. We are not talking about supercapacitors and basically new battery technologies, we are talking about ordinary lithium-ion batteries, we are becoming profitable in our lifetimes, in less than ten years, with relatively little uncertainty. This means a massive switch from burning fossil fuels to using batteries in cars. Somewhere else, the breakpoint is a little further away. Experts believe that in households, batteries will become payable after 18 years. It's not a very distant future either, most of us can see it. So the breakpoints aren't far away, but the approach to them, going that way, needs a different way of thinking. This is both our problem and our wealth.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U89	That beep meant there's 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U90	Two more minutes, if I may!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U91	The manager agrees.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U92	Thank you. I now want to ask this spiteful question about how the world still gets rich with honest work. This is extremely relevant and this is the main message of the Academy of Sciences today. We can achieve this by not doing simple things. If we have any value to use, we deserve it as much as possible. No income from mining, cutting or burning of trees. Revenue comes from design and product development on the one hand and marketing and brand on the other. If we ask why we are poor, why our productivity is low, the answer is that we do too easy jobs, oil shale mining and burning and oil pressing are too easy work. It is not what we produce exactly that matters, but where we are in the production chain. When we ask ourselves where our competence is, one of the unique competences of Estonia, which is more than valuable in the world, is oil shale: the competence of mining and using oil shale. Even in terms of the number of scientific articles, we are competing here with the United States. It's a competence that's nowhere else. So if we want to get the maximum out of here, we're going to have to replace the incineration with an accompaniment. Oil pressing, mixing or burning is not the solution. The site is simply moved away from mining, the amount of emissions into the atmosphere does not change significantly, the sulphur still cannot be recovered. The only benefit is that the oil is a concentrated energy storage device. So the appeal to this hall is this: we can only improve if we use the potential of oil shale differently, on the basis of very good oil shale chemistry. You cannot count on others, because the best knowledge of oil shale in the world is now in Estonia. I would like to remind you that 'Pyxit' is not a word in Estonian and hopefully will not come into use, while fully thanking you for your attention. Punch-punching means ping-pong and deceiving the idea that complicated things can be easily solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U93	Questions for the waitress. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good waitress, for this presentation, which was very well heard and monitored. The previous rapporteurs have indicated that we do not, however, have a great deal of escape from this so-called 'Põxitis'. But you led the thought in a completely different direction, that there would be a way out if we were only smarter. So far, in many discussions, it has been achieved that oil shale must be replaced by renewable energy, but from your presentation we have rather realised that this is not the only option. I understand that we already have the knowledge and the skills to make it our most important mineral resource, and we should do it wisely. What can we do, and what can the country, or the European Union, do in order to achieve in the coming years that we can better deserve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U95	Thank you very much for your question. It went to 100%. We have built one of the most effective scientific systems in the world in Estonia. Despite our small size, we are still at the forefront of real science in many places. At the same time, we have left out the core competences and related areas necessary for the functioning of the country. So Jaak Aaviksoo wrote only a few weeks ago in Sirbis that almost no investment was made in the development of Estonian economic and especially industrial disciplines in terms of science. He wrote that combined investment in mineral resources, energy, transport, construction, and industry is well below investment in biology alone. This mandate to decide which areas are the priority in Estonia is the legislator. One of the smart areas of specialisation is the improvement of resources, but it has not actually been realised.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U96	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U97	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good academic! Very cool presentation, absolute applause, and very meaningful. I'll ask you a question like that. I graduated from the Faculty of Chemistry of the State University of Tartu in 1984, last century. We always heard in the organic chemistry lab that only an extremely rich and silly person uses oil shale to burn. I mean, it was already on the agenda then, and the subject of merit was up. In your presentation, very often, I was very pleased with the expression that it needed a new thought. Here's the question. How has the Academy of Sciences planned curricula or from pre-school education after changing the model of thought, so that a person thinks that simple is not the best option, even though Einstein said that everything brilliant is easy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U98	Thank you very much for your question. The Academy of Sciences has not been chosen by the legislator to give a mandate to influence curricula, but we are still doing so in a different way, through our members who sit in university councils, university councils, university study councils. Chemistry is one of the strongest scientific disciplines in Estonia. The only Nobel laureate who was actually closely associated with Estonia, Wilhelm Ostwald, was known to be a chemist and the school he created is still alive. We deliver to us through associated societies, such as the Estonian Chemistry Society. Completely real progress has been made by academics under the so-called NUTIPRO programme, where the state finances research contracts commissioned by up to half of the private business, and Lopp, an academician, and his group are trying to extract pure kerogen from oil shale. Kerogen is a substance that contains energy and can do very interesting things. It's interesting that it's a very good fresh apple-scented substance. Cerogen production lab smells like apple gardens. These are the things we do as we please. We are trying very hard to cultivate a new type of thinking, as you have certainly seen academy members' speeches in all kinds of newspapers, magazines and media.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U99	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Academy of Sciences, congratulations to you and the Estonian Academy of Sciences on your 80th birthday! And thank you for today's presentation. My question is about our current state of oil shale science. The development of oil shale science as a scientific discipline began in Estonia in the course of the second world war. It was clear that this was very promising, and it became already a very promising scientific field. This was also continued in Soviet Estonia. How do you assess the current state of Estonian oil shale science? How do you see the prospects for development, and is this the area in which the legislator can speak?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U101	Thank you very much. I'll add that I hope I look younger than the Academy of Sciences. The process of creating the Academy of Sciences lasted in Estonia for over 20 years. In 1918 and 1920 it was found that there is not enough Estonian science to join the ranks of the world's academies. Estonian science led the Academy of Sciences to the necessary level of use of oil shale chemistry and oil shale, so Estonian science owes its foundation largely to the introduction of oil shale. It is clear that oil shale energy developed very rapidly in the context of limited energy resources and almost without environmental restrictions. So we have the best know-how in the world about oil shale mining and burning. It is completely unique, there is no such thing in the rest of the world, and it took about 20 years for it to come into existence. It has been a little too slow to turn that we should deserve oil shale many times more. I call on the legislator to take perhaps not very radical steps. It is never possible to say what scientific breakthrough is possible, but it is possible to create conditions for a breakthrough.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U102	Thomas Paur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you once again for a very meaningful presentation. What do you think this time horizon will be like when we can start talking about oil shale-free energy in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U104	Also a very good question! As humans, we still tend to act like a pendulum, that once there is 100% oil shale, then there is 0% oil shale. The balance is somewhere in between. The time horizon when it is reasonable to switch from oil shale to diffuse production and storage is less than 20 years in transport for less than 10 years. But there's another side. Some experts claim that it is difficult for me to say, according to the data, that although several Finnish mines are in large declines, they are considered alive to sell technology. That's what we have between our ears. If we do not have a technology application base, if we completely give up touching oil shale, then we will lose the very important value that Estonia currently has and is working in, and which is sold, specifically to Jordan, specifically to the USA and other places where 99% of the world's oil shale reserves are located.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U105	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U106	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr President, thank you very much. I really liked the end of your presentation, where you described in the context of this kick-and-knock, that difficult things simply cannot be explained. I myself often use the expression whether it's possible to make clear to the stroke figure what 3D is. But the question is about technologies for replacing liquid fuels. You have very well provided us with statistics and data on how much really wood burning emits more CO2. Would you describe to us the potentially harmful environmental impact of biofuel production? Indeed, one of the largest raw materials for biofuels is palm oil and its production is one of the most environmentally harmful activities. That's the context for explaining a simple and difficult thing...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U108	... where the so-called seemingly good aim...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U109	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U110	...can cause much more damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U111	This is now the place where both the Estonian Academy of Sciences and the academies of Sciences of other countries do not have a common position, but the scientific community and the business landscape tend to move towards the fact that renewable energy produced from biomass is not a solution under the conditions of rapidly growing mankind. We are taking advantage of an unrecoverable resource called soil, additional fertilisers, and there are currently estimates that rail electrification is economically harmful, trains should be moving on hydrogen fuel and in this direction they are already moving. That means, in plain language, that we do not produce oil, but we produce fuel from seawater called hydrogen. Whether this is the only way out or there are other ways out, I'm having a hard time commenting right now. Tens of thousands of scientists are working on this, I would say, but almost certainly the portable energy produced from biomass will remain a very small minority in the future. At the same time, it makes no sense to give it up, because we have waste that would otherwise be a problem to throw away into nature. Just to understand the scale of things: we've drained a lot of swamps here, and right now we're restoring them, and the question is why. In Indonesia, too, swamps are being drained for planting palm plantations, and today the amount of greenhouse gases released into the air from drained swamps in Indonesia alone is higher than the total industrial emissions in Europe. The growing peat binds the carbon, but as soon as you peel off the top layer and start burning the peat, the mass below begins to disintegrate and the atmosphere will emit carbon. These things are extremely complicated. We do not have almost untouched nature, what we have is created by human activity. We have a certain moral obligation to keep this system going. Now if we say okay, I'm going, it's the worst thing that could happen to the planet's nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Academy of Sciences, The second day will be an international conference at the Academy of Sciences, the subject of which will be the advisory role of the academies in an informative society. In your opinion, how effectively have you been able to convert science into advice in political choices in Estonia? Please, if you are able to do so, make a comparison with Europe. You started with a table where you showed that environmental matters are not well in Europe and in many cases there are not even targets.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U113	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U114	Thanks for asking. This conference started yesterday. We listened to expert advice, and then I came right here for advice and practice. In the words of DG 12 of the European Commission, namely DG Research and Innovation, Robert-Jan Smits, the first condition for receiving advice is a mandate. As long as the legislator has not given anyone a direct mandate to give advice, the advice will not work. This mandate has not been granted in Estonia. In Europe, a research advisory unit has been set up with the European Commission, i.e. a group of about 30 professionals who have organised advice on two "technical levels." There are so-called large sevens, seven renowned experts from all over the world who see that content is okay, and four consortia of European academies of science have been invited to give advice, two of which include Estonia, plus Academia Europaea. About two thirds of the questions asked for advice have been formulated by the European Commission, with roughly one third arising from the grassroots level. This system has been operating for quite a few years now. A good system of scientific counseling is in progress in all Anglo - Saxon countries, in a slightly different way, in other words, in those countries we envy. It is emerging in Estonia. In Estonia, the Ministry of Education and Research has financed places of scientific advisors in ministries under the RITA programme and more than ten of them have already been filled. So the first slippers are out. Here, too, is the question to the legislator whether he wants a wise man in his pocket all the time or whether he thinks he will find a wise man when he needs to slap a serve.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U115	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U116	Thank you. I ask two things at a time, because there are few questions to ask. However, what are our alternative options? Firstly, is it quite hopeless to produce biofuels directly through photosynthesis with a positive balance? It's like there's hope for algae. Secondly, all the profitability that you have shown here optimistically. Are there no material shortages or excessive energy consumption and pollution? After all, all these batteries require environmental loads in a completely different place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U117	Thank you. Very well caught again. It's a little hard for me to answer the first question. Photosynthesis is a slow process, a terrible slow process and the availability of energy from biomass requires bacterial or chemical treatment, which in turn requires space, equipment, technology, know-how. Certainly, as I said, biofuels will remain part of a certain balance sheet, but there is no reason to believe that we will still be able to cover mankind's growing energy needs. Speaking of profitability, it is true that one of the three diagrams I showed represented one past, how the cost of energy carriers has fallen per kilowatt-hour recorded. Over the last few decades, the declines have been linear in almost these coordinates, i.e. rather the decline has been much, much faster. The last two charts were future model forecasts, where it was assumed that raw material prices would remain more or less the same, that labour prices would remain more or less at the same level as inflation, but also that the price of classical motor fuel would remain at the same level. When the price increase comes, it usually concerns a very large number of products. In addition, the 95% confidence limits given in these drawings, albeit poorly visible, were. Trends in these confidence limits usually take into account the extent to which the initial conditions may change. Falling into this corridor is quite likely correct. So time scale can change, ten years may become seven or fifteen, but not three or thirty.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U118	The manager's embarrassed now. If the rapporteur agrees and the Riigikogu does not mind, I will also give the opportunity to ask the following two questions, even though the time is up. It's a fool to stop if there's any more questions. You all agree, don't you? Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you so much for the academics! There was a nice picture in your report that showed that the world is getting cold and hot from time to time. I'll be right back in the corner if you can't see me. These time frames were very wide, 100,000 years or 1,000 years. As an academic, you certainly know that the debate about what causes climate change, whether it is man-made or whether it is generated by something else is alive, it is not a decided matter. I don't think we should lock ourselves up on any of the environmental activists' slogans. But I'm more interested in the nuclear power plant story that we've come to. You said that, because of political decisions, in particular the desynchronousisation and the climate agreement and other things, it has become impossible for us to build a nuclear power plant. What should be the basis for Estonian politicians, academics and officials, either for energy to be as cheap and accessible as possible to the people of Estonia or for the abstract avoidance of climate change that is not caused by people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U120	Thank you very much. The Academy will seek to avoid options between the two alternatives, if possible. Usually there are more alternatives. It has been described very well by Isaac Asimov in his 'End of Eternity' and 'Asumi' series: when new conditions come, there will be new opportunities. No one had any idea about X-rays 140 years ago, the cell phone came into our lives quite recently, the internet a little earlier. The Academy is pretty sure that there are enormous things in nature that we don't know, but if we want to know, we'll find new alternatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U121	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U122	Thank you. Although Estonia is said to be one of the worst polluters, Estonia's air is the cleanest in Europe. For example, India is polluting just as much as the whole of the European Union, as is the Philippines. There are many examples. Estonia's role in all of this is practically non-existent. In 2017, there were 105 quiet days in Estonia and the share of renewable energy production was close to zero. So what are we going to replace oil shale energy with? It is not wind energy, it is not bioenergy, you say it is not nuclear energy, it is not the same as electricity imports. For example, the Czechs have said that they do not intend to abandon coal energy because it would damage their national interests and their economies and is simply utopian.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U123	Thank you, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U124	So what's our alternative, sitting in candlelight?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U125	The problem isn't that we can't produce energy. The problem is that we can produce energy in a certain part of the year, more specifically, in a certain part of the day, in white time. We'll get a lot of solar energy in winter, too. The problem is saving energy by the time we can't produce it. The solution strongly recommended by the Academy of Sciences is to push for the development of energy storage capabilities, because at the time of day when it is dark, we live with batteries. The costs of kWh recovered from batteries for households should be competitive on market terms over the next twenty years, with the construction of the nuclear power plant for the same duration. If we are able to set up a system based on diffuse production and storage on the scale of one country, it will be a much stronger act than creating Skype and creating the basic technology of bitcoin combined. For this we also have a part of the competence that is unique in the world, it is the production of supercapacitors, Skeleton and the associated complex and the science behind it. So once again, the likely exit is scattered production and diffuse recording.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U126	Thank you, Tarmo Soire, for your report and your answers. I'm opening negotiations. But before that, looking at the number of negotiators, the honourable Riigikogu, is a procedural proposal. In particular, the Committee on the Environment has proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Environment to extend the session until this item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. There were 47 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, one against and no abstentions. The session of the Riigikogu has been extended until this item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Negotiation. First of all, on the recommendation of the Commission, representatives of the political groups. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U127	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In 1985, I went to work for the Kreenholm Manufaktuur. When I got my pass from the frame department, it had a six-digit number. I asked how many people work in a manufacturer. I was a 12898th employee. It's nicely written on the ticket I still have at home. Seven years later, in the course of the ownership reform, Kreenholm was sold, 5,000 people worked there at the end of the century, 3000 people in 2003 and virtually zero in 2006, and Kreenholm Island was left empty. Although one in five residents of Narva worked in Kreenholm's Manufacturing, not one in five people of working age, no one simply paid attention to such matters. This was our local government problem, a human problem, no one recognized it as a state problem. Luckily, times change. Today is a clear example of how times really change and become more positive. This debate today began quite grimly for me personally. I do not understand how 1079 digital signatures can come up with proposals that hit under 6 000 jobs in a particular industrial sector, plus 7 000 more jobs alongside them. But in the end, it got very positive. I'll remember two sentences today. One said Rainer Vakra, my colleague: no need for a separate strategy to exit oil shale energy, it is already decided, everything goes according to plan. This, I understand, is not just his personal opinion, it is the opinion of our Committee on the Environment. The second is the sentence that Tarmo Soomere said: we must not create a deceptive view that complex things can be easily resolved. Really, that's the way it is. Since this process has already started anyway, we need to continue this work and the next formations will have to deal with it. The overall picture of our labour market was very well demonstrated here, but measures to promote employment growth need to be further developed. The best key in an industrial area such as Ida-Virumaa is industrial parks. There are certain problems, there are issues that need to be resolved in the near future. The state should pay more attention to this. These industrial parks should not depend on day-to-day policies. I'm talking about Narva. We had by the beginning of 2014, if my memory doesn't fool me, 25 of the 27 lots, I think. At the moment, there are still, as was the case, four companies. This means that the interests of investors change because of this same day's policy, their wishes change. We need to think about how to get rid of it. Another thing that needs to be developed is transport, infrastructure. Because I move every week... I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U128	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U129	... From Narva to Tallinn and from Tallinn to Narva, I can see how people move, who work either in Tallinn or outside Estonia, because it is necessary to go to Tallinn anyway to get to the port or airport. There are very, very and very many of them. The infrastructure is currently not responding to these needs. It should not only be developed in Ida-Virumaa, it should also be done in counties along the southern border, practically for anyone who is further away from Harjumaa. Okay, re-training. Here, in my opinion, the question that is better acceptable is whether re-training, in which case you will take a very difficult burden on yourself to make an older person than forty-year-old a specialist in some new job, or whether you will consciously start looking for an investor in an area close to the skills of the existing workforce. In fact, all foreign entrepreneurs who visit us speak the same thing: a worker like Ida-Virumaa, such as Narva, Kohtla-Järve, Sillamäe, can be sought out; there are very few in Europe. Finally, we talked quite a bit about oil shale energy today. My personal opinion is that if it were up to me, the construction of new blocks of Eesti Energia would start tomorrow at Narva Power Plants. In my opinion, energy is an area which each country must have independent and independent. But since the Riigikogu has taken positions such as it has taken, and oil shale energy is developing as it is planned for us, I suggest that even more attention be paid to the chemical industry. We were only talking about energy. There are two things to be said: oil shale energy and oil shale chemistry. They're connected, they're very close, and the other one may have more chances of surviving than the first. But the workforce, a qualified frame for this same oil shale chemistry, can also be taken from energy. In any case, I would like to thank everyone who participated here today, both on behalf of myself and on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party. This was a very interesting and useful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U130	Marko Pomerants on behalf of the Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U131	Dear Chairman, Good guys in the hall! I'll take extra time out just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U132	We'll give you three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U133	I am the person who has signed the Paris climate agreement on behalf of Estonia. For me, it was not just a nice move to New York, but I was fully conscious when I signed it with the authority of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. We're coming to the debate tonight. I was watching it in my office. Let's start at the beginning, Mihkel Dosage. It became clear that there are still no limits to the growth of environmental awareness. I think in this respect, this is an overview that we have all around us, I'm sure it will help a lot of ambassadors. Now, once again, if you blow these three relevant development plans, the development plan for the energy economy, the fundamentals of climate policy until the middle of the century and the oil shale development plan, these are not documents that have come in any way, I do not know that someone forgot the elevator and they have been picked up from there and we have put them into use. These are documents which have been drawn up in cooperation with political parties up to the limit of the agreement that has been possible. I think that from March on, this methodology is relatively similar. There's a saying in South Estonia that you can't do it with crap. I think that it is exactly the same thing that needs to be approached on this issue of climate policy. It is easy to throw slogans, but it is actually important to take into account what opportunities we have, what we should do to contribute to this area, and what agreements we should make. If we look at the development of wind energy in Estonia, we can see that it has gone over the rocks and stumps in the same way. Birds are called for help to prevent sea wind parks from happening. I am not worried that we are dealing with a lack of leadership, as Rainer Vakra said here. If there is consensus, I think someone can lead this task, there must be descendants. This talk is also quite old and has been coming here for years to say, where does this climate change come from, whether a person has a role here or whether it comes from nature. I believe that this issue should be approached in such a way that, regardless of the reason, we have to cope with these effects. We must (a) be able to adapt and (b) make wise decisions that would reduce our own role. In fact, one great benefit in any case from this whole process can be that innovation takes place and that unreasonable technological solutions become more sensible. The first rapporteur also asked whether the political parties in any way deal with this issue in Riigikogu election platforms. I have prepared an approach to the Patriotic Party, the content of which is as follows: Estonia must certainly use oil shale in accordance with international agreements, such as the Paris Agreement, and established agreed environmental standards, moving towards a competitive low-carbon economy by the middle of the century, based on the fundamentals of climate policy. Well, that makes sense. Is there any way that we can prepare separately for the change in employment that may take place in different years when one or the other oil shale block falls out of production? I don't really think so. There is no point in talking today about the people of the unemployment fund Ida-Viru getting ready for the employment change in 2023. It is important that they have the tools, and the Riigikogu has given the possibilities to do so. It must also be based on which jobs there is a particular need. President Tarmo Soomere of the Academy said that we need to get more complicated. I'm sure it's right. This cannot only happen at the expense of the companies that are operating in this sector today, it is absolutely necessary to contribute to this in terms of research funding. Surely it is wise for us to achieve a situation where our oil shale dependence has become an opportunity to use it with the best knowledge and the best. I hope we all evolve as we grow together. The world is complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U134	On behalf of the Kalle Palling Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, thank the participants in this debate, both on behalf of myself and on behalf of the whole Group of the Reform Party. Indeed, there has been a very meaningful and quite emotional debate, which cannot always be said about the debates that are held through the media, talking about Püxit. I am very pleased that when we talked about this topic here today, not using the Estonian name Põx, we talked about the fact that we have to exit oil shale electricity production, not the oil shale sector and the use of oil shale as mineral resources in general, but we have to move towards increasingly more profitable, less polluting and more forward-looking production directions. But I can't pass by the fact that they still want to be slogand on this subject. We have seen similar handwriting in the past in other processes and other countries. The same name of Püxit itself is derived from, I think, the name of another process, Brexit. When we look at where the Brexit debate, which has been going for a few years, we see that what has happened is that the UK administration has become a laughing stock on very many issues. Surely we should not afford such a thing either domestically or internationally, especially in a situation where the oil shale sector already contributes around 4% to the economy. I will give another example of such quick decision-making as a result of sloganism and'shooting' from the hip about taking decisions. In 2011, following the Fukushima nuclear disaster, Germany decided to set up its energy economic development plan, or Energiewende, which included a decision to close 17 nuclear power plants in southern Germany by 2022. The decision was a decision, but the reality was that it was only after that decision that they realised that there were no sufficient power transmission capacities between Northern and Southern Germany to transport wind power, for example, to southern Germany, where there is a much greater need for it. So every decision on energy is extremely long-term, investment in the energy sector is extremely capital intensive and cannot be made before the elections by throwing slogans and shooting them off the hip. But today's debate gave us the assurance that we are not in Estonia to do this. If we come back to this Energiewende again, the result is that we are debating this issue today, and very many countries have signed a call to fight against the other Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline linking Russia and Germany. In fact, they need gas precisely in order to replace the shortfalls in electricity generation caused by the closure of nuclear plants. I think I am not wrong when I say that Estonia's energy policy has been a European climate policy. We have contributed heavily to environmental sustainability in the production of oil shale electricity; over 140 million euros have been invested directly to limit emissions (I am talking about the power generation capacity of Narva Power Plants). All in all, more than 1.2 billion euros have been invested in the production portfolio of Eesti Energia to develop cleaner and more efficient energy production. Surely the future is the co-generation of oil and electricity, no one is questioning that. The direct burning of the oil shale ends. In the longer term, this can only be done at the Auvere power plant. By 2023 at the latest, four power generation blocks with a total capacity of 615 MW will fall out of operation. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U136	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U137	As has already been said here today in the course of discussions, this time will actually come by the end of this year, because it is just more profitable and it makes sense to do so. Perhaps it is extremely realistic to say that by 2040 or even 2030 we have virtually exited oil shale electricity production or direct electricity generation from oil shale. There's no need to kill a separate stake here, as has been mentioned. It would be particularly irresponsible to talk about oil shale as such abandonment, because, as many previous speakers have said, it involves insane employment: over 6000 direct jobs and over 13000 indirect jobs in Ida-Viru County. We have received confirmation today that the unemployment fund and businesses, in cooperation, are making a very good contribution to the transformation of the labour market and of the labour force, but it will take time. But I will come back again to Estonia's energy policy. Between this and the European climate policy, I would put an equal mark. Indeed, in terms of renewable energy deployment and its share, we have been one of the most advanced, the targets that were set for 2020 have already been achieved. In most of the major settlements, we have replaced gas with combined heat and power production from biomass. We have very serious transport deficits. When we talk about where climate policy really should be implemented, this place is transport. But speaking of the future, the members of the Reform Party have proposed a draft law on the amendment of environmental charges pending in the Committee on the Environment. We see that we should change the policy on how we use the value created by the oil shale industry, namely environmental charges and, more generally, dividends from the use of other natural resources. I think, i.e. we, the authors of the amendment, think that we should not use this money now and now, but should invest it in the future investment fund, following the example of the Norwegian State, which could finance the same innovation that the President of the Academy of Sciences referred to very nicely. Indeed, the future is in oil shale chemistry, in so-called different solutions, but in order to achieve these different solutions, we do not have to artificially shut down and kill existing opportunities and production assets. In this sense, this debate has indeed been very meaningful. I hope that the election debate on developments in the oil shale sector as the elections are approaching is at least as good as the quality of today's debate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U138	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U139	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, participants in the discussion! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I also say that a gradual exit from oil shale energy is necessary, but it cannot happen over and over again. This is, inter alia, a question of security and the existence of realistic alternatives. I'm going to start by making some margins for this discussion. In my opinion, this term of Põxit is not a secondary issue, given that we have just had a major national debate on the issue of mother tongue in this Chamber. That's a pretty important question. In my opinion, the use of this term is more of a humour angle. We could be joking here, 'bunt-bang', or how it might sound in the island's dialect, but the more important question I think is that it's obviously taken over from Brexit's name. Thinking of this analogy, I would not want Estonia to emerge from oil shale energy just as thoughtlessly and with the same spikes as the Brexit process is currently taking place in Europe. The second point is that I would like to congratulate the Committee on the Environment on this occasion. I think this is a pretty exemplary way of dealing with a collective appeal to one of the Riigikogu with such a debate. The question of development plans. There are many of these development plans in the country at all, often contradictory. The fact that we have many development plans in this area is probably also about the importance of the area. But I would like to tell the starters that all kinds of interest groups and groups of initiatives in Estonia have the ability to think in the key to the new strategy paper. I am not always sure that the new strategy paper itself is the magic wand that solves the problems. In the worst case, different strategy papers are piled up and may not get any better. Now this question of the deadline that was raised here, both on the issues and on the part of Mr Vakra. I think we can play with this in our minds, but I would not want it to become a question of a political slogan. Whether this deadline is 2040 or sooner or later, I would rather trust experts and scientists, but there is certainly a need to answer a number of important questions in this regard and to find a solution to the problems that I think were most clearly formulated here by Mr Finland. Apart from Russia, we do not have any surplus energy from neighbouring countries. As far as renewable energy is concerned, one pretty thoughtful argument was that the increase in consumption actually exceeds the increase in renewable energy. Of the types of energy, wind and solar are likely to have a future perspective, we need to think about how to make better use of them. Wood cannot be so much a solution for the future, but I think the most important thing to note is that the main keyword is still the production of diffuses, how to achieve this, and how to achieve efficient storage so that energy can also be used consistently. Until then... I'm asking for more time! I asked for more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U140	Yeah, please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U141	It is important to think about the possibility of improving technology for continuing with oil shale energy, which is the best technology available. Here, too, I refer to the comment of the President of the Academy of Sciences that this is not only about energy as such, but also about oil shale energy and oil shale science have a tradition in Estonia, which is, among other things, a question of technological development and possible sales. I also consider it important that we brought labour market problems to this discussion in Ida-Virumaa. Without it, it would probably be one-sided. However, if you end up with some political arrows and come back to the issues of diffuse production and storage, especially diffuse production, I feel that there is an important contradiction here. This contradiction is that alternative energy production, diffuse production, which, among other things, obviously requires a completely different energy network in the long term than we currently have, is fundamentally contrary to the monopoly position of the Estonian Energy market. It's a source of trouble. When it comes to what is wrong, I can say that if I have been in contact with solar energy producers, small producers, they have said that they have had too many bureaucratic problems so that they can come to the market at all and sell their little energy to the grid. Here's the problem. To be honest, this transfer of Tootsi Suursoo land as a non-cash contribution to the share capital of Eesti Energia does not sound good in terms of the freedom of enterprise and the development of alternatives. Perhaps this process is certainly very complex, but it must provide alternative producers with opportunities to enter the market more smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U142	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U143	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am also delighted that only a thousand signatures have come to this great hall as a very important national issue. This does not happen with many petitions. So on the one hand, it's very sympathetic and positive. At the same time, looking at the title of this debate, in which 'Pyxit' is written in large, as if the topic could be to give up oil shale energy, I think it gives society a bit of a false signal, as if it were on the agenda. Having listened to the arguments of today's debate, especially the first rapporteur, it cannot be said that there were facts that were not very true. I am certainly pleased when people are concerned about the global footprint, are concerned about our living environment, but considering Estonia as a responsible person for the whole world is arbitrary and certainly wrong. The facts speak for themselves. Total European CO2 emissions, or greenhouse gas emissions, account for 5% of global emissions, Estonia's share of European emissions is 0.9%, and we account for 0.05% of global emissions. When we look at these numbers and say that we pollute too much of our global environment, it is not true. The fact is also that 4% of GDP is a significant sum. This is the direct annual revenue of over EUR 100 million to our national budget, but even more so, the much greater impact is that there are 20,000 people directly and indirectly involved in this sector. Last year, it provided more than 7300 jobs in Ida-Virumaa. If anyone from green or just naive flowers comes to tell us that Püx is very necessary, because we are polluteting the world, good morning, it is not true. What are the alternatives? The Chairman of the Committee on the Environment gave a brief overview of the discussion in the Committee on the Environment. So what are the alternatives proposed? The House of Renewable Energy has come up with the view that if we create an energy crisis in Estonia, we can survive it by increasing imports. Perhaps we will increase imports by ending any independence in energy policy. The second argument is that, since we do not have a large industry, energy needs are small anyway. There's a coded view that we don't need an industry, which is a very big false claim. It is totally, I would say, dangerous to start playing with the idea that we do not want industry in Estonia, we do not want industrial development and we do not want energy independence. The very, very wrong question, which gives tens of thousands of people and Estonian society as a whole the wrong signal that we should give up oil shale. No way. Not to mention the fact that Estonia is in the world for the benefit of the oil shale industry's economy, no. 1. We have succeeded, for example, in selling our knowledge in Jordan; we have expanded it to the United States. After all, one day we will inevitably come to the question of how to replace fossil fuels with alternative fuels. Oil shale has been a third or fourth stage in the world, but its importance is increasing anyway, and then our knowledge and ability to sell it are again important. Rather, the subject of the debate could be what will happen in the future in the longer term when oil shale becomes exhausted as a mineral. So what are the alternatives? Certainly, the alternative is not to place solar panels and wind generators all over Estonia; it simply does not cover our need. Some of the questioners played briefly with the idea of nuclear energy. This has been a very politically dangerous issue, which has had very strong counter-reactions, but I say that in the longer term, over decades, it will probably be the only alternative to guarantee energy independence, guarantee our security, taking into account the specificities of our region, and at the same time ensure that our economic, social and, above all, industrial needs are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U144	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U145	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's starting to feel awful. We have just heard the truth here that everyone is stupid and the facts say that Estonia does not pollute nature because there are so few of us. When I was this old, I had already been to school. I was through two universities and my third class was about to begin, but basically I grew up knowing that the future was very dark and that this dark future would come by the end of the first half of this century. I had read the reports from the Rome Club, studied geography as the first specialty, and it was a truly depressing idea that was going on. I have to say, I still don't know what's going to happen. Actually, there are no solutions. I would very much like Estonia to be able to develop its economy on the basis of oil shale, so that we have energy, light, warmth, wealth, so that the Russians have a job in northeast Estonia, but I do not know how it can be done. I'll admit it. Luckily, the previous speaker knows. He denies everything. If you say no, then there is no need to go to school, you can just send the others to the moon, the President of the academy, professors, all over the world, and say that there is no climate warming and science, that is not at all possible. But the theme connection that the Rome Club drew on its charts led to the conclusion that the previous speaker, I don't want to name his name the one that hates the most. Rather, he has found concentration camps rather than effective human rethinking. In the beginning, pollution, the end of resources, water scarcity, ethnic conflicts, social conflicts and migration. There is nowhere to be a solution for a small Estonia with its million people to survive, so that poorer nations live in more difficult climatic conditions, and what to deny there, even more conflicting nations, and nations coming from overcrowded areas will not flood us. I listened and wondered how this person would put together the fact that we here are building an industrial society, burning fossil fuel at the same pace, getting rich, but nothing else is going to change. Even if we are not able to exert influence elsewhere, what happens if everyone who can burn, industrialize, consume, reproduce in this way? All the graphs that the Rome Club drew were not entirely impeccable from the beginning because they were too linear. In terms of population, too, the trend has been rather slowing down. But the crazy thing is that the years are still more or less the same, in the decades that we've got at our fingertips, very bad things are happening. They can happen here or there, there can be human conflicts, there can be natural conflicts. In any case, 99% of the species are already extinct, and we do not know when this fragile crunch is going, after which ecosystems will stop producing food for us, when the balance will go away in this form, when the balance will go away in humanity, so that people will not stay at home and they will just come. Jaak Madison says they don't exist and we just show them the door. I don't know. Can you really come and teach the academy of sciences and scientists around the world, deny everything and still be a member of parliament, apply again? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U146	Three more minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U147	I agree with all these palliative stories, but I can see even the weakness in them. We must probably give up burning oil shale; it is our common policy to impose upon us. It's more like it's been slow than fast. But oil shale chemistry has been mentioned for a hundred years and Estonia has always had these examples. I've seen these ampoules and products since the 1960s. It's an opportunity, but it all actually requires further extraction. Oil production is great, and I agree, we should produce oil instead of burning, but, as has been said here today, it does not change the environmental burden. Maybe the quantities will change. In fact, not even maybe, but this way it is possible, we get more than the same amount of revenue. But long trends are still pretty pessimistic. Some say that we can build all these pollution mountains into roads, but neither are these four-line roads able to grow, all the land cannot be asphalted, all of which requires, first, pollution of the environment and, second, continuing to pollute the environment, i.e. road transport. So we're in a lot of very interesting traffic paths, but we're trying to think as positive as Tarmo Soomere and hope that these alternative and energy-dispersive methods are ultimately sustainable. I did not get the answer, for example, from the point of view of the materials industry, whether we have colored metals and all the tools necessary for producing solar or wind energy, whether we can overcome security problems, not only in energy, but also simply in terms of radar systems, and whether we can even protect our country when the world is as troubled as it is in trend and people and nations tend to visit others. Just because we don't have much migration now doesn't mean it's not coming, but it's all really about environmental protection and climate policy. I particularly recommend to the EKRE that you think this way, do not quite take a wild stand about these issues; there are smarter people than me, then scientists, and they say that yes, fossil fuels cannot keep the world going. What you have written about this in your 2015 programme is better than what you are now allowing the cheapest excise duties. That's not the solution. Excise policy is one of those. The fact that we are not building you just in case, but as much as necessary, and ultimately changing our consumption and production is our duty, among other things, to maintain our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U148	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U149	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It was nice to hear the previous speaker say he's the smartest, he's the only one who's been to school, and the rest of us here are dumber than a table foot. But at the same time, at least I, who I think I have gone to school despite everything and even to the university, is very surprised that the smartest person in one breath is willing to destroy all of Estonia's oil shale industry and oil shale energy, and then hopes that perhaps someday something similar will be invented, which could be an alternative, and with another breath, all the world's pain, all the world's pollution, will pour all the problems on our necks. And if there is a party that does not agree, it turns out that this party too is completely uneducated and has not attended school. But let's look at the facts. It has also been said here today that Estonia accounts for 0.05% of global CO2 emissions and 0.9% of European emissions. On the scale of the world, it's nonexistent. There are a number of countries in the world that pollute significantly more than the European Union. Take India, for example. I believe that there are many people in Estonia and also in this hall who have been there and have seen a residential area built on a garbage dump, where this waste dump continues, who have seen millions of factories and cars running black smokes, and who knows what strange means of transport. There are people here who know where the environment is in Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere in Asia, where this problem is really terrible and horrible. But we don't care. We must take full responsibility here in Estonia, where Europe has the cleanest air. Yes, indeed, according to the OECD analysis, our footprint per person is one of the largest in Europe, but at the same time our territory, its location and the number of people are quite different. So in the end, this comparison doesn't mean anything. Estonia is inevitably in a situation where we do not have alternatives to the oil shale industry and oil shale energy. These alternatives could not be offered today either by the Greens representative or by the President of the Honourable Academy. Because they just don't exist. What would be the alternative if we gave up oil shale energy? Is it wind energy? Last year was 105 days when there was no wind. Bioenergy? The respected academic also said that this is not an alternative. He also claimed that nuclear energy was not an alternative. But what's left of it, are we gonna start buying electricity? Then we will become completely dependent on other countries and on all price fluctuations. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U150	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U151	And all the talk about energy security is losing every thought. Fortunately, Estonia still has a lot of oil shale. We also have 400 million tons of oil shale in the occupied area, on the other side of the Narva River. If we were to produce diesel fuel according to modern technology, we would be independent for 75 years. That would be enough for us for three-quarters of a century. We're willing to throw it away because of some hope that maybe someday alternative energy recovery methods will be invented to replace oil shale. Yes, indeed, let us do so when alternative methods of energy production exist. But not before. Alternative methods do not simply mean that there is no other way, but they must also be competitive, they must be cheaper than today's energy, otherwise we will just ruin ourselves, we will ruin our country, we will ruin our people. I mean, that can't be a purpose. The aim is precisely to develop and sustain our energy independence, our livelihood, our economy, industry and people's well-being. From this point of view, we cannot simply look at this problem, but we must look at it in this way. Recently, I visited the Special Committee on National Budget Control in the Czech Republic. There Parliament's representatives made it perfectly clear that, yes, there are such objectives in the European Union, but they are not going to meet them, they have coal energy and industry based on it, and they are not going to shut it down or end it, because it would harm their economies, their national and national interests. All this talk about the European Union and other such extreme tree huggers is just utopia. It is precisely the same position that we must share and defend here. We must stand up for our economic and national interests, not voluntarily tie a millstone to our necks and jump off a high dam. I hope that in the future, practical alternatives will indeed be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U152	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U153	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to Mr Ligi's story while he was in his office. That's rude and stupid. It is deeply offensive to listen to such talk while in the company of EKRE, but it has been said that it is some kind of flat country company. No, Jürgen, that's not it. I've studied too, I've graduated from the Faculty of Biology, I'm completely green and I read all these materials. With some lame temple like this, you don't want to have any company here. I will not repeat these employment problems and that a large part of GDP should be covered by something if the so-called 'Põx' is done quickly. Above all, I think energy independence is important. In fact, Estonia suffers from a syndrome of sovereignty and independence. I'm not going to talk about this for a long time, it's about energy independence and independence. The oil shale, whether we want it or not, is its guarantee. The oil shale has been studied for a very long time. I'm sorry that a good friend of Anto Raukas isn't here anywhere, he happens to be an academician, and he happens to be saying the same thing that I'm saying, or Jürgen Ligi's definition of flat country society EKRE. The academic Finnishre story was very intelligent, as was the story of many other performers here today. I don't want to repeat all this. So in fact, wisdom is not only in the heads of the Reform Party or any other society. Wisdom is divided in more or less the same way in this hall. But I wanted to draw attention to this initiative, which is very grateful. You have to think about what is going to happen, because the world is really moving towards the abyss at a pretty frightening rate. There must be a lot of solidarity here with other countries in the world. But we need to think first and foremost about our security and independence in this Chamber, and now energy independence. And oil shale, whether we want it or not, is its main guarantor. But on Wednesday, tomorrow already, we will discuss another draft, draft 645, over a long day. This is an interesting bill that has been marinated by the government for a year, among other things. I'll talk about it tomorrow, too. It's very closely connected to this. A thousand people are behind today's initiative and the current leader of the House for Renewable Energy, who was the first to speak here, and who happens to be the successor to the present Minister Rene Tammis. When I asked the Environment Minister, Kiisler, at first reading, for a draft amendment to the Environmental Charges Act 645, why the government has been picking up this important bill to raise environmental charges for a year, he replied to me that yes, there are differences of opinion. But you know, friends, what were those differences? The reason for the disagreement was that the former head of the House of Renewable Energy Rene Tammis, a lobbyist, has in the meantime become the minister of the Republic of Estonia. Today, his successor presented his first presentation. It is a question of draft 645, which we are going to discuss on Wednesday, in fact, of how much the Government of the Republic, when we adopt this draft, will implement this 'tax ladder' in its regulation. That's what the government of the Republic is up against. The Scottish-led House for Renewable Energy, whose leader has become a minister, has been pushing for this ladder to become more harmful to electricity producers in the case of electricity generation. These are the tragic threads that are deeper, not much talk about them in this hall. I hope that on Wednesday we will talk about this issue again, and today is a foreplay...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U154	Mr Ernits, would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U155	Yeah, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U156	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U157	So this is actually a prelude to tomorrow's draft debate, I repeat, this is draft 645 and there is already a second reading. What is its true hinterland? In fact, there is quiet lobbying to prevent oil shale electricity from being produced, to make it more difficult and to encourage so-called renewable energy and windmills. This head man has now become the Minister of the Republic of Estonia. So I'm looking forward to watching how this thing works, and I think it's interesting for everyone else too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U158	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U159	Good vice chairman! Good-looking coworkers you're all here to listen to! I've had the opportunity to see this wonderful long presentation twice. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we made a bigger round table. And then what became clear? It turned out that our civil society lives very well. Suffice it to say, if an NGO is looking for a problem, it's going to be a bigger problem. Then he offers it to some political parties who make it a very big problem and suggest that he is the only one who can and can solve this problem. The previous speakers have already mentioned the facts here about the situation in which Estonian air is actually in place and how dangerous this oil shale is for us, which we need to get rid of immediately. I also assumed that the young people of this NGO who were on the ground, and also the chairman of the Environment Committee, who could actually monitor it through an internship transfer, might have come to the recognition that this is not the biggest and most important problem that we currently have. We can paint it into a big green problem, but it's not convincing. I assumed that this would not be a crucial national issue. If this is now a crucial national issue, it is difficult for me to say something else, but I am talking to those people who wanted to know what we had here today. Let me give you a simple example. Today we had a debate about smartphones as such being the devil. It was claimed that children are always on smartphones and that they actually become dumber every day. The cleverness and stupidity of children we measure with the PISA test, but we don't take into account the results, because the claim is that smartphones are from the devil, and the more children are on smartphones, the more stupid they get. So today, for the second time, it's proven that smart phones are the devil. We don't watch the PISA test because smartphones are from the devil. We don't really get far with refusals and orders. I think they just wanted a wider audience now. I'm assuming it's gonna be high now, but I don't know, our national broadcasting and all the other commercial channels are gonna see that maybe there's still a rush to sell the ad. It's autumn, it's mushroom season, but every third commercial keeps calling for mushrooms. Good starters! There's green in the woods, so let's go, too, with a basket in our hand, and a shawl in the other hand, on the mushroom. Have a nice fall!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-23_U160	There are no more requests to speak, I will conclude the negotiations and the debate on this crucial national issue. Since we have all decided by vote that today's working day in this large Chamber will last until this item is exhausted, I wish you all the best work in the committees. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 1.35 p.m.
