ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 17th plenary session. Who wants to hand over the drafts and inquiries? Incoming check, please! 75 members of the Riigikogu are present. Does Martin Helme have a procedural question? [[???M. Helme kõneleb kohalt. Hääled saalist: 'Ei kuule! Räägi kõvemini!'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U2	The card didn't register me, I couldn't sign up, I couldn't hand it over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U3	Well, give it to me tomorrow, there's nothing to do. [[???M. Helme kohalt: 'No annan homme.'???]] The handover's over. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! The 'State reform and the fundamentals of good administration' are an important national issue on our agenda today. I will introduce you to the procedure for this debate. On the basis of § 153 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau, on a proposal from the Problem Committee, set out the following procedure for discussing the issue. First, the presentation (up to 20 minutes) and questions and answers (up to 20 minutes) of Rein Taagepera, Professor Emeritus at the University of Tartu and the University of California. The Foundation's Head of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly will then be a presentation (up to 15 minutes) and questions and answers (also up to 15 minutes). Then there will be a presentation by Jaak Aaviksoo (up to 15 minutes), a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Reform Foundation, with up to 15 minutes for questions and answers. Then there is the presentation (up to 15 minutes) and questions and answers (also up to 15 minutes) by Doctor Ülle Madise, Professor of the Chancellor of Justice. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like your attention. A member of the Riigikogu may submit a total of up to two questions to the rapporteurs during the discussion. Four waitresses and you have two questions, you decide who you are asking. The negotiations will then begin. The Commission has proposed that the Bureau agree that the Chair of the Trouble Committee, Tanel Talve, will first take the floor in the negotiations, then the representatives of the political groups and committees and then the members of the Riigikogu will take the floor. If necessary, we will extend the working time of today's sitting. Let's get started. Please, first waitress, Professor Emeritus Rein Taagepera, University of Tartu and University of California!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U5	Good friends! When Estonia came out of the swamp of the Soviet Union, it was necessary to reform not only the state forms, but the entire people. They had to get rid of the counseling habits of communicating with each other. Tough history had made us more angry than we were. That was why we needed to change to become ourselves again. It was necessary to change the culture of communication. Only the people themselves could do this reform. It couldn't be brought in from outside. It could not be injected into the people with good forms of state. This change could only be implemented by the people themselves. And the people did it. Everyone did it for the one who looked back in the mirror. The method of communication in Estonia has moved towards the Nordic method of communication. This increases complacency and, among other things, economic efficiency. Of course, the provisions of an independent state had to decide, and they have quite a good turnout. They have rather contributed to cultural self-reform. This reform of the state was a great deal in the first decades, especially when the requirements of the European Union were added to it. Now the people agree at the same time. On the one hand, we are tired of the constant change in provisions. On the other hand, we are so used to it that it will be a creepy feeling when things remain the same for several years. We have become reform addicts. Let's fight between reform fatigue and reform management. The press amplifies one once, once again. A common boring Nordic country, where nothing changes much, sells fewer leaves. Of course, we have difficulties not only in society but also in governance. Where aren't they? But that's what we tend to forget. Let's imagine that our weight is unique when it's actually global. Let's think about the Toots globe, where only Estonia and Paunvere are on top in the middle of it. Let me take a few examples. They say we have too many old faces in politics. The first graph, divided by the first graph, I hope you've seen it, shows that this really is true in Toots's globe. The current was much higher 20 years ago. Old faces were 51% in the second post-rehabilitation Riigikogu, but 63% are already present. If that were to happen, by 2040 there would be nothing but old faces. But let's go from the Toots globe to the bigger one, add Finland and Denmark to the graph. These are the only Nordic countries whose data was quickly found by the Department of Analysis of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and later Sweden was added. The share of old members has recently fluctuated between 61% and 75% in Denmark, Finland and Sweden. Against the background of this larger globe, it seems that we used to have too much turnover. Right now, we'd rather have old faces. Their share could remain at the current level, as is the case in the Nordic countries. What about the Prime Ministers? We've had seven of them in 20 years, only three in Sweden. Yes, there have also been seven prime ministers in Finland. So we're in the traditional Nordic zone. But again, old faces are too few rather than too many. At the time of my birth, Estonia had two majors in politics. They had guided the people's self-consciousness and independence during the third century. It was consistent, but there was also a risk of being switched. That is why, at the time of the restoration of the state, I was concerned that the age of Edgar Savisaar and Mart Laar could stay too long to lead Estonia. Now I'm worried there's too few of them left. We also have too few old faces compared to long-standing democracies. It has also been complained that the Riigikogu has become a mere rubber stamp that approves the draft laws proposed by the government. The second graph in the division shows that this is really the case for the Toots globe. While only 47% of the draft laws came from the government in the first post-re-re-establishment Riigikogu, the latter before you there were 65% of such drafts. If this were to happen, in 2050 all the draft laws would come from the government. This is the bottom line of the second graph. With the laws that have been passed, it's even worse. At first, only 64% of the laws started in the government, the last time there were 86% of them. If that were to happen, in 2024 all the laws adopted would have been initiated by the government. This is the middle line of the second graph. The worst thing is the success of government draft laws. In the beginning, only 83% of government-led drafts became a law, then recently, a whole 96%. If this were to happen, all the drafts initiated by the government would already be successful. This is the top line of the second graph. It seems that the Riigikogu has indeed become a rubber stamp. But let's take a broader look at Toots' globe. The graph shows that in being a rubber stamp, Estonia really went past Iceland's current parliament 15 years ago, and we will soon reach the level of Finland. But in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, the government initiates more than 96% of the draft laws, we are only 65%. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, in order to be a proper Scandinavian rubber stamp, you will have to work hard for another 30 years. More than 99% of the laws adopted in Finland were also initiated by the government. The rate of success of the draft legislation proposed at the initiative of the government exceeded 97%. Is it a good thing that laws are mostly born on the initiative of the government? That's a question in itself. This question, however, faces much more Scandinavia than we do. During the last 20 years, the Riigikogu has dealt with about 200 draft laws per year. Is that a lot or a lot? In the Nordic countries, this number has recently reached 370 from 84 in Norway to 370 in Finland. So with our 200, we're somewhere in the middle. It's not easy for us. Our people are too small to maintain all the functions of the state. Therefore, at the same time, this country is too thick and too thin. This country is too thick because it requires relatively more public officials than a larger country compared to the population. At the same time, this country is too thin because it still cannot cover all its special needs. If we didn't have to maintain a culture built on our own language, then no crazy person would start creating a country that small. But we have this culture. And this culture is so amazingly strong that it has made possible what is not possible: namely, a country that is at the same time too thick and too thin, but still works. Good friends! Always and everywhere you can make something better. However, what needs to be changed most is often the hardest to change. And then we tend to substitute. If you don't like the picture, we'll change the frame and wonder why the picture still doesn't like it. Our communication culture has become more friendly and caring in 25 years, but it is not yet Nordic. If you set that level, there's still a lot to do. And that's for the whole nation to do. People cannot expect politicians to do this for them. We have to act on our own. I recall that the people have been doing this successfully for 25 years. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You are the servants of the people, and therefore you must not tell your people what to do. But I may, precisely because my words have no formal weight. And I'm gonna say it to the people. In order to really move forward, the reform of the state will not be achieved if there is no ongoing reform of the people. More friendly and caring for someone who looks back in the mirror. It's really human-centred. This is largely possible within the framework of the current institutions. There is no screaming need for new ones. The administrative burden can be reduced and more effective action can also be taken within the current frameworks. You can say things in a simpler and clearer way. You can strive to take responsibility and adapt to new situations. These are good goals and it is good that they are said, as is the draft 'Principles of the state reform for 2030'. But let us avoid two things. First of all, you should not injure yourself into imagining that the Toots globe is quite out of order, and you need to make changes just as big as 25 years ago. We have things and attitudes in pretty good shape and moving on pretty well. Let us compare what they were like ten years ago. Each of us can continue to do even better. But calmly, not in the campaign. Secondly, it is desirable to avoid substitution activities. If the content of the box is uncomfortable, but it is difficult to change the content, you should not change the box and hope that it will affect the content. It makes sense to change the national institutions in the last order, not in the first. The size of the Riigikogu is an example. Across the world, the size of the representative body tends to be the cube root of the population. There's a logical reason for this. It's kind of the same nature of the law as gravity. Things fall down, but only if nothing else changes it. (Flying the sheet of paper on the floor.) You see, this sheet of paper didn't crash directly, but it did. The size of the representative body does not have to be exactly the cube root of the number of inhabitants, but this is the way it is generally aimed at the world. In the case of a people of 1 million people, about one hundred people would be expected, since 100 × 100 × 100 is a million. For the reform of Toots' globe, it is proposed to reduce the size of the Riigikogu to 70. It's a typical substitute. Let's take 70 x 70 x 70 and get a third of a million. Such a large Riigikogu would expect the population to be a third of a million, just like in Iceland. In Iceland, there are MEPs in 70 places, namely 63. What would happen if we were to lower the size of the Riigikogu to 70? The world wouldn't change. The earth continued to revolve around the sun even when the Galileoites were forced to say otherwise. Democratic countries tend to choose, in a cross-section, the size of the representative body, which is a cube root of the population's number, even if the Toots globe is in a different direction. So what the hell. If such a mood exists and there is nothing more effective to do, then lower the size of the Riigikogu to 70. Nothing bad's gonna happen. Not good, either. Just like always when it comes to substitution. But it'd still be a sign. It's a sign that we're already swearing to fading. A sign in the sense that we think small, like there's only a third of a million of us. By twisting the words of Jakob Hurda upside down: "If there is a million of us, we can still think of ourselves spiritually much smaller. ' We'll come back to more general. The state reform risks being a misleading word, in two opposite directions. Firstly, less than a groundbreaking reform is needed. Toots' globe is already in good shape. You don't have to whip yourself like everything's wrong. Secondly, more is needed than just a state reform. People's reform is needed, attitudes reform is needed in society. In fact, it is not a groundbreaking reform, but a calm, persistent pursuit from where it has already been achieved. When you read 'Principles of State Reform 2030', you can see that it is essentially what requires reform in society, that people gradually change themselves. There are officials among these people. The national structure can only encourage or hinder such folk reform to a limited extent. To sum it up. We sometimes imagine difficulties where we don't have them. Sometimes there are difficulties, but they are relatively small within the framework of the world, and no medicine has been found against them elsewhere. Where there are difficulties, continued slow public reform, rather than a direct and abrupt state reform, will mostly be helpful. There may also be some aspects in which national institutions can be programmed, but there are few. Too often, it is a convenient substitute. That's all I have right now. I am prepared to change my views during the debate when there are effective new developments. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U6	Thank you, Professor Rein Taagepera! And now the questions of the members of the Riigikogu. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor Rein Taagepera! In addition to everything else, I liked the irony of your positive undertone when you told me that we still have at least 30 years before we become a proper Scandinavian rubber stamp. But in your speech, you did not touch on the role of directives and regulations of the European Union in the work of the Riigikogu or on the connection with state reform. However, would you please describe the role of the Riigikogu in the context of the European Union now and in the future if it could be done briefly?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U8	Here are two questions. One is how technology has changed, how electronic communication in general changes the connection. I'm not a specialist on this. As far as the European Union is concerned, of course, the European Union has two options: it either breaks down or it becomes a federation. When he becomes a federation, the Riigikogu becomes a representative of a state like California, where I live for half a year, and I live in Tartu. You can see strongly that there are things that are federal, and there are still very, very many things that remain state-owned. How this affects the functioning of the Riigikogu is too early to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U9	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I've repeatedly said that I'm 95% of the same as you, and I'm happy to be able to repeat it again. It is a question of attitudes towards the Constitution. We can literally say that people are roughly divided into two. One of them, we call them constitutional conservatives, considers that the Constitution must be amended only if there is an urgent need for it. Others, we call them constitutional relativisists, would be happy to change the constitution whenever possible and perhaps rewrite the constitution from the cover to the cover at all. I am undoubtedly among the first. But here's the question. Do you see that there are currently obstacles in the Constitution that hinder the future normal development of the Estonian state and which would necessarily need to be changed? Or do you think they're not in the Constitution at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U11	I am impressed by the Norwegian Constitution, which has a large share of the king's duties and duties and then almost as much of the Crown Prince's duties and duties. It is interesting that the Norwegian parliamentary system is capable of operating within the framework of this highly outdated constitution. The Constitution gives the state continuity, certainty, but it is a rock, but only if it is not changed. Much can be done within the same constitution. As soon as the Constitution was completed, it was discovered that the villages had been excluded, reworded and declared municipalities. Done! That's another thing. In the wording finally adopted by the Constitutional Assembly, there was a small provision on Estonian money that would have made it impossible to adopt the euro without amending the Constitution. Strangely enough, when the Constitution was printed, one word had been changed, making it possible to adopt the euro. I don't know who the crook put it in there. I wouldn't recommend taking such a stunt with the Constitution. However, within the framework of the current Constitution, it should be possible to do what the Norwegian Constitution can do by ignoring the Crown Prince.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U12	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Taagepera. I really enjoyed your presentation. Here's my question. What could be the prerequisites for better setting the track record for the reform of the people you have described? What can we do here in the Riigikogu? I agree with the previous questioner that changing the constitution is probably not going to help us much here. Could your so-called paatoo also be summed up in such a way that we have considered this state reform to be a terrible thing for ourselves, and we do not know how to include it? In fact, in every area, perhaps in every ministry, there are a number of small state reforms that would result in some efficiency, savings or a better culture of communication.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U14	Yeah, small, little by little, where some kind of bottleneck appears and developing a culture of communication, because it simplifies things in a wonderful way, unless it seems that there is nothing to be done. But I really don't know how to give more specific instructions or suggestions if I haven't been in direct contact with this situation. It's such a difficult question of what to do about it. So, unfortunately, I owe you a substantive answer. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U15	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U16	Thank you, good Chairman. Thank you, good faculty! Your report today is one of the few reports that have been heard in this Chamber, which will provide positive adrenaline. It's rare in this hall. Thank you for your conclusions. In my opinion, one of the nicest conclusions was that the Estonian people are addicted to reform. In fact, we do not need reforms as such, but we need to change ourselves both as a society and as ambassadors. Are you in agreement with my conclusion in this respect that I also look at the statistics you have produced, that there is no trust in our country, that there is no trust in the people, and that is why we are not flexible, so that, as a small country, we may be able to find many innovative solutions? What could be the time perspective for our society to be more reliable, more self-aware and more demanding of Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U17	The perspective of time is very long and there will also be relapses, as I see now in the United States, where I live for half a year. It's a constant struggle with itself. I have remembered very strongly from the time of the Boy Scouts, and not only have they been remembered, but they have also been understood by the words of the Scouts' evening: 'I am better tomorrow than I was today, I am better tomorrow than I was yesterday. " It is not the hope that tomorrow I will wake up and be a morally, ethically, or in any way, a completely different person, but tomorrow I will try to do a little better, a little more trusting. If it doesn't work tomorrow, then there's no deep sadness, but I'll try again the day after tomorrow. Trust is undoubtedly needed for our people, for each of us and for members of the Riigikogu as well. If we trust too much, then sometimes something bad happens and we see that we have trusted another person too much. It's a negative case. If we don't, it's likely that very often there's something good going on, something pretty going on, whether between a boy and a girl or in the family or in the country, but it's a positive non-case because it didn't happen. So we have a tendency to trust too little. Again, in more detail, I don't know what to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable professor emeritus! In your report, you mentioned that we are, as if, trapped in reforms, and we cannot do without reforms. But can you give me a prescription or describe the situation why? Is this because we are a young and evolving democratic state and want to catch up very quickly with so-called Western democracies, or is there some other reason that forces governments to constantly reform rather than to preserve important good things? The word 'fine-tuning' is not actually acceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U20	Undoubtedly, 25 years ago, we had to change a huge number of things quickly, and this reform dependency situation remains. If it stays calm, we will have something compared to the nineties and compared to the last decade when we joined the European Union, like a creepy feeling that nothing is going to happen. It is advisable to acknowledge that we are in this situation. As with alcoholism or any addiction, the first step is to say that we have this tendency. So can we face it, that's another thing, but at least we know it's like this. It is not necessarily necessary to go along with any technological and other innovation. 20 years ago, Estonian universities moved to three-year undergraduate studies instead of four years of age with great hurrah. I would say that there are no catastrophic results, but there are extremely poor results. However, at that time we were informed that it was the Bologna system, and if all European countries are going that way anyway, we will do it very quickly. It turned out that this was a recommendation, not a requirement, and the main aim was that England's two-year undergraduate studies would, however, extend to three years. So it is important not always to be at the forefront just to be at the forefront, but sometimes to consider things more slowly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U21	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Professor Taagepera, it was extraordinarily refreshing to hear your presentation. I have this belief that your ideas and proposals have been a driving force for our country over the years. The subject of my question is similar to that of my colleague, Mr Herkel. I would ask what exactly do you think this reform of the people is? Are there countries that could be taken as examples, where such things have been done? Who could be the one who puts it in such a way that those who could be subjected to this reform would be happy to accept it? Because an ex-human swan-haug-and-cancer-mentality, so if someone's suggesting something, there's necessarily 90% of those who think it's an extraordinarily stupid idea. How do we carry out good folk reform, and what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U23	It doesn't happen everywhere, but in some places more than on the other side. One refugee Estonian who grew up in Sweden and later lived in Canada has said that America says that everything is good, but I am the best, but in Europe, he meant Western Europe, they say that everyone is crippled, but I am the least crippled. At some scientific conferences in Europe, I have heard about this comment after the presentation: 'Professor it and it is, after all, well known throughout the world. How can he not know that this is not what he said? ' And then there comes a story that the waitress may reject, but the questioner has put himself in a position where, even if the answer is good, he is still obliged to say that this is not the case. In that case, I felt very clear that there would be more comments in America that this was an excellent presentation, but I have a small question and I am sure that the waitress will be able to respond satisfactorily. And then there could be a big, big sting, something pretty unrequiteable. So the starting point for human communication, not just in court, is either that my opponent, my partner, is guilty until he can prove he's innocent, or that he's innocent at first, until it's obvious that he's done something wrong. I often express myself clumsy. I prefer to write because then I can file words. Orally, I say things awkwardly, and then there is the choice of whether my words will be adopted in the worst sense of how they can be interpreted, or adopted in the best sense of how my words can be interpreted. If people are already aware that things can be taken as positively or as negatively as possible, then people may find that they may have been too prone to the negative side. Every year the Forest University holds a seminar on conflict prevention in Tartu. The subject of my presentation there is how to prevent conflicts and avoid excessive sharpness, considering them as witty, and how to accept it in the best tone, not the worst when someone says something crazy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U24	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Taagepera, thank you very much for your intelligent and spiritual speech. Estonia is small, Estonians are few, but we are also very rich. Foreign Estonian communities are big and strong enough to support us, i.e. the country, the people and also the culture in every way. Do you think that we have been able to make the right use of the potential benefits, benefits, support from the entire circles of external Estonia, and is there a need for a change of attitude here too?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U26	Well, if a world nut like me is talking to you right now, I guess we've managed to take advantage of the outside Estonians. In general, however, I hope that as little Estonians as possible will leave Estonia. The foreign representation, yes, gives something from the outside, but it reduces the population and the language doesn't stay abroad. Me and Mare were able to convey Estonian to three children, but only two of the seven grandchildren speak Estonian. It's a reality. I come back to the previous question: do we have anyone to learn from? I'd say it's unfortunately not. I think that if you look at all the post-Soviet countries of Eastern Europe, where the distrust was very deep, you can see that Estonia has perhaps best come out of this situation. I recently had a conversation with a Slovak doctoral student. I really don't want to be in the slovak skin because I felt how much they had mutual mistrust. From there, Estonia looks like a Nordic country. And that's what we are, we're already halfway through the Soviet swamp to the Nordics.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U27	Thank you very much, Professor Rein Taagepera. Unfortunately, the time for answering the questions has passed. The next waitress is the Head of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, Teele Pehk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U28	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Professor Taagepera! I will bring you back to the Estonian context and not to this Toots globe. Maybe I'm offering some solutions on how to do this folk reform, maybe I'm talking about what's good and what we can do even better. I'll do it in two examples. First I'm gonna talk about the Anija Switch and then I'm gonna talk about the popular initiatives. Do any of you know what Anija Switch is? Very good, Arthur Talvik would know. It is the accelerator of community cooperation around Kehra city with over 6,000 people. This spring, local volunteers organised this for the second time. First, ideas were gathered from the residents on how to improve the place of residence. Then the local experts, i.e. the body formed by them, assessed whether each proposal still represented the public interest and whether it was feasible. Then the teams were helped to form, equipped with the necessary tools or working methods, and 24 of the selected ideas were put into practice on the 12-hour day of operation. With the help of the parish and local entrepreneurs, for example, organized playgrounds, park areas, kindergarten yard, classrooms. It also discussed how to get a rapid connection to the Internet and how to organise waste management more environmentally. All this with the power and advice of 300 people. Indeed, many of the activities that have been carried out are things that should be cared for as if by the parish. At the same time, if there is will and energy on the ground, then the role of the municipality is, after all, to enable rather than hinder. Now another example, the popular initiatives. There is not much to explain to you, you know very well that the right to submit proposals collectively to the Riigikogu came about thanks to the Riigikogu in 2013. The aim was to create wider opportunities for participation in the organisation of social life. Through the People's Initiative.ee, two years ago, a thousand digital signatures have already sent 19 proposals to parliamentary committees. Each week, new initiatives and discussions are added to the participatory environment, and the public initiative community is on the rise. However, four years after this right of collective redress has been in place, there are few results. It is not about legislation, creating new laws or changing existing ones, rather pointing out problems, proposing solutions, launching a public debate or reaching a common decision. For example, through the second coming of the Riigikogu, the new age community, coping with old age and the issue of care insurance came to this very hall as a matter of national importance. Why am I even telling you these examples? Do they have anything in common? What is common is that both Anija Lühit, as a method of community development, and the popular initiative as a way to participate more widely, are in our social order today as stumpy plants. They have not been created favourable conditions for growth to spread and flourish, which is why our state organisation has not used the development reserve of joint creation. Why else will Anija Lühiti take place for more than two years, not regularly, and also in other places in Estonia? Why else do the Riigikogu committees view these appeals as letters from concerned citizens, which only need to be answered politely, four years after the creation of the right of collective appeal? I'm generalising right now. Otherwise, why do the authors of the popular initiative struggle to get these thousands of digital signatures together, even in an experienced advocacy organization? Let's look at today's state order. It acts as a pyramid with political will (or unwillingness) at the top, within the pyramid the isolated towers of ministries are narrowly guided by development plans and at the bottom of the pyramid are the people who need to be involved in some sort of regularisation of decisions. But with this arrangement, as members of society, we waste too much energy, brains, knowledge and nerve cells in opposition to fear, anger, proof of our positions or knowledge. At the same time, phenomena such as inclusive budgets, which were also part of Anija's switch, similar popular initiatives, co-creation, crowdfunding, strategic philanthropy, self-making culture, voluntary as a way of life, effective altruism, social entrepreneurship, spontaneous networks and community movements, raise our minds, as well as elsewhere in the world. If we want to be an innovative and human-friendly country, we need to figure out very quickly how to inject this co-creational flow into our society, how to make these phenomena and practices circulate into the smart Estonian bloodstream. We need to overcome the conflict between representative bodies and our own initiative and cooperation. Now you're asking how. Couple of tips. Prior to the launch of the Anija Lühit, the local residents agreed with the representatives of the local government that no local resident's idea could be answered 'cause there is no money' or 'this is not the way to do it, because it has always been done in a different way'. Instead, it was agreed that we could and we could do much better together. How can we extend this collective effort to the national level? How can we turn on our social organization in a new way? How did Anijah switch to similar activities, as well as to popular initiatives, to build general confidence in cooperation and co-creation and thus to build general confidence? What if we turned the pyramid of today's state order into something like this? There would be socially agreed long - term goals in the upper, large part that serve the well - being and happiness of each individual. The focus of this reverse pyramid would be on co-creation, partnership, discussion culture, cooperation skills, the use of digital opportunities to achieve these long-term goals, the whole flow that I described earlier. At the bottom of the reversed pyramid, there would be an administration that would allow NGOs and businesses to do things in cooperation, create a favourable environment for co-creation, assist those in need and ensure conditions, but neither hinder nor over-regulate. This has already been done in the city of Helsinki; instead of dozens of agencies, four areas have been created and the citizen-centred participatory model has been re-thinked and organised. Estonia has all the prerequisites, we are a small, flexible country with smart people and digitalities. In 25 years, we have learned about the focus of processing and compliance with the law. What if, in the next few decades, we learn about a civil-centred system of government? A user-centred country helps people to be happy. Dutch sociologist Ruut Veenhoven has proved that there is a direct link between administrative management and people's satisfaction in life. The less bureaucracy and legislation there is, the better officials, stakeholders, associations and businesses can deal with important issues. The more trust and a supportive environment, the more strategic and effective citizens' initiatives, social entrepreneurship, voluntary actions will have. The more open and common agreements or strategies with more owners will be implemented, the less need to monitor the progress of this change. The more open data is, the easier it is to find the causes of the wicked problems and create user-centred solutions. Finally. Think of how much time and energy we would save if we learned to act as members of society for common goals. If we focus our energy on cooperation and co-creation, more powerful and effective solutions are very likely to emerge than today. Imagine how Anija, Valga and Võnnu Lüüti, for example, build joint apartments for elderly and young families, organise a person-to-person driving service in the residential area, solve complex environmental problems and test new models thanks to effective public initiatives. Even a model that Finland is already experimenting with (constructive discussion culture and digital diplomats in conflict resolution) or a model such as Scotland, where the government assesses its progress and progress towards the human rights and sustainable development objectives on the basis of a pre-agreed framework. We all have a role to play in improving cooperation skills. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U29	Thank you, Teele Pehk! Questions for the co-chairman. Please, Helmut Hallemaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the presentation to the waitress. The previous speaker, Professor Rein Taagepera, spoke about the reform of the people, but I would have liked to ask him about the reform of the people's servants. This is a symbol, but its content is what could be used to enhance the work of the Riigikogu. I will ask you for the opinion of the Cooperation Council and the opinion of the Cooperation Council President, which would be a couple of recommendations that would make the work of this Chamber more efficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U31	As early as 2015, the Cooperation Council established a country governance plan where these recommendations exist. You all know them very well. But I would perhaps draw attention to this very debating democracy, which Professor Taagepera also said: that we better justify and argue things and how we decide on important issues at all. Perhaps this whole system should be modernised and jointly agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U32	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U33	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! The same debating democracy and all that the reform of the people could pursue, how do you feel? I know this is a very large generalisation, but does our education system and school education support such an approach to the world, or is there a need for some kind of reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U34	I am not going to speak about the education system because I am not an expert. But when we talk more about civic education and not only about school pupils, but about how much people know about their rights and their opportunities to influence or participate in something, and how, for example, the public sector empowers these opportunities and creates these conditions, it has to be said that systematic civic education is at a very weak level in Estonia, I dare say that. There are individual initiatives, but they do not cover the whole need, certainly not. Yes, I can throw this ball that systematic civic education needs much more attention in Estonia than it has done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U35	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The previous speaker, Mr Taagepera, pointed out some times to the Kingdom of Norway; you talked a lot about your own initiative and cooperation. I will get back to this Estonian Parliament with my question. Do you think that, driven by community movement, the position in the Estonian parliament should be similar to that in the Norwegian Parliament, i.e. planting not by group but by circles from which mandates have been obtained? Perhaps the location in this hall reflects who you really have to stand up for?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U37	It's a complicated question. Perhaps I did not say before about the role of the Riigikogu in the reform of the people, that the principles of democracy that are debating will be transferred here exactly the same way. This should be where the pulpit or role model of such a discussion culture is supposed to be. I think this can also be done in today's Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U38	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U39	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress, thank you! Changes in society usually take place by means of positive examples. You also gave two positive examples. When we look at the system of governance as a whole and at its various levels, the local government, the lawmaking, the executive power, we see that they all have a very important role to play in our society. If you are determined to achieve a discursive democracy, what do you think is the basis for introducing it or raising self-awareness? I'm also presenting my vision. I think maybe it's the local government because it's the closest to the grass root. However, as self-awareness of local government grows with the help of self-conscious citizens, it may also be able to ask and demand more of the rulers at national level. Do you share this view, and are there levers for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U40	Yeah, I think there are levers. We already have these elements, there have been two communities of people in this very spirit, but there is not always a body of people to follow the principles of discussion. What is the basis for everything in a discussion culture? Equality (all have equal say, no hierarchy), openness (this process can all be monitored and accessed) and justification, argumentation. If these three conditions are met, we can promote a discussion culture every day. But the role of local government is certainly important. Even now, these conditions and platforms can be created. I am not only talking about digital platforms because, as Beth Noveck, who was here last week, said, the technology expert, that technology itself does not make any system more democratic or debatable, it still needs to be dealt with separately and systematically. In the same way, every discussion process needs to be designed and carried away and to see where it is going. Not so that the decision made needs to be fixed, but we need to see what the mechanism is, how and with whom we can get there. All of this has to be designed. At local level, these levers exist, but once again, very often at local level, civic education is also needed, so that what is at all the role of the council, the role of council members, is the role of civil servants, what are their rights and what are their limitations. There, too, is room for improvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U41	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Any politician's wish could be that there would always be someone who would argue with him, because disputes could reveal the truth and thus be the best solution. But it seems to me that in the case of this co-governance, the confusing factor is that some come from emotion, others from regulation. How do you think active citizens and people in political decision-making can get more in line?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U43	It's through discussion, I'm saying. But it is a cultural question of how much we trust each other, how we can work together in the first place and how we set long-term, or even short-term, common goals. The founding fathers do a lot of things for the public interest; they want to improve the local environment. The question is how the municipality is using this whole flow vigorously. We will never have such a strong civil society that all sectors and areas of life are covered, represented by someone. You can't expect that. But those who already operate are such a valuable resource that they need to be constantly watered and... 'Feed' is perhaps a bit of a bad word. They need to be kept.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U44	Thank you, Teele Pehk, Head of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly! Our next waitress is Academician Jaak Aaviksoo, this time as a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Reform Foundation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U45	Good President! Dear former and new colleagues! This time, as I said, state reform. In fact, the title of my presentation is 'Why the state reform for Estonia? '. If we type the word'state reform' in Google, we get a response of 142000 within 0.26 seconds, the word'state revolution' will give a 98000 and the word 'fine-tuning' will give a 21000 response. The frequencies of 'Constitution' and 'Estonia' provide the right framework for this term, 468000 and 213 million times, respectively. I believe that an understanding of Estonia, the Constitution, today's topic of discussion, marked by the word'state reform', and some other activities concerning the country will be clarified here. Therefore, I believe that, when people use this word to represent very different, perhaps even incompatible things, this use of words shows some growing dissatisfaction with our current system of living and state. This feeling of dissatisfaction is not a state-destroying hatred, neither a narrow-minded pursuit of self-interest, nor an ideological obsession, nor a simple human jealousy. I believe that it is largely borne by the care and love of Estonia; it is borne by the faith of the Estonian state and by the feeling of many people that it will actually be much better. Attorney Jüri Raidla has promoted this idea in the longest and most consistent way, but today the founders of the state reform.ee Ott Pärna and Tanel Talve, together with employers and Praxis, and the draft decision on the basis of the state reform, on the government's website we find a plan for the reform of the state and in the Riigikogu a problem committee with today's discussion and preparation of the draft decision on the basis of the state reform. A little less than a month ago, 28 Estonian entrepreneurs were founded by Jüri Raidla under the leadership of the State Reform Foundation, with the aim of developing the concept of state reform, transferring it to political parties preparing for elections in the Riigikogu in the autumn and then contributing to its possible implementation through the development of drafts and implementing legislation. The National Reform Foundation is available on the website of the state innovation.ee. The word is, in my opinion, even a more appropriate aura than'state reform'. As has already been said, the foundation hopes to complete its work in a year's time. So it may seem like a run-of-the-mill venture or a real substitute, just like this speech chair has sounded. However, considering how many people and how much has taken up the issue of state reform over the last few years, it cannot be born out of nowhere. Dear Riigikogu! I'm honored to present here as a member of the Foundation Council. I share the foundation's vision and understanding of the need for state reform, but although my thoughts feed on the same soil, I do not represent the foundation with my presentation, at least not formally, and the responsibility for everything that is said here rests only on my shoulders. So why the reform of the state for Estonia? The basic document of our country, the Constitution and the fundamental principles of statehood contained therein, are well for us, one might even say, to have served very well. On this basis, we have restored and built a functioning state and found global recognition and support from our friends by joining the European Union and NATO. This is a good and secure constitution, and Estonia is a good country. We have developed and promoted a re-independence Estonian state for a generation, but we have also come to know him. During this generation, the world has changed around us, and we are not even the same. Our desires and dreams have grown, and some things need to be thoroughly reviewed. In many households today, there is still an old custom of cleaning every once in a while, opening all the windows, bringing carpets into the yard and taking dust not only from the closet but also from under and behind the closet. More detailed drawers also clean up where it is becoming increasingly difficult to find the necessary items and which often do not go down again. The idea of state reform also carries something like this. It all begins with the understanding that living needs tidying up and can no longer be delayed. There'll be some interesting things during the cleaning. Some of them have already forgotten, some things need to be fixed, some are desperately worn out and need to be replaced, and some things that we have forgotten in the drawer have not really been needed. The furniture needs to be redeployed and a room or a little corner can find a new breathing. The biggest surprise is the drawers. Carefully putting things back on the floor thoughtfully always reveals that at first the hopelessly packed drawer is finally half empty. As we approach the other way, starting to think about what a transitional drawer could throw away to save space, we will never achieve this result. Of course, state reform is not all state-cleaning, but primarily concerns the most important issues of government and government. The state innovations have put it this way: 'The state reform is a reorganisation of a public authority organisation with a review of functions and services performed by the public authorities and an adjustment of the mechanisms of action. " All of this requires that we have a common understanding of how power can be reorganized and what the tasks of public authority are. Of course, all these issues are important political choices and, of course, parties have largely different answers to these questions, not to mention the fact that they have a faction of interest. However, on the basis of the discussions that have already taken place, it can be concluded that there is quite a shared role in understanding a number of problems and that it is not necessarily a hopeless desire to find consensus, even by offering solutions. It is clear that there is a need for quite high political consensus in order to adopt possible amendments to the Constitution that arise during the process of state reform. However, with one stage of the administrative-territorial reform that forms part of the state reform, we have managed through two coalitions and major difficulties. What could be the other issues of state authority where consensus can be found? Firstly, in recent years we have witnessed a concentration of power in the hands of the executive, at the expense of the Riigikogu, but also of the judiciary. It is probably worth considering seriously how to strengthen the position of parliament in Estonia's power structure, increasing its capacity and also its responsibility. How this should affect the number of Members of Parliament is really not a priority. However, it would be strange if we started to increase it. The idea is to increase the independence of the judiciary, while ensuring democratic control and capacity building in the courts as well. Secondly, much and rightly has been said about official barriers that do not solve many of the problems that each authority sees only from its own ends. Strengthening the status of government and prime minister would probably help here, with greater horizontal mobility for officials. When you read the Constitution, you will see that the Minister is seen there as the Chief Executive of the Ministry, yet there are practices in the world where the political leader plays a completely different role in the management of the ministry's life than today's signatory, responsible for everything and, in any third case, considering resignation. Thirdly, the status of local authorities needs to be clarified, as well as the basis for their funding. However, half of the task was still outstanding in the administrative-territorial reform. Fourthly, as an increasing burden on citizens and businesses, as well as on other persons, our expanding and increasingly normal-centred legal space and the bureaucracy that organises its implementation rests on our shoulders. It is a misunderstood rule of law and, as part of it, the absurd principle of legal certainty. The logic and organisation of legislation would certainly need a fresh look. Fifthly, perhaps we could review this whole matter of power, perhaps there are areas where this public authority is not so much needed, and we could trust citizens and other people much more. Sixthly, public authority receives political support, mainly because of the services provided to the electorate, from which it is understandable that it is increasingly willing to offer them. We have gradually increased this package of services, using European Union subsidies in recent years too, but it is becoming clear that we will no longer be able to bear this burden if we continue to do so. You need to think about what to take and what to leave. Seventhly, even where public services are justified and necessary, it is worth considering more cooperation with the private sector, both to increase competition and to increase flexibility. Eighthly, one important aspect is, of course, global technological development. It is clear that this does not go unnoticed either. Here we can wait and see what others, bigger, smarter and more powerful, do in front of us. But there is another way: to be a pioneer, a leader who sets an example for others. Why, then, is the reform of the state or the renewal of the mother tongues? I guess it's for tomorrow to be better than today. One might ask, as Professor Taagepera of the previous speaker did, whether our lives will not really improve unless the country is reformed. He'll heal and heal. But a modern, graceful and appropriate country will certainly be there for us. It is not impossible, rather it is quite likely that a slightly lighter and less predictable state will give many people the strength and energy to do something about it. Much is said about our small size, our shrinking population and our ageing population, and it is done in a sad but kind of benevolent tone, pointing to this as an inevitability. I don't know what kind of attitude and pessimism is. What Estonia has done in the last 30 years, we have at times, not to mention our friends, also considered impossible. I don't see the need for any sparing contractions. After all, Estonia's life and the innovation of its own country are necessary to grow our faith in the future. And don't tell me that 13,000 children a year are the ceiling of our faith. We have proven ourselves that this is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U46	Thank you, Jaak Aaviksoo! Questions about Academician Jaak Academician. Thomas Paur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U47	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Mr. Academician Jaak Aaviksoo! As we know, state reform can be carried out on the basis of the Constitution. How do you think that a state reform can be carried out without amending the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U48	It's not. But if you respond a little more substantively and in length, I think that if you discuss the reform of the state in substance, it turns out that some things could also be different in the Constitution. Exactly, I can't tell you and I can't say the State Reform SA today, but there are certain questions. It is quite rigid to say that the country cannot be improved without changing the constitution, certainly it cannot. There are a number of things that really hang away from political attitudes, political culture, or even from the people, voters and our wider democratic way of life. But I believe, coming back to my initial response, that in order to make the country really easier, more flexible, more supple, a number of issues need to be reviewed in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U49	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U50	Thank you, good waitress. I will turn to the question of what should not be done in Estonia. This is one of the main arguments in a number of speeches by economic operators, public reformers. They say we do too much. But to be more specific and ask what should not be done, which really would have an impact, and what would be a major change for either our 10-billion-dollar budget or the 130,000 public sector employees, then usually the thread of conversation and thought will be interrupted. You also made an example of cleaning the drawer and throwing away half the stuff. Could this idea be developed more concretely and indeed put forward some proposals with greater impact on what should not be done in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U51	I like this provocative proposal in itself. With regard to the Riigikogu, we have come to the understanding that there is too much to halve, it will help if there are 30 fewer members. But a little more seriously, I do not believe that targets should be set in such a way that we must necessarily halve everything. Some purpose must be set and halving is likely to be more or less the same as the fact that the composition of the Riigikogu must be reduced. But let's come to a few specific things. Let's look at education. Gradually, through great disputes and troubles, we have realized that the Estonian school network created after regaining independence was beyond our control and our senses. We have drawn it together to a significant extent, but I believe that everyone who looks at it calmly, impartially and aside from their personal or even factional interests will see that there is still room for savings here, whether it be in primary schools, secondary schools, vocational schools or also in higher education and universities. A little more political is the subject of many social benefits. Let's think about it, I have thought about it myself, and there are others in this Chamber who find it hard to understand why child support must also be distributed to families where coping is two, three, four, five or ten times better than in Estonia on average. Although I understand ideologies that all children declare equal. Or we could take culture. Can we be sure to the end that all these subsidies, which we sometimes share more generously than many other countries, go to the point of not creating addiction, not removing creators from the end users of creation, not practicing them to receive recognition and support from folklore, not from readers and viewers? More or less in the same way, we could look at business grants, which, with the support of the European Union's taxpayers, are sometimes quite insanely distributed and for which the beneficiaries themselves, or at least their fellow tsunamis, say that it is better that they do not exist. We ourselves here, Estonian farmers and politicians among others, have discussed how we would do if European agricultural subsidies were to disappear at all, and have come to the understanding that the Estonian farmer would probably do better. Jne, et cetera. As this debate progresses, there will be more of these proposals. And if you're missing your mind, next time you ask me again, I'll keep talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U52	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U53	Thank you. Mr Aaviksoo! Can't it be that we are doing too much of this state innovation near the people and too little of the people farther away? I'm looking at my story. As a young man, I worked as the head of the municipality of Kaisma, which then, 2009, joined Vändra municipality. There was now a new merger, a merger, perhaps in fact people have changed their way of life in the context of the municipality of Northern Pärnumaa. I've been the head of the local government union. In essence, it can be said that the local government association, as such, is no longer present, has been replaced by the development centre. For five years, I've worked as a governor of the country. I've worked for rural governments when they're gone. Pärnu City Council, the chairman of which I am, has started a new merger with Sauga. Doesn't that seem too unbalanced to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U54	If I understand this correctly, this question could be paraphrased in such a way that we do not want to reform the country from the citizens and collect it here in Toompea, Tallinn or other centres. I think that public reformers, those who really think about it at the level of the regime and constitution, have focused more on the top of power, not on the bottom. But it is true that the administrative-territorial reform, which was not accompanied by a sufficiently thoughtful and strong debate on monetary issues and which was sometimes too much sent out of the message of austerity, rather than the message of raising quality and professionalism, could have given this impression. I'm sure that's unfortunate. As far as the society of the State Reform Foundation is concerned, as far as I am concerned, of these texts, but also of the individual people, I have been able to conclude that it is the opposite. We should have significantly more substantive subsidiarity and significantly less concentrated power.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U55	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress Jaak Aaviksoo! The two previous speakers still came to the conclusion in their discussions that education, attitudes and attitudes are the foundations of state reform or state renewal. You have been involved in the education system at higher education and scientific level in a very long and detailed manner. How much does our entire education system need to be rethinked and perhaps modernised throughout this state innovation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U57	Professor Rein Taagepera made one very important conclusion in my opinion, which we sometimes tend to forget, but sometimes we have said the opposite: Estonian life in general and culture in Western or even northern European terms have progressed considerably throughout this generation. Substantially advanced! True, with the admission that it's a long way to go. I have to say, I don't know exactly where anymore, but I should go. It is also probably true that the reform of statehood or self-being in the deepest sense must, of course, concern the whole of society, the citizenry and the various associations and associations. But when I return to the heart of this question, I do not believe that the Estonian education system is a brake. We would not be sitting in this Chamber today as we are, we would not be talking about state reform and would not have progressed as a state and a nation if this education system were not suitable for anything. It must also have some good features that it is conservative and, despite even the relief ministers, it does not change quickly enough for many. I guess that's kind of a good thing. But gradually we have also changed the education system. I, too, have stood here on the stand and tried to turn it on faster than the left wing of the hall wishes, but the right side has helped a bit again, so the education system has not stood still either. Can we start with the education system? No! The education system is still a natural memory facility. Maybe not as strong a memory facility as museums, but he's holding onto the wisdom gathered with his nails and what's proven to be waterproof and resistant to the test of time. If we push new ideas too lightly for a growing generation, even more, to indoctrinate them in this direction, then we can end up with sowing commissioners and hungvei benches. History is full of such examples. So I believe that the state reform certainly concerns the education system, but it should not be started there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U58	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Reverend Academician! In your speech, you indicated that the reform was ongoing and had little to do with the issue of municipal funding. What exactly did you mean by that? Did you have in mind the distribution of certain revenues and whether it was only the distribution of revenues or the redesign of services, including the transfer to the local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U60	I think that the relationship between local government and state is, in fact, open to us, not only monetary but also constitutional. We will see this debate from time to time, not only during the reform, but, for my sake, even in the case of the pulp mill, we will see it on the issue of the salaries of school teachers, we will see it in many other cases where it is unclear how far the local government's ability to decide for itself, how to resolve conflicts of general national and local interest and how to deal with the local government at all. This is partly due to the wording used in the Constitution, partly because there are different practices in the world, and partly because our historical experience has been such that freedom and justice, once again won in revolutionary times, tends to be declared absolute at different levels, or that freedom is thought to be infinite. So I don't think this question can be reduced to money, but in money, it's the brightest thing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U61	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, A rational democratic state regulates as little as possible and as much as necessary. You have experience at different levels, as a practical politician, legislator and member of the government, now you can look at all this independence from an academic point of view. I ask why they tend to over-regulate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U63	I've been thinking about this a lot. One simple example. The law of the university, adopted in 1995 in this very hall, was 11 pages, and today it has expanded to 27 pages. What they don't regulate! Partly because I wanted to do better, partly because there was an accident somewhere, then the culprits began to be sought, and the culprits, in order to avoid hearing such accusations, began to defend themselves with a mound of law. I think that one of the sources of overregulation is the desire of decision-makers at different levels, officials, but also politicians, middle-level or sub-level managers to be clarified. But with clarity, legal clarity comes with another great thing: then you're not responsible for anything. So, on the one hand, it is a kind of protection against the consequences of different decisions, including misdecisions. If the law says, and I'm following the line, no one can blame me for anything. There is another problem that is likely to be borne by misinterpreted rule of law and legal certainty. We say that everything is done on the basis of the law and the documents issued on the basis of it. The interpretation is that it would be better if everything was in the law, it would be clear to the end, no one should take risks and it would be good and comfortable to live in a society without risks. It is not understood that the mechanism that ensures this certainty is burdensome and that an ever faster changing world always goes against too rigid rules. Surely the people also have the expectation that a certain fortress has been created, especially a fortress guaranteeing their own rights. So our belief in law, the judicial system that has protected us from oppression and maladministration over the centuries, the defence of officials' tsunamis, the political desire to solve problems, all of which have caused excessive concentration in the norm and the law, and insufficient attention has been paid to reasonable decisions and the related liability at all levels of decision-making, from individuals, institutions and organisations, ministries, ministers and government to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U64	Thank you, academic Jaak Aaviksoo! We ran out of time to answer questions. Our fourth waitress is Professor Ülle Madise, the Chancellor of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U65	Honourable Riigikogu! Good waitresses! Good guests! I also agree that no state or society can be so good that it cannot get any better. And if anything is certain, it's just that the world changes all the time. Doesn't that mean that we too must constantly change the way we work, and also ourselves, for the better if we succeed. When we talk about reforms, I believe that there should be a clear distinction between three levels. First of all, and this is the most important level, are the decisions that shape Estonia's life, the political choices that you make in this Chamber, on the basis of the mandate of the people, be they health, economic, tax, social, environmental or educational policies, the quality of these decisions, their future performance. That is the main question: how to raise the bar of politics, how to increase the demand for reasonable decisions by the people? Secondly, when planning reforms, we need to see if the so-called "state machine" I know that this term is bad, but I am using it for short-lived reasons, and it meets the requirements of today and the future: good administration of institutions, maximum commitment of every state-paid person to the service, efficiency and effectiveness of people. Thirdly, what depends on the least, but what has been said the most, or constitutional equilibrium: our fundamental rights, our constitutional institutions and the division of power between them. It is this third one that is the easiest and most festive to change and reform. True, people's lives will not change from this, certainly not for the better, neither will the economy. The state machine must be kept in order at all times, it is a little more difficult to reform than to rewrite the constitution, but it is also to be done. The most difficult and, at the same time, the most important thing is what concerns the substantive decisions that will take us to the future. In the three dimensions mentioned above, it is worth asking, first, what is the problem, what is the reason for this, and then logically decide what is suitable for the solution. When the solution's here, let's test it. It's not complicated. You have to imagine how life would have been if the new regime had already been in place and answer questions that would be different, whether it would have been different and if it had been, whether it would be better. Unfortunately, some solutions, such as the idea of a different model of governance, tend to create an excessive, mind-deferring enthusiasm. Well, that's how rational, scientific-based and logical reform work doesn't provide enough entertainment for either the performer or the audience. That is why, of course, I understand the need for colorful slogans, meters and drum roll, but by their side and behind could be wise, result-oriented and logical work. So, our fundamental constitutional question: how to ensure the survival of the Estonian language, nationality and culture; well-being, peace, clean environment, freedom, justice. I will start with the most important, the one on which it depends most and what is most difficult to change. Perhaps whether election candidates can offer constructive ideas and receive public support. No legal provision here will help, neither the amendment of the Constitution nor anything else. Moreover, if we begin to regulate the heart of democracy, or the will and feelings of the people, it will no longer be democracy. I think that in order for it to be good to live here in Estonia, we should boldly develop our advantages. We have plenty of space and lots of clean nature, such as the beach and forest open to everyone. We have a small, special Estonian language that creates a quality of thinking in its own right. This, too, is our advantage, not our disadvantage, as is the popular education faith. As a small and smart society, we can quickly make innovative decisions: a mandatory ID card, thanks to this digital signature, numerous e-services such as digital prescription, e-Tax Board or civic portal. In other parts of the world, it's all just look at the utopia. We have calm, reasonable, and wise people. It's all an advantage. In maximising these advantages, I think we need to figure out the solutions that are right for us here, not to run after others, not to try to copy the past, or worse, to go the easier way of resisting and to change what is easy to change, which is that nothing will change, at least not for the human being and at least not for the better. For example, taxation: it is certainly possible to find new taxes to obtain revenue for the state, still so that the base be wide, the rate low and easy to recover. For example, environmental protection: Let the landowner and the protected eagle live side by side. Jne. Anything's possible. Even if we should have more dependants at one point than income earners, we will still be able to improve everyone's life by acting wisely, earn more income and, at the same time, maintain a good education, health and social system, as well as order and national defence. It is important to keep such an environment here so that it is here that the best place to invent and develop a smart industry is best. All of this requires a kind and free spirit. Everyone. So let us amplify our advantages. Secondly, Estonia could boldly take advantage of the mistakes of others and turn them in its favour. It is the decisions of the Riigikogu and the government that determine whether or not the welfare of Estonia is growing. Only together can change here, the people in their expectations and all the political forces in their offers. It may sound unattainable, but it really can't be any other way, let's be honest. Of course, it can be said that much more value will be created in Estonia than the model of governance will be changed. If it were that simple, it would probably have been done a long time ago, but unfortunately the division of powers of constitutional institutions has little to do with economic growth. If any, this link speaks in favour of balanced and sensible governance, or the current model. Unfortunately, this most important deficiency cannot be treated by rewriting the Constitution or by putting in a state machine unless there is a intention to treat the headache with guillotine. Ladies and gentlemen! A state machine, yes, it needs consistent care and possibly one of the major changes now. The key to this isn't exactly entertaining. We need country-manship at every level; we need everyone to do their job very well every day. I understand that this does not seem ambitious enough: a lot of hard work every day, little passion and the only measure that everyone asks every day what he did for people today, whether he was working today or whether he solved it today. Unfortunately, we see a great deal of processing, processing and processing in the office of Chancellor of Justice. However, if someone wishes to put up a state machine in the campaign, I suggest that we look back at 1999 and subsequent years, when the enthusiasm for performance management brought considerable costs. Hundreds of officials tried to pull the Estonian state onto the model of a public limited company. A huge cost was found that the state cannot and must not be run like a public limited company, because the democratic rule of law is not a public limited company. The state cannot choose 'customers', 'customer' is also 'owner' and there is no place for bankruptcy masters. In addition to the increase in administrative costs, we received even more fragmentation, less co-operation and excellently trained officials who, in fear of metrics and errors, fail to do their basic work, or in any legitimate way, to serve people's interests, rather than do nothing. Specific proposals to be made. First, give up everything you don't need to do: for example, rewrite the law, artificial, meaningful reporting, hypocritical actions. Secondly, the completion of projects designed purely for the roll-out of euro money aimed at improving, improving and promoting it. The meetings they hold and the hours they spend on them are wasted. Thirdly, the Ministerial activity taken out of the Ministry, to foundations and other such entities, to bring back the Ministry. Complete large-scale buy-in of drafts, analyses and legal advice. Lose all positions with the content of making up a job for yourself and others. Every official has the freedom to find the best solution and responsibility for helping a person. To exclude from the laws and regulations all the rules that are meant only to resolve a person's concerns, but to reject his or her application. It is clear that there is no need for a robot officer who, for example, receives expert papers from Mickey Mouse. Also, every law, regulation, administrative act and letter should be clear, short and in beautiful and good Estonian. Yeah, it's hard because you have to know what you're saying and take responsibility for it. All of this happens when ministers, chancellors, heads of institutions and all the taxpayers' money workers take it to heart every day. I'm afraid a new piece of central apparatus, or reformer, ruler or gauge, isn't helping here. You see, in a bad way, the bureaucrat is incredibly resourceful in securing his position. Finally, the one that has helped Estonia to become one of the most successful start-up groups. The basis for our success is a constitution suitable for a small country: parliamentary, resourceful and economical solutions, a strong balance mechanism that does not give anyone too much power. We have a simple human constitution, not the constitution of a lawyer, and this is one of the roots of the fascination with the amendment of the constitution, unfortunately. Here's a piece of history told me by state-law scientist Hent Kalmo, who is currently studying the activities of Ants Bible. If you read the protocols of the Constitutional Assembly and look at the documentary entitled Birth of the Constitution last year, you will probably find interesting thought in order to assess the reasoning that the Constitution must in any case be changed, how accurately, this will be revealed during the work. Hent Kalmo said that the Maaliit, together with Päts, remained in the minority of the Constituent Assembly and a constitution was adopted that he did not like and was not accepted by Päts, and in the 1920s Päts began to speak everywhere about the need to change the constitution and state form. In the mid - 1920's, Ants Piip gave a presentation that looked at the specific provisions of the Constitution and said that there were no legal obstacles to such governance. However, this position was ignored. Since it was repeated that there was a problem in the Constitution, the general belief that the country had to be reformed was soon deepened, even though there had been no substantive analysis to confirm that this change would make something better. In short, the lesson is that if it is constantly repeated that the country needs to be reformed, the diagnosis will soon be accepted (also unreasonably) and the focus will be on how to reform exactly. But the real reason was mostly the personal dissatisfaction of one (or some) politician with the constitution, which was not born by his fingertips. Good listeners! Since democracy's inherent weaknesses, indifference and modest statesmanship cannot be cured by the reformulation of the Constitution, I would suggest that the enthusiasm be limited. For example, changing the procedure for electing the President for mere entertainment purposes is not state-manly. If there is a need to change something in the Constitution, a careful change must be made, just as it has been done so far, in my opinion, mostly successfully. The referendum made it possible to join the European Union, the local council is elected for four years, the administration of national defence was placed on a suitable basis for NATO members, the protection of Estonian language is separate from the fundamental principles of Estonian culture, and young people aged 16 to 17 have been eligible for election in local elections. Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable decision-makers of our future! I would like to stress once again that the Estonian state is run by the Riigikogu, and I very much hope that it will remain that way. I know that the Riigikogu State Reform Problem Committee has done a very good and logical job, distinguished the important from the irrelevant, and listened carefully to all opinions and differences of opinion. I very much hope that the fruitage of this work, the target for smart restructuring, which really benefits a person, will soon become a guideline for the decision of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak from the most important speaker in the Republic of Estonia about the reorganisation of the state and administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U66	Thank you, Ülle Madise! Questions for the Chancellor of Justice. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! I had thought to ask the waitress in advance, but since the train is going fast, I'm going to ask you another question. Firstly, I would, of course, express my hope that this reform will work out and my joy at it, because the new version of the programme that the Centre Party is preparing also has an amazing lot in common with what is stated in the project we have heard about here. True, we still have the project, let's see what the party decides. They were talking about silo towers. Rather, I am interested in the little-spoken aspect. We're in Europe. Should we feel more European in the course of our state reform? Are there any overlaps with the nearest neighbouring countries and such silos? Do you think that the division of labour with them should be increased, or is there a risk that we might try to warm the world up and waste too much of our energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U68	Thank you! Most of all, I hope that the smartest heads in Estonia will do everything in their power to ensure that Estonia does as well as possible, and that they do not tend to make decisions for other countries. As far as the principality of the ministries is concerned, there are some medical measures here, some of which have been discussed in the political groups. For example, the same so-called zero-base budget may not be a bad idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U69	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U70	Thank you, Madam Chancellor. I very much liked the message by Rein Taagepera on campaigning and substitution activities and, unfortunately, on the subject of the word'state reform'. If we improve ourselves with mental and physical exercises and wash ourselves every day, we do not call it self-reform, but it is a normal process. But doesn't your great faith in the Riigikogu and democracy interfere a little with the knowledge that it is during the elections and, unfortunately, also with the support of the Riigikogu that the most inverse decisions and the greatest foolishness are made against this dreamful state reform? The least considered things will be decided by campaign procedure, for election. In my opinion, elections to the Riigikogu are always a nightmare, because there is no resources or rational justification for what is promised. As a great democrat, isn't there an internal contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U71	Thank you very much. I, too, liked Professor Taagepera's speech very much. As far as the quorum of the Riigikogu is concerned, yes, I believe that it will grow. It's supposed to grow. I very much hope that the Riigikogu will not surrender its power to the government, but rather take it back. I would also like the courts not to take the place of the Riigikogu in any form. In your opinion, it is possible to avoid making stupid decisions before the elections, which is what I was talking about here, perhaps, in a whine. In particular, in order to raise the bar of political culture, it is necessary for everyone together to put an end to the offer of stupidity. It is quite possible to propose rational and, in the future, really beneficial solutions within the framework of different world views.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U72	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! You can pick out very good ideas from any previous report. I cared about Teele Pehk's idea that maybe in 20 years we'll be building a citizen-centred country. You added that we could find this path ourselves, not running after others, and we could avoid any substitution activities in all this activity that came out of another previous report. Of course, such a simple state is very important in order to get closer to the citizen and to do so quickly, without hindrance. Here's my question. You have actually answered this question in different nuances, but maybe you're overreacting. How can we reach a country that is citizen-centred and is not overly bureaucratized? Why haven't we come to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U74	Thank you very much. We welcome the fact that even the movement of a clear message, which is very important to citizens, has been blown to the wind. There are many institutions that do not consider it necessary to impose any texts on a person from above in a language that cannot be understood by that person, and possibly by the writer himself, which have become much better in this matter. There's been an increase in statesmanship. Is there any way in which the campaign can promote statesmanship and citizen-centredness with the help of metrics or central whippers? I don't believe in it. I don't believe in it since kindergarten. But it's a matter of faith, and we're free to believe. In my opinion, the main recipe really is that anyone who gets paid by the state and is on taxpayer's bread asks every day whether he solved today or whether he only worked on it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U75	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Chancellor! I believe that I know the Constitution quite well, and I have also read very carefully all the proposals on state reform. I would argue that there is no need to amend the Constitution in order to make the necessary adjustments. The purpose of amending the Constitution is very often to redistribute power. I am not asking, therefore, whether there is a need for a redistribution of power in Estonia, but I am asking who would benefit from this redistribution of power. Are there some influential groups in Estonia that, in their opinion, do not have enough power and who think that they should gain power as a result of these constitutional changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U77	Thank you very much. The answer to that question interests me, too. Inevitably, when I look at the whole process and at the proposals, where the problem formulated and the solution proposed are not in any logical relationship, it surprises me. I hear the opinions that the economy would do better in Estonia, for example, if the state were to act in a word-breaking manner, that is to say, the principle of legal certainty is no longer needed. My knowledge and experience, which I have been collecting for over 20 years, are probably small in comparison to many others, but I still think that in Estonia and elsewhere, it is the opposite. Investment will still be made where it is clear that governance is stable, where there is legal certainty that the rules will not be changed halfway and you can make your economic plan by trusting in the rules that have been given to you. I think it's very important. I am also surprised by the argument that it is possible to increase the role of the Prime Minister and the Government and the role of the Riigikogu and the role of the Court. That's well over 100 percent. I believe that these proposals will probably still be working in state law, but if I may, I would still like to call for us to spend energy and time on solving the problems on which the future of Estonia and the well-being of the Estonian people depend.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U78	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U79	Thank you, Madam Chancellor. Many of the questions put to the rapporteurs by my colleagues were related to the Constitution. It seems to me that we have a pretty good state document called the Constitution. I want to think, and I am serious about the state reform now taking place. Compare time to one and a half years or a year ago: hard work has been done on administrative reform, losing counties, etc. There is a need to move forward, take it and do it, not to talk about the fact that we have not taken decisions to implement this state reform. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U80	Thank you very much. I don't think you're wrong. If there was time, I would repeat what Hent Kalmo told me about the enthusiasm for reform in the 1920s and the early 1930s.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U81	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I liked that in the final part of your presentation you outlined a series of solutions to what needs to be changed in public administration. Unfortunately, I am not quite sure that these solutions you have proposed will actually be implemented or even processed. Let me ask you this: what conclusions have been drawn from your observations on these issues? Has this cult of meters been pulled back now? Are there any indications that the activities transferred to the foundations will be returned to the ministries? Are there smarter solutions to the use of euro money? Will this area be cleaned up? Jne.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U83	Thank you very much. I think there are good developments, but I also think that far from what is needed. There are institutions to set an example. I hope my own office is one of them. I know that it is possible to focus on solving, to prohibit processing in the house, to shorten deadlines, to do at least as much and at least the same quality of work with the same or fewer people. There are many other such facilities. But I think the key to success depends, good members of the Riigikogu, on you, on your insistence on ministers and, of course, on ministers as leaders of your area of government. I very much hope that the very talented and sensible officials of the Ministry of Finance, too, will be able to review budgets without campaign, without foolishness, to put a stop to the princesses and to significantly limit the arms race. So I'm hoping it'll work out. In this plan, the pressure on businesses is also extremely welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U84	Thomas Paur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U85	Good manager! Honourable waitress Professor Ülle Madise! The amendment of the Constitution requires 67+ votes in the Riigikogu. Do you think that this might be an obstacle to the planned reform of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U86	Thank you very much. I hope that amendments to the Constitution that are not needed in the Estonian country, which have not been considered and which may give the opposite result to what is desired, will not be adopted precisely because they want good for their country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U87	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U88	Good manager! Good waitress! A lot could be asked, but I specifically ask: the occupation of how much the taxpayer pays and the responsibility there. Is it normal for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia to receive less from the taxpayer than the Director General of the Road Administration, the Director General of the Maritime Administration and the Director General of the Social Insurance Board, to name a few agencies? Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U89	Thank you for your question. This decision is, honourable Riigikogu, in your hands. And the fact that such a pay race has taken place is one of the poor aftereffects of the new public administration of its time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U90	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U91	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, first of all, for the simple and clear principles and positions that have been put forward. My question, however, is that a major reform, which, at first glance, deals with how money can be saved, can often lead to savings in money being not a bad goal of itself, so that, for those for whom these reforms are being carried out, the availability of the service becomes more bureaucratic and, in fact, the progress achieved is less. What's your position? In your statements, you also highlighted the issue of EU money and subsidies. Preparing for this money to end or decrease is at very different levels in different ministries and there is little fear of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U92	Thank you very much. If euro money is applied for and used in a reasonable way, it will be extremely useful, such as renovation of nursing homes and schools, water systems and sanitation, the necessary roads in the place needed, etc. It's all very good. My criticisms concerned those places where a project or a huge nation has been transferred to a foundation to make projects in order to take advantage of this money. The search for errors in the Constitution is exactly the same project for the purpose of using euro money. For this reason, the country has also given hundreds of thousands more each year. Similarly, a number of fairly difficult-structured problem committees, groups and entities have been made, all in order to take advantage of euro money under the sign of smart governance. That's the paradox. It must have led to the most foolish decisions in all this 25 years. I think that this amount is not very high compared to the rest of the euro, but unfortunately still significant. So, first of all, this money must be used wisely. Secondly, this remark is absolutely correct. I thank you very much for those words and for that attitude. In my opinion, all reforms and expenditures should be based on the fact that it would be good for people to live in Estonia and, secondly, on the fact that prosperity would continue to grow here. We have to rely on a person and create a living environment that wants to be here, that they want to come here, and that's where they want to come up with the best country in the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U93	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your presentation and your answer to questions. The time to ask the questions that were foreseen under our agreement has come to an end. I also thank all the other waitresses who showed us today! We are moving again to the negotiations under our own agreement. Tanel Talve, Chairman of the Committee on Issues in the Development of State Reform, will be given the floor first. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable guests! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start by thanking you. First of all, thank you to the previous speakers and not only for the speeches made today, you have all made a substantial contribution to the work of our special committee, which is intended to formulate a draft Parliament decision on the fundamentals of state reform. A number of other people have contributed: entrepreneurs, scientists, civil society leaders, politicians, international experts. We have also gathered recommendations from a number of organisations and received input from the Commission, from the development plans of village societies to the electoral programmes of political parties. Thanks to this long-term, intensive and broad-based work of many people, the draft decision on the fundamentals of state reform is now being finalised in the Riigikogu, which must lay down the basic principles on which the reforms should be based. We will try to formulate more concretely the important principles of our governance, which are not explicitly found in other laws, development plans and documents, and which could keep us in the right direction. Some keywords: human-centredness, reduction of administrative burden, effective state, adaptable state organisation. Of these points, I believe that one of the most important points in the draft of the fundamentals of state reform and good administration is the same human-centredness. This draft reads as follows: "The attention and resources will be focused primarily on providing services to people and solving problems in their lives. Any new change or additional action, and also during that period, shall be guided by the necessity and benefits of the change or action, both for individuals and for society as a whole. " We have also come to the conclusion that the fundamental principles of the Constitution should not be changed. In reforming the country, we must continue to rely on parliamentary democracy, the rule of law, separation of powers and balance. Our draft decision sets out the most important principles that will not demolish the Estonian state, but will help to make it even better. For a change, the legislator does not tell people what they have to do and how to behave, what is forbidden and what is promised, but says how we have to act when we lead the state and manage it ourselves here in the Riigikogu, and how the whole public sector must behave. It is clear that society expects us, the representatives of the people, to formulate the basic principles of good governance, on which the executive power can already build concrete action plans and strategies. It is also clear that this would be a big compromise in the Riigikogu, a broad-based agreement that hopefully will continue to apply regardless of the government coalition in power. Once again, I stress that the Riigikogu can provide basic principles, a more precise action plan and solutions will remain the responsibility of the executive power. However, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss even more actively our own role and development, i.e. Parliament. The Riigikogu itself must also keep up with the times. Our Committee on Trouble has raised the issue in its sittings and in its reflections. Feedback from the political groups of the Riigikogu also greatly thanks to all the political groups who have responded to the Commission's letters just showing that the need to increase the capacity and expertise of the Riigikogu is known to ensure high quality parliamentary supervision and the quality of the legal space, as well as to be a high level partner in dialogue with executive power. Good friends! Many organisations, communities, experts, as well as many government institutions and international organisations have worked very hard on new governance models, state reform, state innovation and other issues, so that our country's government is ultimately effective and feasible, that our beloved Estonia is still sustainable and successful and that happy people live here. I also call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to show state-manship and to make a substantive contribution to the formulation of the fundamentals of state reform here in the Riigikogu and in the adoption of the decision. I now have here that I thank you for your attention, but since I have a few more seconds, I will take this opportunity to express my personal opinion on what I think we could all perhaps pay more attention to together in this country. I think we should pay more attention to productivity growth, which is due to technological progress, increased education and innovation, and which would allow fewer people to produce more added value. A more concrete proposal could be a social agreement that we will bring public R &amp; D investment in Estonia to 1% of GDP and keep them at this level, just as we have done with defence spending. Now, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U95	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Külliiki Kübarsepp, please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U96	Happy brave ambassadors left in the hall! I applaud all four waitresses! It was, I think, one of the most successful debates we have heard here. Thank you. [[He's giving it up.]] The concept of state reform has been deformed during this period, at least in the last ten years, when we have used it intensively. That's why I sense that we're all talking about this in a different way and how different it is. We have also held a broader round table, visited Finland, and watched Parliament work there, in addition to its own debates with ambassadors, in the Committee on State Reform. One big conclusion I would like to make is that we do not have the ability to set targets. We are saying that we need some kind of reform, but we do not know what for. Yes, the Chancellor of Justice expressed the aims set out in the Constitution, in our great vision: the survival of the people in a linguistic, cultural way, etc. But it's become a word, we don't hold it in our heart and soul. Today, on the basis of a number of reports, I can say that the sub-objective of how this great constitutional objective can be achieved is a change in values and attitudes. Yes, this cannot be done traditionally, through draft laws, but we can express a change in our attitudes, even through the procedure of law. For example, if we want to bring about one change, can we erase at least two, three or four stupidities with one change? Or if we see a problem, do we even have to start by changing the drafts? Can we bring about a change by changing our attitude, by looking for our own solutions? Or, if we really find that there is a need to change the law, can we offer alternatives or do we have only one programmed solution that has been put out of great confusion in the election programme, and we do not see the opportunities available in society? I'm saying that the result is that we live in the present, but we don't live in the future. This is one of the great disadvantages of our reform that we cannot see the future. I think that is also why we cannot talk today about social changes in value; we cannot talk about motivated citizens. I think a motivated citizen could be one of our goals. If a person knows that the business environment is such that it favors the realization of his plans, then he also thinks about the family, future and future generations that are problem number one in our society. By 2,100, our population has decreased by half a million. That is why we need to be aware today of one of the sub-problems: we cannot support this country. Here is one solution, which the rapporteurs have also pointed out: the central government of the motivated citizen. I think it'll help solve some of our problems. We do not need to regulate everything from the central level. People are capable of changing everything themselves, but it requires trust, flexibility and opportunities on our part. Today we are afraid because we are stuck in the thinking of the previous regime. We need to regulate, regulate, regulate, because our trust is being abused anyway. Regardless of the environment, there are abuses, we must admit that. But it's definitely not dominant. There is another concern in our society, which I have also observed by participating in smaller organisations: everything that is allowed is also wanted to be recorded. I don't think you have to do that. You don't have to write down what is good governance or good procedure or how to solve one thing or another. I don't think you have to write all these things down. A little of what is worrying about the work of our Committee on Trouble. We have six political parties, or all political groups, represented there. We have worked on two solutions. The first solution package is one that will leave us constantly in the form of reform, reform and reform, because it provided for us to spend, spend and spend money on the next steps to reform, reform and reform. Secondly, there is a solution that you have also studied and which discusses our general principles, or changes in our values. But last night at the meeting, I felt like we weren't getting anywhere with that paper. Why? I sense the uncertainty of coalition partners because maybe they have to change their mind. By the way, it is easier to have power when there are very clear rules that can be pursued using a letter. But that is not what would lead us to change values that would create a motivated citizen, because the citizen sees that they are still trying to put a bag on him. My appeal is this: please let us put an end to these political games and take a step forward. Let us admit: we are also rubber stamps in terms of state reform, because we do not even have the information that is actually being done in ministries. On the round tables, I've met representatives of several ministries. It has become apparent that the process and attitude are already being changed in the context of the reform of the state, looking for austerity points. There are examples, but we haven't gotten that information, we're like runners, runners. Please, let's not blow this opportunity off! We're putting ourselves on the block again! The Free Party has provided the Riigikogu with small details of the state reform, which either have not yet come into the proceedings of committees or the large hall, or their first reading has been completed and they have remained in the drawer. The first was that the state budget of the political parties must be halved. The aim is precisely that we do not become comfortable or communicate with our constituents because of the resources we receive from the state. This is an important place for reform, which also has a gauge. The second thing we have presented freshly: we will start by reducing the expenses of members of the Riigikogu. The third thing I point out: to stop holding duplicate ministerial positions in one ministry, because the power struggle there, which is the Deputy Minister in that ministry and which is the Prime Minister, will not take us forward. We hope that we will make a step forward in this difficult world of reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U97	Arto Aas on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U98	Honourable guests! Good fellows! I want to start with a little backwards. The topic and concept of state reform appeared in the wider public about four years ago when Jüri Raidla and others began to talk about the need for reform. At the time, one of the main issues was the administrative reform that had not been completed for nearly 15 years. One of the priorities of the government that took office in 2015 was administrative reform and other innovations. It is a pleasure to note that in 2016 the same Riigikogu was indeed adopted by the same Riigikogu. Looking at what other activities are in the government's agenda or what we have planned in the committees, it seems to me that I can already congratulate this Riigikogu, the XIII Riigikogu, that this most important decision has already been adopted in June 2016 for the reform of the state and that it has been implemented by two formations of governments. For those who have not followed the administrative reform closely, I can assure you that funding issues and functions were actually discussed and changed within the framework of this reform. It is true that these changes were not as revolutionary as the accession process. But actually, in 2016, an analysis of the country's tasks was also completed. This did not receive much attention at the time, but it has to be acknowledged that it was quite a good document, at least in a dozen areas there were concrete proposals that should be made. This document is a quality label in this sense that the new government, led by the Centre Party, has also taken over its reforms or initiatives since the reform of rural governments. True, so many of these activities have been blocked, and that is the saddest. As a follow-up to the process of state reform, I can say that, in my opinion, the main problem is that there is no focus, there is no clear objective. For up to one and a half years, there has been a slowing down of processes, there has been no new wave. These problems are also reflected in this Committee on State Reform, but perhaps in a few words at the end of the speech. So, in fact, much has already been done during this membership. My wish for further discussion is for us to give up excessive slogans and paatoos precisely those thoughts that have gone through the speeches of almost all speakers today, to avoid substitution activities and to deal with unrealistic, undivided, even unsubstantiated proposals. In our Reform Party, too, we think that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia is an excellent document, it has served us very well so far and continues to serve us. Any change must be very, very well-considered, well-designed and with a broad consensus. If we want rapid changes, we shouldn't wait behind the constitution anyway. The amendments to the Constitution should be approved in two Riigikogu memberships and should later be incorporated into specific laws, which would mean that until 2023 or 2024 we will do nothing. Do we really have a reason to wait five or six years to change the constitution of some of the shearers? I think we have a lot of tangible real activities that don't have to wait behind the constitution. So we expect this process by talking about reform of state governance, more concreteness at both Commission and government level, real action, less foam, concrete responsibility, timetable, budget and indeed measurable results. Anyone who has come into contact with management or major processes knows that if there are no measurable results or specific objectives, they will never arrive. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U99	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U100	I do not want this debate and nature of state reform to become such an infinite, stretchy, wide, large cloud or mass or stream with no end or edge. In that case, all thought and logic will disappear from this process. We could return to the same old analyses, old proposals, or look at what the government's state reform plans include. To start with, simple things: fewer state-paid, fewer structural units, agencies, agencies, less regulation, administrative burden, very ambitious introduction of new technologies. These are the places where tangible results can be achieved quite quickly. Let us look at the example of the Tax and Customs Board: the service has improved and it is provided with half the smaller size. Let's think about what we've done. For example, how many facilities are there that deal with transport? In Estonia, five or seven institutions may be involved in public transport. Why are there so many of them? We are completely stuck with the reform of the euro money institutions, those which share euro money are at least nine. Most of them, the names of which are not even known in this Chamber, are bigger than the ministries, there are hundreds of people working there, there are thousands of them. So these are the real steps that I think could be taken to ensure that state reform also has some practical tangible value and content, so that we understand what we are talking about, that the focus gets sharper or at least goes somewhere. Finally, I come back to the Committee on State Reform and to the document that is currently being prepared. This process has not been harmful in itself, but if you look at how far it has been in a year and a half, you can see that the result is not significant or significant. Indeed, one document, one draft is ready. Unfortunately, he's not coming, but I think there's a very big question mark as to whether he's affecting reality. We are talking with very nice words of human-centredness, good lawmaking and smaller regulations, but when we look at what is actually happening at the level of the government and the Riigikogu, we see that these principles are not respected. I'm not so naive as to believe that this change would come overnight. So this debate today was a very interesting and useful one, certainly thanks to all the performers! However, the question remains whether all of this made the picture clearer and the focus settled. So the green light came from us for reforms of government, but more concrete would certainly help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U101	Speaks on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Helmut Hallemaa. Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U102	Honourable waitresses! Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, thank you very much to all the waitresses! This is a very important input to and added to the discussions on state reform and good administration. We see that state reform and good administration are a broad area, a whole area concerning the people and the country, a topic and a thing, and that is certainly the way to deal with it. In our opinion, the improvement of the administration at national level, certainly also the improvement of the administration at local and local level, the administrative reform, but even more importantly, the provision of all public services at the best possible level and the provision of better access to them, certainly also the improvement of our own, or Riigikogu, work. A balanced relationship between the state and the public sector as a whole and between the citizens of the country, all residents and civil society organisations, together acting in the direct and substantive sense of the word, is the basis and prerequisite of good administration. We believe that the reform of the state must be and is a matter for all of us. That is why this debate is only welcome, and we thank everyone for contributing and providing input. We are very pleased and welcome and welcome the initiatives based on the free will of think tanks, cooperation bodies, foundations and civil society organisations, including the last-emerging State Reform Foundation. Whether the state reform is complete, done, has been asked here today. Is this part of the administrative reform done? And when and will they even be ready? In my opinion, it is possible to answer as Tallinn goalkeeper Ülemiste's old man replied: they are not ready and they will never be finished. It is a continuous process, a process of improvement, improvement and improvement. And in years' time, we will see that we have to do more and more important things. We need smart reform, smart state reform. In my opinion, all the rapporteurs today had very important ideas and input to add to it. I would first like to stress the point made by Professor Emeritus Rein Taagepera on the prevention of so-called replacement activities. I'm sure it's important. Such reform must rule out a single table. Let us give an example here, even a few years ago, of trying to reduce the number of posts in the country. Then it happened that the Tartu University Hospital reduced the provision of an important support service and started to buy it more expensively. Or this big discussion, which was about the beginning of the so-called wrong direction in the counties regarding the registration centres. The reform of the state must certainly be a rich reform. We have to take into account differences, diversity. Despite its small size, Estonia is very different in all its dimensions. I think that there are many more differences here, and the state reform must also take into account more differences than the difference between Tallinn and Harjumaa and the rest of Estonia, which was last highlighted in the context of the discussions on the distribution of euro money. Certainly, the reform of the state must be effective, not so effective, i.e. a cent-based reading of the steps to be taken. It must be flexible, we cannot and must not have dogmas, and, if necessary, it must react very quickly, very quickly to reconsider. Of course, the key word for state reform must be zero bureaucracy. I think the idea of Jaak Aaviksoo emptying the drawer is a very good metaphor here. And we must certainly amplify our advantages, as Professor Ülle Madise pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice. In fact, it is surprising that there was no mention of e-state here. I think it is quite right what has recently been pointed out that e-state, e-tiger or digital tiger, we have fallen asleep, we need to wake it up, we need to revive it. It's important. This is very important in excluding confirmatory applications and reports, certainly in excluding them and not in reducing their number. In the context of Estonia's state reform, the development of Estonia as a whole is very important, which in the draft document of the Riigikogu has been formulated as an adaptable Estonia. Both the development of the state and the positive results of the state reform must take part in all the regions of Estonia, all the counties of Estonia, all the municipalities, all the people of Estonia, regardless of where they live. In my opinion, in the context of this reform, it is quite important, or most important, to provide basic services that are essential to all people in their place of residence throughout Estonia. These basic services are constitutional services: protection of life and health, education, as well as social state guarantees. The development of the business environment throughout Estonia is certainly a priority. I am pleased that, as one of the research directions for next year, the Riigikogu Development Monitoring Centre has taken into consideration the development opportunities of the regional economy throughout Estonia, i.e. the big-Tallinn economy versus the rest of the Estonian economy. Certainly, as a result of the reform of the state, the country must not be reduced in substance on the ground. We've gotten the country pretty thin, and I don't think there's any more room for comfort. It's just that today's rescue officers are out in front of this house. Their demands can only be supported. The same applies to police and many other security authorities. When it comes to one part of the reform of the state, the reform of local governments, I think we have only made the first part of this and started the first substantive steps of the administrative reform, including the restoration of the revenue base. The volume of municipal budgets in the total state budget volume is 24 to 25%. If all these agreed or agreed things are now realised in education and also in the social field, this percentage will be 28 to 29. But in the Nordic countries, which we are striving for, the total volume of municipal budgets is considerably higher and the decision-making power is also greater: in Finland, 42%, Sweden 54% and Denmark 62%. So our way out is still pretty long. However, I agree with the previous speaker, and I also say that we obviously need certain metrics in the reform of the state, whether or not because we are talking about different figures, whether to reduce half, a third or whatever, but because we have certain directions agreed with all the key players. The Government of the Republic has a state reform agenda aimed at a balanced, efficient and open state with four relatively simple and observable metrics. I think it's pretty important. I will conclude with the issue of the need to improve our own work. I think we need to change the strategic thinking of this hall and the whole house. We should become more of a strategic thinker than ever. I like it very much, and I think that the emphasis and comparison of the emphasis of Teele Pehk and the discussion democracy of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly can be placed here in the overall sense of equality. This is part of a debating democracy. It would certainly be worth taking the experience of Finland as an example. For 20 years, Finland's Prosecution Centre has been working as a permanent committee for Parliament's future committee on strategic and far-reaching development planning. I think it's a good experience. Finally, the good, efficient and beloved Estonian state continues to be ours! State reform and good administration are and can only be the common interest and care of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U103	Eiki Nestor on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guests! Colleagues! I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U105	Eight minutes in total. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U106	I welcome this debate not only because there were four very good waitresses here. Every time someone comes from outside this hall, it's a little bit more varied or something. This is also positive, on the other hand, because everyone who has made a policy as a professional knows that all political parties are investigating what the most important problems of people are so that they can better set up their messages. If you start from up there, you'll get a word like 'democracy' somewhere in the lower three ghosts. This is in itself a very sad picture for the simple reason that, as long as we have this democracy as it is, everything will be fine, but when we do not pay attention to it, it tends to disappear. Of course, we need to move the country forward, whether it is reform, innovation or whatever. The reason is above all that the world around us is changing. In my view, the two key words of this whole state reform are as follows. First of all, openness, because today's world is open and people are more informed, which means that the country must be open in the same way, it must not be a fist and a force. The second principle is also simple. So, what country is this? It's not a state of politicians, it's not a state of lawyers, it's not a state of professors, even if they're professors of law, it's not a state of men who have 10000 euros of foundation put into a state of people. This is the second part of this state reform, like the substantive side, that we are doing it for. I take on the beautiful word that Professor Taagepera said: 'People's reform'. I have to say that I think we are starting to overcome one thing, one misunderstanding in the process of popular reform quite well. These misconceptions are really bothering me. One of them is that you see, when the Riigikogu was elected in 2015, you came into this house, the door was locked from the outside, and you have not been able to get out of here in the meantime. This is the notion that these 101 members of the Riigikogu do not know what is going on in life at all. It is forgotten that you have husbands, children, parents, friends, co-workers, workmates, partners in non-profit organizations and whatever, and you live the same life as others. But such a delusion has been tried to spread. In particular, it is a fool when a member of the Riigikogu who has been in this Riigikogu for years writes an inflammatory article about state reform, and one of his thoughts is that the Riigikogu could be changed so that one third would be working here all the time and the rest would go to the button every four weeks so that it would somehow insanely improve the situation. In fact, on the contrary, it would increase the power of executive power. I have another proposal for you in the process of nation reform. We could get a better understanding of another strange concept. The President of the Riigikogu must also say unpopular sentences. The most unpopular sentence I always have to say when I meet people is that I have not recruited you, members of the Riigikogu, you have been elected here by voters. If this knowledge exists six months after the elections, then the closer the next elections will come, the more surely it will somehow be forgotten. If it were part of the reform of the people so that people would know that once they chose, but they feel they were wrong, then they could choose someone else next time, then it would be something that this country will stand on. The Riigikogu itself. Apart from everything else, apart from the cube root and everything else, I think it's important that we have a proportionate electoral system that provides an opportunity for the representatives of every worldview who has five percent support on the election day to get into this hall. It's important, it's fundamental. They don't have to be on the field. If the Riigikogu is smaller, the smallest group is smaller. Right now it's theoretically five people, then it's four and then three. All right, let's cut the number of Riigikogu committees, you can do that, but the three of us still do nothing. In other words, this way, I think, is somehow the minimum number that you could expect to be able to do. As far as the Riigikogu is concerned, it is more important that we increase the part that we should have than talk about parliamentary democracy. In other words, as far as experts are concerned, I believe that the highest official of the Riigikogu committees must be equal to the Chancellor of the Ministry, at least the Chancellor of the Ministry, on his level, salary, skills and knowledge. That's where we should go. Such a shame that we are being made aware that there is something unconstitutional in the law, and the Riigikogu decides that this is the case, but then we will not be able to draft a bill, is not suitable for anywhere. You can't do that! So the work of the Riigikogu itself should definitely be accompanied by the principles of reform, which include openness first. And I'll tell these foundation guys in full public and frankly. One idea you have there is, I think, particularly foolish. That's the increase in the Prime Minister's power to get another shell! put on the table and decide. This is extremely dangerous to democracy. For this simple reason, if we now have a prime minister who makes agreements and we have had to get along in the middle of a four-year period with two coalitions, then the prime minister who starts punching will immediately bring about a new coalition. Then we won't get along with the two coalitions, and then what happened in the thirties, when people got tired of going to the elections every year, because any collapse of the coalition meant new elections. Then everybody's gonna want a hard-on. There's no need to create a situation like this. We wish the Trouble Committee success and we fully support the adoption of the draft decision during the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U107	Mart Nutt, on behalf of the IRL Group, today. I say this not because Mart Nutt would change, but because the name of the group will change next week. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable participants in the debate, speakers! I share the view expressed by previous speakers that all the presentations were very strong. I dare say that today's debate has perhaps been one of the most constructive discussions on important matters of state life. So this is certainly an extremely important debate. I do not think that the questions about the country's own work and the future should be a regular debate, at all, must not be so that we turn to this issue no more than once during our membership and perhaps even during each of our memberships. However, what do I want to say about this framework for state reform? First of all, society is in constant development and therefore there is a need to change the organisation of society constantly. It is a question of what it means to change the organisation of society. Are we looking at this as a continuous process, or are we looking at it as some kind of revolution, just like in 1933? It was then found that parliamentary democracy was no longer appropriate, as it had become a trade for cow of parties, that we would introduce some kind of very heavily centralised power, and then happiness would come to our yard. Well, what happiness was, we know that. I think that such things should make us cautious in the future. I recall that there was a very long debate in Finland in the early 1980s, which focused on the structural change in the Estonian language of Rakennemuuto. It was a campaign. It was a campaign everyone was talking about, but at one beautiful moment, when a journalist asked during the debate to tell me what this thing was about the Rakennemuuto, no one could answer. That was the campaign. The worst that can happen is when this state reform turns into a campaign. As I said, I have taken a pretty thorough look at the proposals that have been made in the context of this state reform. I'll be honest with you, there's a lot of good stuff among them. I think we can find a consensus to carry them out. But there are also suggestions that, I think, are not very well thought out. So I wouldn't dare take the whole whole thing as pure gold. I think that there are issues that we need to deal with all the time, but that we are taking some sort of big package, going to a referendum and creating a different country like this, I do not really believe. I don't think that's actually very conceivable. Democracy has its differences of opinion. Assuming we find a very broad consensus on all these issues is, in my opinion, relatively naive. We certainly will not find it, but I think we will find sufficient consensus on important issues, what needs to be done in the country. Now the subject of the amendment of the Constitution and the Constitution. We know how difficult it is to change the constitution, because there is a need for a very strong consensus to do so. And thank God! I think we have escaped a lot of trouble in Estonia because it is very difficult for us to change the Constitution. On this issue, I think, it is, too. I have not discussed with all my colleagues how much there is a willingness and a desire to change the constitution. I do not have that desire or willingness, and I feel that a large part of my colleagues think the same way. What conclusion do I draw from this? I conclude that if we now focus on changing the constitution in this state reform, the steam will go to the wrong place and the things that are needed and possible to change, we may not be able to change. So it is my call to address real, substantive issues, based on what needs to be done specifically, and not to focus on issues that do not really need to be changed and which distract us from what needs to be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U109	Dear Riigikogu, I recall the beginning of today's sitting. The Committee on Problems proposed that, if necessary, the current sitting be extended until the agenda item is exhausted, at least in today's space, but no longer than two o'clock. That means we have to vote on it. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Problems to extend the session today, but no longer than two o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There were 25 delegates in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions. This is an overwhelming majority of more than two thirds of those present. We will continue today's sitting, but we will definitely close at 2:00. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U110	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have to admit that I feel like a person split in a certain way today, almost schizophrenic, because part of my time and listening to a few speeches, it seemed to me that I was where I should be nominally, namely in an independent Estonian country in the 21st century, but some of the time I felt that we were still in the Soviet Union, the Soviet Union had not broken down, and all the things that were then would live on. I'm trying to move on with a few shapes. When I was young, I too happened to read the books of American science fiction writer Ray Bradbury, which are very much to learn about. One series of his stories was where the protagonist was a creature from Mars who had such a quality that everyone who spoke to him saw something different in him, namely what he wanted to see himself. It's a pretty good shape for the term state reform. We have a lot of people talking about it, and by that everyone means it. Even Jüri Raidla, who introduced this word, makes constant statements that he is unhappy that no one understands what is meant when it is said 'State reform'. I'm trying to avoid that word, because if we don't agree on what it is, it's like there was a Russian fairy tale that I read when I was a kid, where the main character was given an impossible task that was formulated so that you go there, you don't know where, and you bring it, you don't know what. On the other hand, I also do not like what is happening around the word'state reform'. During the Soviet era, a strange word called 'comjay' emerged into Estonian. It came from a song often sung by Soviet soldiers. The meaning of this word is 'nerious, twitching, aimless, noisy, not much to anyone'. Such a comb is currently going around this reform of the state. When I think about the substance of this matter, I do not know what will happen in the end, but it is already certain that the most successful ones in this line of action have also been the abusers of this option. They have been successful, and under the alias of the state reform, tens of millions of euros have probably been taken through the budget from the Estonian state and the people. Separate agencies have been set up to deal with'state reform' and almost all public authorities have been forced to produce all kinds of fantasies about how things could be different than they are now. And all the chancellors and ministers have realized that this is one of the few ways in which money can be raised in their area of government. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U111	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U112	Plans are being drawn up, which in my young generation, at least in Russia, where I studied for a while, was called michurinism. Such government plans can be identified by the fact that where there is a hill or a mountain, a valley should be dug and the valley should be filled and built in a hill instead. So this kind of thing. These were not random things at all, because the Soviet Union's internal struggle for power was through such plans. This was also the case in Estonia. Scientific bodies were invited to shape or reform the future, to draw up plans, and were used as a tool for power struggles. Estonia has reached quite the same position again in this sense. Perhaps the most important thing is that our people's confidence in the existence of our own country is being destroyed. One of the clear features of national quality is that, if it succeeds, the main elements of the regime will not be changed over several generations. It gives a completely different understanding to those nations that have such a state than to those whose country is very young or very scattered, like our country. During the end of the Soviet Union, we needed revolutionary restructuring here. At some point, a political agreement should have emerged in Estonia that they would be terminated and taken to a permanent state rather than to the continuation of a state that is constantly changing the regime. This did not happen, and the result is that the things that were needed in the 1990s continue now as meaningless cartoons and still under a beautiful sign. Now, let's talk about serious things. The serious thing is that important changes in our country are necessary mainly for two reasons. One is that we have had a population relocation: there are many people in Tallinn and Harjumaa, a large part of our countrymen are abroad, and many parts of Estonia are left quite empty. These things give cause for real change. I am not saying that they should bear the name of the reform. Another problem is that our lives have come online and it provides a variety of opportunities that were not imaginary in the past. For example, at a recent meeting of justice officials, I heard that the possibility of a trial was discussed so that three judges taking part in it were physically located in different parts of Estonia. These are also things that are necessary. I suggest you take care of these things. Others, especially as regards the ideas of amending the Constitution, I suggest not to be dealt with. In 1997, when the major revision of the Constitution was completed, 100 amendments were added from authors and experts. How many of these have been tried over the years? The answer is, of course, none. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U113	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U114	Good President and few colleagues. Good thing you don't have to limit yourself to five minutes right now, so I'm asking for more time in advance! We have set up two committees of concern here: the Committee on Population and State Reform. In fact, there would be a lot of talk for everyone, but the idea of the first Commission is that more children should be done, and in the second case, the idea of a mouth to be set up according to sex is to live up to its own abilities. There were a number of interesting presentations. For example, Chancellor Madise said that we run Estonia and what we do in this Chamber. But the other waitress, Rein Taagepera, said that we are rubber stamps and that we will become even more rubber stamps because the drafts come from the government and it is up to us to get approved. The professor didn't answer the question, if that's a good thing. Mr Taagepera said that when we are in the European Union, we have two options: whether the European Union is falling apart or becoming a federation and Estonia becomes a state like its beloved California. What's state competence? Partial autonomy and sharing of sovereignty with the federal government. The state has its own nationality and residents are also Federation citizens, so double at the same time. The state has its own constitution, and so does the state. And what would our jurisdiction be if we turned into a state? Order, education, health, transport, but not foreign policy and many other things. It is true that the European Union has its own flag, its own money and something else, its own constitution does not yet exist, but the direction is in any case that way. Presidents Meri and Ilves were a federal Faith just like the esteemed Professor Taagepera. President Rüütel has spoken and continues to speak about the association of nation states. It's much nicer for me. But in such circumstances, how can we ensure that the statement in the preamble to our constitution that Estonian culture and language will continue throughout the ages? How is California in the United States? Estonian is not the subject. I think the esteemed professor had an excellent presentation, but that comparison is not appropriate. Estonia does not need to become a state of any Federation. What Is Reality? The reality really is that Estonia is small, flexible and cute, it has been a great success, but it is actually very, very much to do. When I asked the esteemed Chancellor of Justice why the salary of the Prime Minister, the CEO of the state, is less than that of the Director General of the Road Administration and Maritime Administration, they deal with waterways and roads, not to mention, of course, the Governor of Eesti Pank and several other officials, he said it was up to us. It is up to us to make rubber stamps, and we rubber stamps accept it to this day, that the Prime Minister, the Chief Executive of the State, the President whose responsibility is immeasurable, is not reflected in any way in the salary number. They say officials are corrupt, and it's holding them back all of a sudden. Hey, come on! But if we're really rubber stamps, then that's it: we're gonna hit the approval, we're gonna bend over and we're gonna say yes. There's a lot to do. Today, people are waiting in Tartu and around it for what happens to the pulp mill. I'm not even gonna talk about Rail Baltic. The hope that it won't work out like this is gone, but a lot of people aren't. A small thing: the massacre of waterbirds, which was also picked up by many signatures, but we come out with a bill that day limits are not imposed, but we read ten points to Italian and other foreign hunters, they sign and launch guns. There's a lot of these things. We cannot put drafts to the referendum, because if they are rejected, we will have to resign, the rubber stamp assembly. Mr Adams said that you should not touch the Constitution. I think it's worth touching. For example, § 105 (4) of the Constitution could be removed from it, i.e. if the draft, which has been put to a referendum, is rejected, then we must disband. Come on, people must have a much bigger part, there is no need not to play and to say that you make suggestions, we make an ice platter and we quietly turn it back on again. So, in fact, the constitution should be touched, maybe not too much, but in some places. Lawmaking. Minister of Justice Reinsalu has also told us here that, on the one hand, we are defenceless in front of the avalanche of draft laws coming from Europe, but on the other, we are dealing with substitution activities here. In the case of the preparation of many regulations or regulations, analyses have not been carried out. Not only have our membership, which will be over next spring, most of the drafts been revised three times. It doesn't show the best quality. But we really don't have any responsibility. I'm afraid so. If a workman makes a crack, he'll be fired from his boss soon enough. If a person doesn't work, does a job, the same thing happens to him. That's not really gonna happen to us. But if we're rubber stamps and we're okay with it, we'll keep going! I don't agree with that. The Estonian state is very nice, sweet, successful, but there is very, very much to be done here. Whether this is a state reform, I do not like this word, but there is a great deal to be done. In particular, children should be made and, above all, loved so that more women would be willing to have more children. But they don't agree. As I said here last time, they disagree because they don't feel that there's solid support next to them. It's mostly us men. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U115	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U116	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable speakers! I, too, thank you for this debate on state innovation. Indeed, the Estonian state needs it. But let me start my thought by saying one thing. I apologise to all the teachers when they are in this Chamber or listening to the hearing, because it is certainly not meant to be picky, but it still says quite a lot about reform. It sounds like, "Education renewal is like moving to a cemetery, people inside aren't helping much. ' We have problems in several areas in the country and these problems do not disappear with time; they simply change in certain situations. But it seems to me that in Estonia we have managed to do one very important thing, and that is precisely the education reform. Mr Jaak Aaviksoo has left the hall, but he played a very important role in it as a driver, as a carrier, as a minister. A country that can reform the most conservative area of education can do much more. But in my thinking, I see three important notches in the context of Estonia's state reform, state renewal. One is Europe, the other is the local authority and its role, and the third is, in fact, the abuse of different pieces of legislation within the country. In the European context, we need to look at directives. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I can say very clearly that one of Estonia's major problems is the transposition of European Union directives. We are doing this in my opinion in a gruesome way, we have not developed a clear view of what we want. It should be clear already when we go to the table to negotiate, later on, it may be extremely difficult to adapt the directives. This actually creates bureaucracy, including discouragement of people, businesses, because it entails costs and creates quite a lot of confusion. The second issue, which has also been mentioned here today, is very clearly affecting the local government and its nature. Yes, indeed, we have made administrative reform, but we have not really talked about this content so far. And it's very sad. Having been the head of self-government and still in the role of Chairman of the City Council of Pärnu, I can see over and over again how the central government and local authorities do not grow together but still leave. This is a major problem in the Estonian state in the sense that we are moving away from the citizen and becoming less understandable to the citizen. We can talk about services and everything else, but perhaps the best or, to put it plainly, the worst example that I think is currently in work, concerns the transport sector where the state has brought public transport centres into practice by law at the highest level, but we are taking away the freedom of choice at ministerial level. Maybe we'll play the show. There's no way to tolerate this kind of activity. The issue is whether, indeed, in order to organise this area better, more reliablely and using the principle of subsidiarity, we must, here in this Chamber, initiate a draft law to give the right of self-decision to the level of local government, to the joint institution created by them. These are the problems of real life. All other great ideas can be implemented until the Constitution is amended, but I believe that in life it is actually the case that the owners understand that it is still possible to lead this country with well-elected leaders who know what they are doing and who they work for every day. So I believe that in this Chamber we are talking about state reform and state renewal over and over again, but let us first do everything we need to do, so there is less talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U117	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U118	Mr President, guests and colleagues. The reason I came here is this. I am simply going to contribute to this debate because it would be awfully embarrassing if this thing were to end in ten minutes, because then we would realise that this is not important, it is not important or it is a question. State reform. The thing is, we're confusing two things. We do not notice whether we are writing these words'state' and'reform' together or leaving. These are absolutely two things that do not come into direct contact with each other. Let's start with the reform of the country, split up. This means whether we want to reform the Estonian state. Then it is necessary to ask whether the country in its current form meets our wishes and needs. In my opinion, this is not automatically clear. The first move is extremely simple: the immediate liquidation of the President's institution. I am also very grateful to the current President, who, next to the day, proves not only the unnecessaryness of this institution but also, at times, the harmfulness of the institution, making suspicious statements from the point of view of the Estonian state, as recently in the direction of Moscow, taking financial responsibilities for Estonia, etc., so that I really would like to scream if there can be no more silence. So let's start with the liquidation of the president's institution. Now forward, the number of members of the Riigikogu. The number may indeed be smaller, but this number should then be balanced by dividing the Riigikogu into two chambers, such as 80:40. 80 members would belong to a professional sub-house and 40 would belong to an occasional headquarters with all the functions arising from it. If there were an act of activity in the House of Commons, the House of Lords would be a conservative and holding back force, just as it is in Poland, the United States and other two-chamber states and, by the way, in France, where the number of chambers is equal. Next, changing the state should create such a situation that there is no state institution that even theoretically no one controls, as is currently the Estonian Public Prosecutor's Office. Nobody supervises the prosecutor's office. Formally, disciplinary supervision is the task of the Minister of Justice, who here has on two occasions publicly declared that he does not dare to exercise this responsibility. That is exactly what Rein Lang said as Minister of Justice, saying that the disciplinary liability of the prosecutor is the suicide of the Minister of Justice in the eyes of the Estonian Express. Now, let's go, intercourse with Brussels. Again, it is not clear because the safeguard clause has not worked. Estonia went smoothly from EFSF to ESM, with the ESM as an institution clearly conflicting with the conditions under which we went to Brussels. In other words, we need to know that we ourselves have abandoned anti-Brussels protection. These are the topics when'state reform' is two words. If'state reform' is one word, then it is a reform within the country. The most important reform that seems to me... Can I ask for a little more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U119	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U120	State reform within the country means that we change our thinking. We're not talking about the population, the contingent, anything like that anymore, we're talking about people. One of the iron arguments that Elron, Eesti Energia and maternity homes bring is that there are not enough people to... This means that they think on the basis of statistics and contingent and do not understand that 10 births in Valga are more important than 10,000 births in Tallinn from a national point of view and that one birth in Valgas has to pay 10, 15 and 20 times more, and this is why one person needs to keep the maternity department open. This is the essence of the Estonian state. We often fail to stress that church tradition is also important. I would remind you that there are no people in the church, no population registers, but there is a letter of spirit, and people, especially the deceased, are affectionately described as'soul', but not as 'lost', who disappeared from Latvia while driving here for cremation. We are talking very much about GDP, which really does not matter at all. GDP is slightly larger or slightly smaller than the GDP of people who are unhappy. Finland is not a country of GDP, but a country of people and souls, including a country of church. The church helped Finland to become the most prosperous country in the world and to win the winter war. Secular Estonian government in 1939-1940. In 1984, I did not even think for a moment what it would be like to sacrifice ourselves. It didn't occur to Laidoner or Päts. A separate human right, a tech-terror. The e-state is not an instrument, but an e-state is an end in itself. The e-state is designed for IT people who, moreover, are not yet very competent, as we now see with regard to the use of the ID card and everything else. If we have to give digital signature right here, it's actually like two girls, these nice twins, have to come upstairs, help, and then they wonder who created this system. In the end, we're gonna get to the point where the only way to start the computer, reboot it right is to pull it out of the wall like a iron. The switch to digital television meant that the "Actual Camera" of analogue TV disappeared and that a slide show had appeared in its place, and it was flickering. In other words, there is absolutely no mechanism at national level to protect us from technical progress from terrorism. This means that all our IT solutions and e-solutions, etc., are poor. They're bad, they don't work because they only live by the mercy of the state. If there was a chance to give a normal signature instead of a digital signature, who would be the lunatic who would go out on that digital signature! Well, after you gave it away, you'd have to call on a regular wired phone to ask if you got there or didn't, because in three days it turns out you still have something undeclared. And last. We should actually do something about ourselves here, with the Riigikogu. I just remembered a couple or three such quick things. I have a suggestion. This is a third-level reform: the Riigikogu could work every day at 9 to 17, my suggestion would be that at 13 to 14 it is lunch, Saturday and Sunday are free and a member of the Riigikogu has the right to exercise his holiday peacefully. There is no revolution, and the Russians are not under the Sinimäed Hills. This hysterical folk front playing in the Riigikogu, where there is always an enemy somewhere and someone attacks the TV Tower, is simply comic from a distance. The other thing, we should become one who's seriously discussing things. Three hours have been allocated to discussing a crucial national issue, and we are wasting our time, as we all understand, because we do not take it ourselves today either how seriously or even if we take it, frankly, this too much talk has got boring and bored. At least now I've been betting so that we can say from now on that we've been discussing it for four hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U121	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U122	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good waitresses! Listening both to today's presentations and to all the emotional speeches, it became clear that under one word,'state reform', everything fits from wall to wall, from side to side. Everyone is talking about exactly what he thinks it is most important and where he thinks the shoe squeezes the most. I think that whatever we are talking about here, we should only think about one thing: that everything we do here should be done for the people of Estonia. Everything else around there is just for that. We often forget it. I remember the beginning of the century when the peasants had only one fear: that people would go to Tallinn. Those sitting here also thought that everyone would come to Tallinn. But we were all wrong. In fact, people didn't come to Tallinn, they drove on from here, first to the Nordic countries and beyond. There was this first question mark that I should have paid the most attention to. Our good people went somewhere else to work and pay taxes. At one point, we noticed that a pretty large group of good taxpayers had disappeared from our society. But did we notice it in this hall? I think, and I'm scared, and I'm numerically able to prove that I didn't actually notice. The state apparatus continued to grow. Now, if we look at how many taxpayers there are in our country, we will get 600,000 in response to 650000. If we look at how many taxpayers' money dependants we have, including us, this figure is already approaching one quarter of the taxpayers' number. We also discussed in the Committee on State Reform how widely and precisely the state reform should proceed and whether there should also be metrics. We got opinions from both sides, but there's gotta be a gauge somewhere. There is no way that the tax burden will rise to heaven and at one point they will look at whether we like it here or not, and they will go somewhere else, where, it seems, life is more beautiful and greener and brighter. Igor here offered to have two houses. I suggest everyone go to England, the company of our parliament was there. A week later, we came back and it turned out that we were much better than they were. If you go on vacation, it's good somewhere far away, but if you have to live there for a while, then it's clear that there's exactly the same kind of joy and understanding. They're talking about us as a rubber stamp. One could still take a clear view that bureaucracy needs to be reduced. First of all, we agree that the top line of the official body will be put in place somewhere and will not be overtaken, and we will not start reducing 'officials' in the way that was done two years ago when 3% was reduced. So who did we lay off? We laid off the kitchen staff of major hospitals, who were on the hospital list before, then we didn't have to pay VAT, we made private companies there, and food and everything came up with taxes. That's what we're just spending more money from the Health Insurance Fund. The service cannot be lost, only the price of the service changed. Instead, we would still look over the first five, six, or seven years of this century... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U123	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U124	...there could be very clear savings. We could start right here in the hall. If we think that there must be so much of us here, then perhaps there should be, but perhaps it should be different that there should be fewer members of the Riigikogu, but they would have helpers or advisers, or what someone would call them, that productivity would be something else and that the work would be done longer. We are trying to share all things, as they say, in the public sector, but we could still look very boldly towards businesses, communities and NGOs. A lot of things could give you a "down." They would do this work very well, often with much better quality and less money. We're supposed to lose a lot of fear. We're always talking about a balanced budget here and everything else, but when the kids graduate and buy a flat, they'll all take out a loan. Then this is all normal, but if the Estonian state wanted to borrow a loan to improve its infrastructure, it would seem taboo. Pärnu's man waits for the four-line road to reach Pärnu, I wait for the four-line road to reach Tartu, and Narva's man waits for the four-line road to reach Narva. And then maybe we're talking about some Rail Baltic we don't understand. We are offered to make a tunnel between Helsinki and Tallinn for 12 or 15 billion euros. Every economic person understands that if Finland had a level of economy four times higher than we do, then, because of the law on connected vessels, in the first five years, this ratio would be 1: 2, not 1: 4, and in ten years, the balance would be what we want. These are the places you need to think about more. There is no need to fear that we will clean up our infrastructure. If we could get from Tartu to Tallinn in 40 minutes and from here to Helsinki in 20 minutes, there would be no difference where to live and where to work. Not to mention that we have e-state, e-opportunities and teleworking opportunities in today's terms, app systems in tomorrow's terms, etc. It is certainly important for the state to review its expenditure on management and, on the other hand, to find ways to build faster connections. They would make our competitiveness much better and the future much brighter. I wish you all to think calmly and that all the proposals that were in this Chamber today will be discussed and will be back on this table at some point. The next time this debate is, as Igor said, it could be a little longer. There could be such a long time that there would no longer be two performers and some members of the Riigikogu, but this discussion would be heated, perhaps there could also be throwing tomatoes and rotten eggs in the hall, but the result would be that we would do something too, not that there would be laws coming again that made no sense. We could make the first agreement that every new law will repeal the two old laws. Then, I think we could have gotten a big result by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-05_U125	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I will also close the debate on this subject at least in today's sitting. I'll see you tomorrow at 1:00. Closure of the sitting at 1.30 p.m.
