ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-18_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the second working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. As usual, the first thing we can do is hand over drafts and inquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the seven members of the Free Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas on older people's employment. I will say right away that the main author of this inquiry is a good person, Aimar Altosaar, a member of the Free Party, who is also carrying one of the organisations called the Golden League, which has taken the heart of the Golden League, to promote the employment of older people and to reduce and oppose age discrimination. Evidently, this discrimination exists in Estonia at times. Now to the questions raised. If we are talking about the impertinent taxation of working pensioners, which will certainly bring about the motivation of working, and when the government talks about increasing the immigration quota, it seems to us that in an ageing society, when we are also talking about a flexible retirement age and its rise, the key is the employment of older people. It is important to talk about both those who are of retirement age and those who have reached retirement age. Measures must be taken to ensure that the employment of older people is better ensured in Estonia, that they are better motivated and that their work is better valued. Hence the questions to the Prime Minister in order to raise the issue at the highest possible level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-18_U3	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-18_U4	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of seven members of the Free Party, I have an inquiry to the Minister for Health and Labour, Mr Ossinovski. This relates to investments in health centres. For the last ten years, as we know, the emphasis has been on strengthening the primary level, the family medical system, and putting more emphasis on the family medical system from specialist medical care. Through the European Regional Fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs has financed the promotion of health centre infrastructure through an open call for proposals. Its purpose is to create health centres in centres of attraction. The first round was known to be over EUR 26 million and the second round of announcement. I would stress that this money is intended to promote the first level. At the beginning of this year, however, the Ministry of Social Affairs amended the regulation and introduced a new concept of 'terrestrial health centre'. This means that, in addition to the primary level, the family medical system, the funds will also be directed to the development plan for the hospital network to promote and strengthen hospitals. On 3 January, a press release was published that said that the money was 27 million, but 16 million of it had already been planned for Viljandi Hospital without a competition. That is why we are asking the Minister four questions, and we want to get them appropriate answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-18_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, The buzz was pretty big, I don't know if you heard what the question was. But I hope if anyone missed it in that big buzz, you can check with Monika Haukanõmme. But I'm still asking for your attention. Before we go to the processing of the items on the Riigikogu's agenda today, it is very important to give you a message. Formally, I say before I say that yes, two enquiries were accepted and the Riigikogu decides, of course, that they will be dealt with in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. But now: after today's session of the Riigikogu, there will be a meeting of the island bridge support group in this Chamber. The caller is Kalle Laanet. Anyone who feels passion for dealing with the islands' bridges, please meet in this Chamber at Kalle Laanet. In order to cool our emotions, we're now doing a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-18_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, the buzz is getting very big again, but I would point out that we need to discuss one item today. More specifically, the local government unit initiated by the Special Committee on State Budget Control... Hello! [[It's ringing the bell.]] I won't even hear myself talk soon. Second reading of draft Act 525 amending the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit initiated by the Special Committee on State Budget Control. The rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-18_U7	Mr President! The debate on the second reading of the draft law, which was just heard, took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 8 January. By this time no amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs specified the time for entry into force, we offer 1 January 2019. The reporting period will then logically start on 1 January 2018. A consensual decision was adopted to send the draft to second reading today, 18 January and the second to stop reading. There were no questions or discussions in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-18_U8	Good waitress, the members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. Now it's time for a negotiation. Every member of the Riigikogu at second reading is known to have the opportunity to say his or her opinion on the draft. Please! There are no requests, we can go to the amendments. As you have heard, the lead committee has made one proposal and it has been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 525. Second reading is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the points on today's agenda. Working week in this big hall is over. Have a nice day at the committees! I'll see you Monday. Closure of the sitting at 10.08 a.m.
