ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 3rd working week Thursday session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U2	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have a draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act on behalf of the Free Party Group. We all know that the entire Estonian public knows that this law, like the party law, needs to change a long time ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U3	Honourable good waitress, may I have your attention for a moment? The hall, the noise is very loud. Even I don't really hear what Mr. Adams is telling us. Quiet, please! Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U4	Thank you. The most fundamental problem with the current Riigikogu Election Act is that it has the right to passive election. This means that the circle of those entitled to submit candidates' lists is extremely limited. The political content and consequences of this restriction are such that it prevents the emergence of new competitors in the Riigikogu elections and makes it extremely difficult for them to attempt to submit their lists. We are of the opinion that such a restriction is, in fact, unconstitutional. The political content of the present draft is to restore the possibility of submitting candidates' lists to the electoral associations of political parties in the extent that it was in the composition of the VII and VIII Riigikogu during the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U5	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U6	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I have one draft to announce and one draft to submit. In fact, on 6 June, on behalf of the group, we initiated bill No 655 supplementing the Planning Act. Our starting point was that Artur Talvik is its waitress and defender in the Riigikogu Hall. We are in a relationship of trust with Artur Talvik and still in the understanding that he could be a waitress, but it has been made clear to us that once he has left our group, it is simply not possible. We will find a solution as soon as possible and re-submit a similar draft on behalf of the members of the Riigikogu, then everything will be possible as we have planned. Since there has been one error in the information system of the Riigikogu, probably in relation to one of our readmissions, I have the honour to announce that we are still in the process of processing the Act amending the Government Act. If this error cannot be called back from the system, we will re-submit this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U7	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 21 parliamentarians, I am pleased to hand over a draft concerning the amendment of the construction code. I must mention here that this has been helped to prepare the members of the broadband support group Erki Savisaar and Tanel Talve. In fact, both the Economic Affairs Committee in the Riigikogu and the Special Committee on State Budget Control have contributed, and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economic Affairs have been involved in drafting this draft. The draft will lead to a continuation of Parliament's package of legislative amendments already launched in this Chamber. We are creating an opportunity to bring a simplified cable, figuratively speaking, from the end of the mail, from the air or from the ground to the existing broadband infrastructure. It helps save money, resources, and accelerates the process. As you know, there is currently a 20-million-dollar call for broadband infrastructure. There are three bids. We hope that next year it will be possible to build this infrastructure. Our draft law should contribute, i.e. simplify the process. At the same time, in addition to cutting red tape, this draft will create a little more bureaucracy. The draft concerns, in particular, the construction of the border area, creates a prerequisite for this, and in future, the technical infrastructure will have to be coordinated within the border area of 50 metres with the Technical Surveillance Authority and also with the Ministry of the Interior. I would ask for this bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U9	Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Vocational Training Institution Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Education and Research Mailis Reps when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. The Government of the Republic will be represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste when this bill is being processed. And thirdly, the bill to amend the pharmaceutical law. Riigikogu represents Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, the Government of the Republic, when dealing with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U11	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present, 23 are missing. Let's go to the messages. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Next Monday, the final event of the European Parliament forum will take place here in the Chamber of Riigikogu sittings. In this context, I would like to ask you to bring important materials from your tables and drawers after the plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U12	We will go to the agenda for the Thursday sitting. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the members of the Board of the National Library of Estonia', submitted by the Committee on Culture. Waitress Heljo Pikhof, member of the Committee on Culture, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 17 September the Committee on Culture discussed the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the National Library of Estonia as the third item on the agenda. All members of the Committee on Culture, Mr Angelika Berg, Head of Advisor-Secretariat, Mr Urvo Klopets, and Mr Merje Noorlind, took part in the meeting. Next, the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Riigikogu's Board of Governors of the National Library of Estonia on the decision to submit a draft, the appointment of a representative of the Commission and the procedural decisions at first reading. Aadu Must explained in the committee that Igor Gräzini, due to the end of the term of office of a member of the Riigikogu and due to the resignation of a member of the Riigikogu, Toomas Väinaste, from the Supervisory Board at his own request, will appoint new members to the Supervisory Board on the proposal of the Cultural Committee. The Group of the Estonian Reform Party proposed the appointment of Yoko Alender as a member of the Supervisory Board, and the Group of the Estonian Central Party proposed the appointment of Aadu Must as a member of the Supervisory Board, and the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposed the appointment of Henn Põljaas as a member of the Supervisory Board. Based on the results of the secret vote, the Committee on Culture invites the Riigikogu to appoint Yoko Alender and Aadu Must as members of the council of the National Library of Estonia. Mr Black proposed that the relevant draft decision be submitted. In the committee, it was decided to submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the council of the National Library of Estonia (the decision was consensual) and, if the Board of the Riigikogu adopts the draft and appoints it as a commission of culture, propose to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 27 September (the decision was subsequently consensual), appoint Heljo Pikhof (the decision was consensual), and propose to put the draft to the final vote (the decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U14	Thank you, good waitress. You don't seem to have any questions. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 692. We are preparing for the final vote. I vote on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint 'Member of the National Library of Estonia', submitted by the Committee on Culture, draft 692. Please take a stand and vote. There are 72 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, no against, no abstentions 2, no participants 7. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U15	We will go to the second item on our agenda, this is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the National Opera Council, tabled by the Committee on Culture. I would like to ask Heljo Pikhof, member of the Committee on Culture, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 17 September, the Committee on Culture discussed the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian National Opera, a member of the Riigikogu. All members of the Committee on Culture, Ms Angelika Berg, Head of Secretariat, and Mr Urvo Klopets took part in the meeting. Now the appointment of a member of the Riigikogu's "Member of the Council of the Estonian National Opera" on the decision to submit a draft, the appointment of a representative of the Commission and the procedural decisions at first reading. Aadu Must explained that due to the end of the term of office of Martin Repinski Riigikogu member, the Riigikogu appoints a new member to the National Opera Council on a proposal from the Cultural Commission. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposed the appointment of Toomas Väinaste as a member of the Council and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposed the appointment of Mart Helme as a member of the Council. Based on the results of the secret vote, the Committee on Culture proposes that the Riigikogu appoint Toomas Väinaste as a member of the Estonian National Opera Council. Mr Black proposed that the relevant draft decision be submitted. In the committee, it was decided to submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Riigikogu's Board of the Estonian National Opera (the decision was adopted by consensus) and, if the Board of the Riigikogu adopts the draft and appoints it as the commission of culture, propose to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary by 27 September (the decision was adopted by consensus), appoint Heljo Pikhof as the representative of the committee (the decision was consensual) and propose to put the draft to the final vote (the decision was subsequently consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-27_U17	Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions for you about this draft decision either. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 693. Let's get ready for this. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Appointing a member of the National Opera Council', tabled by the Committee on Culture, 693. Please take a stand and vote. There are 68 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, no against, no abstentions 5, no participants 10. The decision has been taken and today's agenda is over. Happy Thursday to all of you! Closure of the sitting at 10.17 a.m.
