ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 28 members of the Riigikogu can participate in Question Time. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, and Toomas Tõniste, Minister of Finance, will be present. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U2	The first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and the first questioner is Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! There are quite a few aspects of alcohol policy in general. For example, in today's report, the Association of Doctors stresses the importance of reducing the availability of alcohol, advertising restrictions, social attitudes and the development of young people's attitudes. One aspect of alcohol policy is certainly the country's tax policy, excise policy, and here your government has completely failed. Today we have the facts on the table. The assessment of the new Institute of Economics confirms that the decline in alcohol consumption over the last five years has reversed, Estonia's excise and VAT revenues are going to Latvia's budget, the number of Finnish tourists is falling and over 40 small shops were closed last year. The only winners of your government's insane excise policy are the keepers of border Alko1000 and SuperAlko wholesale stores. Please tell me if, apart from these border liquor stores, there are any other winners of your insane excise policy!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U4	President of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! When I asked you a very emotional and active question, I wondered what would have happened if this coalition, which opened its way to border trade in 2014-2015, had set out the so-called tax ladder for alcohol excise duties, had continued. The current coalition has decided that this path cannot go further. I'll take just one example, the same strong alcohol excise. The coalition at the time decided that the coalition led by the Reform Party had to rise by 10% in the beginning of 2018. The current coalition said we would not agree. On 1 February 2018, we halved the increase in excise duty on alcohol, and now, according to the country's budgetary strategy, the government has completely abandoned the increase in alcohol duty in 2019. Of course, you mention border trade, which is a very important aspect and which has been the result of the fiscal policy decisions of the coalition. In fact, there was quite a piece of work to change the powerful tax ladder that you put in place in 2014‐2015 under the leadership of the Reform Party. But I am glad that we have reduced the excise duty on strong alcohol since the beginning of this year and completely canceled the increase from the beginning of next year. I'm sure our discussion will continue today. I think that today's visit to the association of doctors and to the association of family doctors was very appropriate and we will be able to continue to debate this issue on the following issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U5	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U6	Thank you. The previous coalitions and governments are the previous ones, right now you are the head of government, and I hope you will make decisions. When you made the government, you said we'd come and decide now. Then make up your mind! In April, the Latvian State published its budget strategy and its stability programme, showing the increases in their alcohol duty for the next four years. If we maintain the status quo for Estonian rates, the Latvian rates will not reach that level so that border trade can start to decrease. I wonder if you will rule out this option in order to slightly reverse the latest increases in Estonian alcohol excise duty with the aim of reducing border trade and all the negative effects it entails.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U7	Aivar Sõerd, a very respected member of the Riigikogu! I will not rule it out, the current government is working for it. You were very right to make a decision. Seventeen years had time to decide, but the current government has really made decisions. If you ask me whether I will rule out a certain reversal in excise policy, I recall one concrete step: in November 2016 the new coalition said that this increase in excise duty on diesel, which had been agreed by the previous government, which was unwaveringly led by the Reform Party, could not take place at the beginning of 2018. There was no increase in excise duty on diesel at the beginning of this year. It's a specific decision, Mr Sõerd. But the fact that I've found a good partner and a good thinker in you is of great value. In political culture, the opposition and coalition should actually build bridges, not walls. I might not even be as critical of the previous coalition as you are, suggesting they didn't decide. But I understand that this impatience of decisions had to be made much earlier. I repeat. Your 2014/2015. The 2008 decisions triggered border trade and in 2016 the Reform Party also led the government. Your decisions led to a 15% increase in the excise duty on spirits in February 2015. This is what actually triggered the high level of border trade. And the 2014 so-called "alcohol excise duty" tax ladder anticipated an increase of 10% in the excise duty on spirits in early 2018. The current government halved it. These are very specific decisions. In addition, of course, this VAT on accommodation establishments, which we have discussed so much with you, did not rise to 14%, but remained at 9%, which also helps the Estonian business environment. Thank you for your good cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U8	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U9	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! It must be a little embarrassing to watch and listen to the leg trampling of the Reform Party on excise policy. But the fact is, your government took office and raised excise duties. Do not tell us about diesel excise, because in order to compensate for this increase, gas excise duty was increased, resulting in a warm appreciation of 200,000 at home. This cannot be carried from Latvia, unlike the things that are currently being brought from Latvia. The result is also a deterioration in the competitiveness of the Estonian economy compared to its neighbours. So the price of petrol and diesel is indeed where Taavi Kõivas raised it, but the price of alcohol is where your government raised it. There is a very simple difference between you and the Reform Party: you are in power, they are no longer. What are you going to do now that this policy has failed, with the exception of maybe the members of the government? Is there going to be any changes, or are you going to keep talking with your eyes closed about what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U10	Thank you. I really wish that principle in Estonian politics, that everything is dogmas, stoned, such a political culture would change. And I think that in a pretty strongly changing world, we also need to review certain decisions in cooperation with the Riigikogu. You said 'awkward' about the Reform Party, which I believe is currently in opposition to you, and I say this sincerely, a good cooperation partner. You've joined forces, and that's the way it should be. The Union of the Reform Party and the EKRE in the opposition is, in my opinion, a very significant alliance alongside the current coalition. This is, in fact, what the opposition must do to find the common ground and work together. After all, the Reform Party and the EKRE have very similar positions on a number of points. So I wouldn't say that the actions of the Reform Party are somehow embarrassing. They do their actions and do them as best they can. I guess we all get figuratively the grades in the spring, 3 March next year. Now, if you're asking me if we're taking any real steps, I answered Mr Sõerdi's question twice. I can answer again, even though you were in the hall and you had to hear it when you wanted to. In the case of strong alcohol, we halved the increase in excise duty this year, which was really the decision of the Reform Party, your current partner, and we canceled the increase from next year. True, I do not deny that in the case of lean alcohol, if you ask me about it, the excise duty increased. But in the light of the new decisions, the excise duty on lean alcohol has also fallen, and in 2019 the increase will be completely eliminated. And I wouldn't put an end to the increase in excise duty on diesel, so, uh, let it be. I think that this increase in excise duty has been canceled, and it is also well-important for Estonian business and the population in terms of inflation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U12	Next, Monika Haukanõm will ask the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõnis. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister of Finance! On the first question, you could see how hot it gets when you talk about alcohol policy and alcohol excises. We will continue the debate on the same issue with you. Since you're the Minister of Finance, let's look at more numbers and cancel the more round talk. Last year, 276 million alcohol excises were planned, but in fact 221 million were received, which is 55 million less than planned. We have adopted the state budget law that you have submitted. And what do we see from there, to our great surprise? We have planned for this year that alcohol excise duties will reach EUR 341 million, which is 120 million more than the amount actually received last year. To be honest, I think it's wishful thinking and a little utopian thinking. How do you plan to meet this objective, because there should be a balance between expenditure and revenue in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U14	Thank you for your question. The issue of excise duties really fuels passion and, as you can see, there is no hope of getting out of it. Speaking of figures, this year's budget was put together according to last summer's economic forecast, where the number of alcohol excises received is higher than it is already known to be. We also made corrections here on the basis of the spring forecast and by confirming the four-year budgetary strategy. We have also made corrections with the knowledge that there will be no increase in excise duty next year, and so there will be no stockpiling at the end of this year. And since the planned increase in excise duty at the beginning of this year was half as much, this year's revenues will be smaller. As a result of the withdrawal of the increase in excise duty next year, the forecast in our budget as a whole will decrease by 28 million euros and excise duty of 258 million euros is expected to be collected this year. That's over 30 million more than it was this year. In the first four months, excise duties on alcohol have been received according to forecasts and 15% more than at the same time in the previous year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U15	Questions to be specified. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! 258 million you've planned 241 million instead of this is a very big difference. And when we think about the goal that we have wanted to achieve, it has not actually succeeded. Alcohol consumption has not actually decreased; it has remained practically unchanged or slightly, even as a percentage point increase due to cross-border trade. At the same time, we give the money away, but we deal with the costs and consequences here. Alcohol consumption involves, for example, health costs and all other forms of violence, such as criminal activity, in the relationship. Last week, information came from the Ministry of Finance that the Health Insurance Fund was down 11 million euros in the first quarter. If we line up all these numbers, we have a serious problem. Perhaps you should also discuss this with the relevant Latvian minister and begin to harmonise these excise duties in some way, because there seems to be no end to this race?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U17	Thank you. I have spoken to my Latvian colleague on this subject several times. They have agreed on a longer-term ladder of alcohol duty rises that they adhere to. Indeed, here in the Riigikogu, too, we once had such a broad-based agreement as to what this ladder must be like. And, unfortunately, when this was changed at the end of 2014, under the leadership of the Reform Party, they were steeped up, and I was not satisfied with it, at that point no clear answers were given as to why it was being done. It was said to promote health, but there was no reason to carry out a larger, more in-depth economic analysis of these effects. Then began border trade, which already accounted for more than 5% in 2016 and has moved forward at an increasing pace. Yes, today we have a situation where excise increases have crossed the border. We can see the results of this: border trade towards the south has increased and the north has decreased. Finland does not come to Estonia as many shopping tourists, some of them now go to Latvia. In Latvia, excise duty receipts from border trade have increased by an estimated EUR 25 million, of which, of course, a large part is the contribution of Latvia's own people who go to these border shops to buy alcohol, as well as that of Finnish tourists. So it is certainly not just the contribution of the Estonian people here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U18	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I think you were a member of the Riigikogu when this green book on alcohol policy was prepared. Indeed, this sluggish tax rise ladder was also recorded in the Green Paper in 2014, but then it all went under water: the two previous governments have violated these principles and created both the risk of secret alcohol and the risk of border trade. Now that Mr Ossinovski has escaped from the government and it is still inappropriate to ask the new minister, I must probably ask the Minister of Finance whether the government is dealing with this problem at all. The long-term perspective of alcohol policy should be fixed. Is the Green Paper's new version on the agenda? And as your minister of finance, how do you see this excise dynamic, let's say, in a 20-year perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U20	Thank you. I say this has also been the subject of heated disputes in the coalition. Some have considered the health aspects of excise increases to be more important, some have seen concerns about their impact on the wider economy. I welcome the fact that, by drawing up a budget strategy that essentially fixes the budget for next year, we have already foreseen that we will not plan for an increase in alcohol duty. This is, in fact, a very clear and forward-looking step. We know that our neighbours are planning an increase in excise duty, which will allow for convergence at these levels. Latvia's excise duty on alcohol has been lower than we have in the past, and until it was reasonably lower, it was not such a big problem. But speaking of border trade a little more, economic development has been faster in Estonia and the standard of living has run away from the southern neighbours. Thus, prices are also cheaper there. So it's not just the excise that creates the price difference on the border. This is also due to the strategy of border shops to sell at a cheaper price in order to earn from more turnover. So there's a lot of factors here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U22	Now Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer the question posed by Arno Sild. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! This booze talk's starting to blow your head off, so let's talk a little bit about sports. I was moved to turn to you right now about what is happening around Tartu basketball. Isn't that a sign of the first step of the Estonian basketball down? And what happens next, what's your vision? You're a big basketball fan. What is your vision of how we should move forward with basketball in Estonia? That's one. And secondly, what can the government and ministers do to help make sure that basketball continues to be good in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U24	Very honored Arno Bridge! When I saw this question yesterday, I had a discussion with you here in the Riigikogu. As far as I know, you have raised over 45 questions in Question Time at the XIII Riigikogu. The future and state of agriculture, the state of administrative reform and cultural policy have made your heart sore. You have asked about the UN's happiness ranking and also about the Tallinn-Helsing tunnel. And now we've reached basketball. So it can be said that we have come to cover all the important issues in our country. I thank you very much for this question, because I really like sports and when you talk about the basketball you asked about, I like it too. I do not like the situation that the Estonian basketball card has taken a very big step backwards from Tartu in its history and roots. Yes, I understand that this is about financial matters. If you ask what the government can and has done, I will begin with recognition of the previous government. While at one point there was a question of scholarships, then the government at that time decided to help finance youth coaches with a fifth or higher category. On the other hand, the current government has decided on two things: one is top sport support in the state budget strategy in the order of 8 million and the other is the decision to finance major cultural and sporting events. Now, what can be done? I very much hope that the city of Tartu, the University of Tartu and the entrepreneurs there will still come behind the basketball and the basketball dance of Tartu will survive. Your concern is entirely justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U25	Arno Bridge, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U26	Thank you. Prime Minister! I cannot understand why a basketball union in the press publicly denies itself of solving this problem. What's this about? What does a basketball union do if it doesn't do such an important thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U27	Thank you. I am still based on the fact that NGOs operate independently and autonomously. I am not a member of NGO Estonian Basketball Association. I have really been a member of its board, and I have also had the honour of volunteering as President, but I completed this work at the end of 2016. After that, no one took over the Presidency except our basketball legend Jaak Salumets. If you have concerns about the Estonian Basketball Association, you should contact them directly and ask them what they do. In general, I think they contribute quite a lot to youth sport, including the fact that more and more girls and boys from all over Estonia are coming to play basketball. It must be one of their visions, the other is, of course, an international output. I mean, what the government actually meant by its allocation, is that top athletes, our youth teams, I'm now not just talking about basketball, but about teams at all, getting into the international arena, getting experience, and being in the picture as women and teams when they get far, in terms of competition. I actually understand you because our basketball has strong roots. Let's look at the birth and development of basketball. On 6 and 7 June 1920 the first national youth sports competitions for studying were planned in Kalev Sports Square in Tallinn. There was also a novel game of baseball. Whether the gymnasium and real school teams of the gymnasium and the real school were faced, and what the result of the game was, are not exactly found in the search of archives, of course not Estonia's victory over the former US team. So these traditions have been strong for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U28	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U29	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! I am asking at all about the financing of sport, based on the draft law on the abolition of the Gambling Tax Council, which was pending in this Chamber last week. In my opinion, the slightly longer-term impact of this is that the entire resource released will be transferred and transferred to the sport roofing alliances. This means that, as a whole, small events are suffering, so-called smaller motivators, who are more supportive of sport on the ground. What is your motivation, as a representative of the coalition, for reducing the flexibility of support for sport? After all, small activities remain in the background alongside large activities supporting top sport. When we talk about mobility, about child obesity, about the health of our people at all, it does not make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U30	Thank you. This is where the current coalition has taken three very concrete and vigorous steps. First of all, support for the same top sport, as I have already answered Mr Arno Silla's question. Secondly, support for large sports centres in county centres. We have agreed that the government will support them. Thirdly, in my opinion, the main thing: the local authority is still the closest to the resident. I understand that this issue of small grants, i.e. smaller sports events, running events or other sports activities, comes out of your question. We have had an embarrassing situation since 2009. When Estonia was experiencing a difficult economic crisis and the budget decreased, the local governments were also deprived of the income base: the percentage of personal income tax fell from 11.93 to 11.4. The current government has decided that this percentage must be restored, and we have restored it. That's 30 million a year. After all, local authorities are actually the place to which very many sports organisations and NGOs are addressing to be helped in organising smaller events. So it is certainly a very concrete positive step towards maintaining and further developing the local community. The second place you can make such applications is cultural capital. And thirdly, I think that the private sector must be recognised as a very clear link with Mr Silla's question, because more and more the private sector is taking part in sporting events in the form of sponsorship. This actually demonstrates our entrepreneurs' desire to contribute back to society, including their desire to contribute to people's health.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U32	The next question is the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, Urve Palo. Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U33	Good chairman of the sitting! Good minister! One of Estonia's most valuable assets is the success story of our e-governance. We have gained world-wide recognition through it, and it has also become part of our identity. Recently, however, we have observed with concern that the government is not investing enough in e-state development. The expansion of the broadband network has been accompanied by exchange rate changes and, therefore, delays, and objective facts are now showing a lack. We have lost our leading position in the digital development ranking of the countries, in the DESI index, in the field of e-governance and also in the overall accounts. Estonia is also not found on the platform of initiatives to digitise industry set up by the European Commission. Last November, you promised companies a digitalisation support measure, but it has not even seen the light of day. My question is why we are not making progress in the digital field.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U34	Thank you very much, good questioner. I am sincerely pleased that I have an opinion in the Reform Party with whom to discuss these matters. Only one thing I cannot agree with you: I believe that Estonia's greatest asset is the people of Estonia. But the e-state is certainly one important thing that has been well developed since 2000, when the government was led by Mart Laar: the X-Road has been built, the ID card has been set up, etc. When we talk about e-state developments, we are still the first in the DESI index. But the very, very high concern we face in these reports is the integration of digital technologies. On this point, last year we were the last, the 20th, this year we may have risen by the 19th, but obviously this is no big step forward. So it can be quite clearly said that this is our new 'narrative' that needs to be dealt with at government level because the e-state needs to be further developed. The e-state has made huge investments in this year, 135 million, which represents half a percent of GDP. For the next four years, an additional 117.5 million has been planned for the country's budget strategy, the RES. So to say that the state does not contribute to the development of the e-state is certainly unfair. On the contrary, these sums have increased considerably, even repeatedly, when we compare with previous governments, but there has been a need for this. However, when we talk about this new narrative and the great bottleneck, i.e. the integration of digital technologies, the current government is also taking vigorous steps here. The current government is also the first to talk about the fact that, unfortunately, it is not enough to develop the e-state alone; we must also help businesses come after them, they must digitise their businesses and industry. And for that, we have a lot of measures that will open up this month or next month. I'd love to talk about it. So I hope you ask again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U35	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U36	Thank you. I have a question because we are also discussing the development of e-services in the Committee on State Reform. There are two big issues. One big issue is that it is very important for us to have cross-use of services when it comes to the concept of public buildings. Is this being dealt with? How far is it with the development of services, so that e-services reach people? Today, unfortunately, the Minister of Public Administration is only engaged in the construction of new houses, not the development of services, which is much more important to people. Secondly, I heard that you signed a regulation today, which is why we can finally begin to tackle the high-speed introduction of the Internet, which is very important in creating jobs, including remote jobs, when we talk again in the context of public reform. So when do we get the first hundred kilometers off the fast Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U37	Thank you, good questioner! Very many very good questions about a short time, I will try to answer quickly. I'll start with the last one. Indeed, in order to announce the call of the Technical Surveillance Authority to find the founder of the last mile, I have signed the order, it is in force. The Technical Surveillance Authority is expected to launch a competition before Midsummer and it is planned to give companies a peaceful time to participate. September 15th is scheduled for the date we wait for the bids. And we expect the private sector to make a strong contribution to the country's 20 million. By the way, when we're talking about the DESI report, the next thing that's gonna take us down there is that we're running out of base grid coverage. We are 25th in the 28 countries. And that's why the government is working on it. Currently, only 25% of the fixed addresses are covered in the base network. I hope that in five years' time, when the results of this competition have come true, we can talk about the fact that most of the addresses where people live are connected to today's permanent Internet network. You asked when the first kilometers would be set off. The winner of the contest will be announced in mid-September, and then it will be up to him to start working and implement in five years. With regard to cross-use and all this, we deal with this very strongly every day. The same 135 million, this year's investments, are also largely aimed at this, for example, a thorough overhaul of the tax administration, preparation of an electronic census, the process of setting up a business and updating the relevant business registers, simplifying the process of applying for environmental permits, further developing information systems for social security benefits, etc. The idea is precisely that the e-services we have must work and be user-friendly and cross-use.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U38	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U39	Good minister! I want to help update your current knowledge. If you take the DESI index apart, you will see that in 2018 we will be others in the category of digital public services. But I have one more question. Estonia has so far excelled as a pioneer in e-governance. I want to ask you what you think is the next major narrative in the digital field in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U40	Thank you, good questioner! Once again, I was talking about e-government. In terms of e-government services, we are in first place: 96% of 100%. When we talk about public digital services in general, there we are in second place. We have been led down by problems with the completion of pre-filled forms and e-services. These are precisely the things that the current government has made an additional contribution of 117.5 million so that, under the leadership of the previous government, what you also belonged to, in large part, the hurrah- and exciting-based projects made with European money would not remain this way. We understand that if we develop e-services or create a new service, it is not a one-time process. This is something that needs to be dealt with further, where both human resources and money must be contributed. From next year, a 20% increase in pay has also been taken into account for the people who are working on these topics in the Republic of Estonia, i.e. ICT workers, precisely because it is not a topic that is developing in itself, it is necessary to contribute both human resources and money at all times. You asked about a new narrative. I actually talked about this for a long time in my previous reply, but I am very happy to talk about it now. The new narrative is that we have to help our private sector. If the private sector does not catch up in terms of digitisation, there is no hope that wages and living standards will increase in Estonia. The fact that the productivity of the manufacturing industry has remained at 54% of the European Union average for the last ten years is something that is no longer just a business problem. This is already the problem of the Estonian state, and that is why we have new measures, be it digital audit measures that will be opened from this month, product development measures or additional loan guarantees for KredEx, in order to obtain credit for the development of the industry, everything is aimed at helping our industry. It is and must be our new narrative.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U42	Question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Your government's third minister of government, Janek Mäggi, responded on Monday to our inquiry into the conclusions of the administrative reform. It was probably not very surprising that he said, among other things, that it was a little early to draw conclusions at the moment. This was actually accepted by the heirs here, and a longer analysis is likely to be needed. What surprised us a little more is that he felt that a rather sharp increase in wages to the local government leaders had been justified. And we were seriously surprised by his statement that people's lives in Tallinn are considerably more difficult than in counties and peripherals. We would now like an answer from you whether you feel the same way. Is there no more of this periphery problem? Since Minister Mäggi made such a statement, I ask why it is bad for people to live in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U44	Mr. Herkel, I'm going to be way behind your political experience here, but I'm going to try to give you a little answer. First of all, as far as I am concerned, Janek Mäggi, responding to your inquiry on Monday, pointed out that preliminary analyses of the membership of the post-accession community and city government staff have shown that the number of managers in the 51 municipalities that joined the reform has decreased by nearly a quarter and the number of specialists carrying out support functions has decreased by almost a fifth. This also coincides with one of the objectives of the administrative reform. In any case, I support Janek Mägg's position here. You ask whether it is harder to live in Tallinn than in remote areas. I was not here for the debate on questions, and I do not know what the context was. But this principle, which was once stated by a former mayor of Tallinn, that come all to live in Tallinn, I certainly do not support. But what I have to say is that the sentence of the former mayor Jüri Manor is unfortunately beginning to come true. I think it must be resisted that people in our regions, our peripheral regions and our islands, too, can live, do their daily chores. This means access to education, that is to say, the shoulder of transport, which certainly also means the availability of private sector jobs. So I think we've made an effort. Let's take the answer to the last question that Küllik's Hatter asked Urve Palo. After all, the point of the last mile is that people can carry out their work outside the centers. In the regions of Estonia, life in the country must continue in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U45	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U46	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The previous question was motivated by the fact that at the South-Estonian opinion festival a button was made into the AK, where people said directly that, as a result of the administrative reform, they feel that they are no longer on the outskirts of Estonia, but are on the outskirts of Estonia. Perhaps they do not feel that the administrative reform has given them more security and security. Yesterday, we learned from the National Audit Office's report that the capacity of local governments, for example, to put e-services or e-security in place in their house is almost non-existent. What are your next strategic steps as Head of Government to deal with real problems and human-centred leadership in local governments? Again, I would like to point out that the Minister for Public Administration is working on the construction of public buildings, not on the development of services, which gives rise to a further lack of confidence in the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U47	Thank you. I don't know where you're taking this strong aspect of building state buildings. On the contrary, the aim has been to ensure that certain services are available to a resident from one building in an operational manner. I do not think, and in the course of this coalition, no Minister of State Administration has ever thought that we are going to build 15 new state buildings. As we know, we have made an administrative reform which ended on 15 October 2017. We have taken very clear steps in terms of state reform, such as the loss of rural governments. The truth is that a lot of rural government buildings have been left empty, and now the question is whether state buildings could come. I think there's a lot of public buildings coming in. In the case of certain rural government houses, local authorities have requested that they should go to new, increased local authorities. For example, it has been decided in Kuressaare, Saaremaa, that the former rural government building will go to the municipality. Similar requests, signals have come from Põlva and Võru, for example. Here in Tallinn, the building where the Harju County Government was located has been requested by the local government association, namely the public transport centre. In some places, former rural government buildings are really completely unsuitable for municipalities, but there are very few. So there will certainly not be a mass building of new houses across Estonia. The aim has always been the availability of this particular service that you have highlighted. You say that the reform of the municipality has given nothing. I think if it had been done only on a numerical basis, on a population basis, that would be the case. But we have given the municipalities back the revenue base and we have given the municipalities a lot of tasks with funding. I think the municipalities have become a very strong partner for the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U48	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U49	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will now come from the country to the city with this question and touch on a problem that I have raised before. Indeed, most of the dark financial matters of political parties take place in the city. By decision of the Tallinn Administrative Court, the Centre Party must compensate for the forbidden donation of EUR 220 000 received from Paavo Petta through the sale of the house. That's the decision I made last week. There's another forbidden donation upstairs. My question is whether the finances of the Central Party have been honest and legitimate. Is the party's conscience clear in front of the funding committee? What is your assessment of this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U50	Thank you. When I read the title of this question, 'The Land and the City', which you now pointed out that you were coming from the country to the city, I remembered one of my father's sayings. Years ago, he remembered that the principle of summer children from city to country applied. But you want to come from the country to the city for the summer. I think the kids could still go from town to land, be there with their grandfather and grandmother, learn and do landscaping, whether it's a beet wreath or a dandelion wreath. You really want to get them in the urban environment. But all right, I understand what you're referring to. If you come to the Centre Party, the questions you're referring to come from years ago. I have said that the Centre Party has had financial problems. The political party has taken a very concrete step by selling its head office on Toompea. With this money, we must make up for the mistakes that the party has made. Do I feel that the Centre Party's finances are honest and clean right now? Yeah, I do. As the chairman of the party, I certainly do not consider the transactions that were made at the time to be correct. Now that the political party monitoring committee has taken its decision, we have two options: whether the party will pay the money or whether the dispute will continue before the administrative court. In any case, we recognise and testify to judgments. These issues need to be resolved. I didn't hide anything in public, and I didn't say that everything that was done by the party was okay. There have been difficult things that need to be resolved. In my opinion, the current board has quite successfully solved them. And I keep saying it's great that you have a great interest in one of your competition parties. You are always welcome to us, Andres, if you wish, then come, the doors are open.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U52	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U53	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I only have one brief question: did you attend the Bilderberg Group meeting last weekend as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia or as a private individual?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U54	Thank you. As Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U55	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U56	Thank you. Hence the question of continuation. In general, the public has been told about this meeting that people will come there as individuals. This is a closed event so that people can have free conversations without fear of journalists or any further questions that may not be justified. So people come in as civilians. Did you now change tradition and participate as a representative of the entire country, as Prime Minister? That's the first question. The second question: is this not comparable to a situation six years ago when the same question arose in Finland? The minister then also went to this meeting as a minister, in the form of a work mission for taxpayers' money, and had to reimburse the money afterwards. Is this situation different from your assignment? And thirdly, I have a reasoned question that was discussed there, where it came to, what discussions arose and what were the 'final solutions'. We have a right to know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U57	Thank you. Don't be afraid of journalists! There's no need to be afraid of them. I'm not scared either. Journalists are good partners, and I think they're doing their job very professionally. At the end of the Bilderberg conference, I gave at least three interviews to Delfi, Postimees and ERR, and there is nothing secret. There is indeed a Chatham House rule, which also applies to certain meetings in Estonia. For example, in 2012, I was able to attend higher national defence courses, which included the same principle. But it is not at all forbidden to talk about what my positions were at this Bilderberg conference and what we discussed. I will answer your question, which was then discussed. During these discussions, where I participated, there was a discussion, point one, the issue of US leadership, and point two, the ambitions of the Russian Federation. The nature and problems of the post-truth society were certainly also discussed. North Korea's topics and Italy's current state of affairs were discussed. In addition, the future work, the digital society and the artificial intelligence were still under discussion at this conference. These were the topics that were the subject of a completely open debate. Prime ministers from other countries also took part. I am very pleased that there were also quite a large number of journalists and media representatives, as well as representatives of universities and entrepreneurs. After all, the main message of the Bilderberg Group conference has been to maintain and further develop the transatlantic relations between North America and Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U58	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! When you visited this event as Prime Minister, you are accountable to Estonian society and not as general as you are now and not as general as in interviews with the press. When questions of vital importance to the Republic of Estonia, such as the leading role of the United States and Russia's relations, are being addressed, we are interested in your specific views, the positions you took and the views expressed by other participants at the event. And does participating in the event also give rise to any guidelines or obligations for the Republic of Estonia, the implementation of which we will see in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U60	Thank you. Now, it is a good thing that you, Mr Helme, are asking specific questions, and it is a good thing to answer them. No, no guidelines, no agreements, no conclusions or declarations will be made at the Bilderberg conference. There is really an open debate. You asked me exactly what I said. I said that in the case of Russia, we must take account of what has happened in recent times. I brought out Georgia and Ukraine. I also pointed out Salisbury, an example of a chemical weapon attack. And I said that transatlantic relations are very strategic and very important for Estonia in this context. In addition, there were quite a number of face-to-face meetings at the Bilderberg conference, bilateral meetings. I was pleased that the NATO Secretary-General, with whom we received quite a few hours, also attended this conference to discuss the subject of the forthcoming NATO summit. Of course, I was able to discuss the issues of the European Union with my good colleagues from the Netherlands and Belgium. So these were the important issues that were discussed there. If you want to ask me more specifically, of course I will. There was no verbatim report at this conference, as far as I know, but my positions and what was debated can be talked about in any case. I think this form is appropriate to maintain transatlantic relations and develop them further. There were indeed at the table, as I said, the press, entrepreneurship and the public sector, including representatives of NATO, the European Union and the European Commission. This is, in my opinion, a very right and very good approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U62	Küllik's Hatter asks, and Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers again. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U63	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The Free Party Group has proposed, in the form of a draft, that duplicate ministerial positions from ministries be abolished. This concerns the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. Since it is not possible to have a direct dialogue with the government during the negotiations, I decided to use the Question Time form. Let me give you an example. Last time Urve Palo was in briefing and we talked about the very same regulation on the high-speed Internet that was stuck. As a representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Competition Authority and Jaak Aab pointed out very serious shortcomings, for example in the area of state aid and public procurement. You could have assumed that MKM had all this competence. At the moment, it seemed that there were two agencies in one ministry and that all competences had been dissipated. Estonian Airi...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U64	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U65	Would it still not be reasonable to restore the situation that there is a chief in one ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U66	Thank you, good questioner! You're on a question like a few years ago. It is indeed possible for the Prime Minister to decide, on a sectoral basis, the division of labour between ministers. I think it started in 2014 when Taavi Kõivas became Prime Minister. It is actually possible for the Prime Minister to decide that the Minister may work for a certain period of time. For example, what I know was once considered is whether or not we could have a special minister during the Presidency of the European Union? Eventually, it was solved a little differently. It is very bad if you cannot have a direct dialogue with the members of the government. I'm sure it has to be an opportunity. I am open to dialogue with you: if you tell me where to come and what needs to be discussed, I am prepared to do so. And I am absolutely certain that the other 14 members of the Government of the Republic are also prepared to do so. I do not understand exactly whether you have a desire to cut because of the cuts or whether you have a fundamental or a different desire. We're gonna start taking it here in a row. First, MKM, Entrepreneurship and Information Technology. This has been a matter of great priority for this government, not only theoretically but also practically, including in terms of budget. I honestly say that entrepreneurship and information technology should certainly be represented separately at the moment, and Urve Palo is doing this very well. This is actually an opportunity to receive foreign investment. Only recently, five or seven minutes ago, you asked when the first miles of the last mile would be completed. Let us take the following example: the Minister of Public Administration, who is under the Ministry of Finance. The reform of the municipalities needed to be completed, and the reform of the state needs to go further. There is also a need for focus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U67	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U68	Thank you. We have three arguments. First of all, it was clear on management issues. In this very hall, we social affairs ministers have started to think about each other, especially if there has been a change of government, there is no understanding of what someone is ultimately responsible for. Second, competence. I gave an example in the previous question, which was very clear in terms of competence, there are setbacks. And the third argument is, of course, the cut-off. When we talk about these three ministers and their political advisors, we estimate that savings could be about half a million euros. Yes, Taavi Rõivas created these new dubious posts, which raises the question of who is the Deputy Minister and who is the so-called Prime Minister. But I understand that his decision was related to setting the corresponding priorities. I think that when the new coalition comes together, it is normal for it to see if there is any need to change the emphasis and make structural changes. Is this duplication correct? Why did you take over the priorities of Taavi Clothes? Where are Jüri Ratas and his government priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U69	Thank you, good boy. Dear member of the Riigikogu, first you put everything together here. Point one: Ministers do not duplicate each other. Point two: you were upset and you made the example of the social ministers that they had begun to think among themselves here. I dare characterize the current government as all ministers really think, and I cannot stand up to that. If you are upset that the two social ministers are thinking about each other here, exchanging arguments, discussing and debating, a good discussion will take place to find the best solution for the people of Estonia, I think it is only commendable. Please also, who are you from the Free Party, do not kill the debate, allow the discussion to continue! In my opinion, the Free Party has rather been open to debate, thinking that there should be such conversations. Now you're saying it's bad. One person away from it is about the same old principle that if we need to eliminate a problem, we take a person away. I don't think so. I think the debate will take it forward. Now for the cut. Yes, most likely, if you have done these calculations, half a million euros can really be cut. It is the same story that perhaps the Riigikogu should also be cut down, etc. Personally, I think that at this point in the case of the Riigikogu we should, in any case, stick to the tradition of these 101s are important. And it could be quite seriously discussed that members of the Riigikogu also have good advisors and officials. I think it would in any case increase the quality of their work, give a member of the Riigikogu time and opportunity to deal more with the procedure of draft laws. But, to sum up, this is a prime minister's arrangement, and these three ministers, the three ministries, in any case, are covering priority areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U70	I will conclude on this issue. We thank the members of the Government of the Republic! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U71	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the plenary session on Wednesday. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U72	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The special committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu has done an effective and consistent job. Pursuant to § 36 (5) of the Security Authorities Act, the Commission must provide the Riigikogu with an overview of the activities of the Commission at least once a year. The activity review shall cover the period from 13 June 2017 to 12 June 2018. The review has been prepared on the basis of the Commission's main tasks and functions. During this period, the main activities were: parliamentary supervision, regular monitoring and control activities of the agencies, discussions on the budgets of the security authorities, legal discussions with ministers and hearings, monitoring of the activities of surveillance and security authorities, issuing the Commission's position on the continuation of the Head of the Security Authority, handling statements and complaints. The Commission held 29 meetings, including four sittings on leave and one extraordinary sitting. The Commission shall verify the conformity of the activities of the security authorities with the Constitution. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U73	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U74	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I will hand over the draft Act amending the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities. Why? We're in the 18th of the 2000s. The draft goes back to 2006, i.e. 12 years ago, when social benefits for children with disabilities were last increased. This support has been at the same level for 12 years: 69 euros for medium-disabled children and 80 euros per month for children with severe and deep disabilities. But what has happened in 12 years? For example, the cost of living has risen by 47%, wages have risen by 69%, etc. If we look at the statistics again, we will see that the poverty rate for "whole families" is 18.5%, but that there are 26% of the families of children with disabilities at risk of poverty. What does the law say? The law states that this aid is intended to offset part of the additional costs of disability. This support, which has remained at the same level for 12 years, has long since ceased to meet this objective. Since the government has not wanted to do so, we are proposing a change in the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U75	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U76	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to hand over the report of the Special Committee on State Budget Control concerning our activities between July 2017 and June 2018. During this period we held 44 meetings and took 27 inspection reports into procedure. We had two joint sessions and three outing sessions. At this point, I would like to thank all the members of the Commission for their active participation and valuable contributions, of course also the National Audit Office, which is our biggest partner, the staff of the Commission and everyone else who has participated in the work of our committee. I will bring out the spring activities this year separately. In May, we discussed the country's budgetary strategy in the format of a key national issue. This was, as far as I know, the first time that the state's budget strategy has not been discussed in this format in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. And before the government completed the country's budget strategy, we also gave the Ministry of Finance our input from the Commission. We said what data and in what form we want to see in the country's budget strategy. But it's all in this report, and I'm happy to hand it over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U77	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U78	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending the Law on Public Transport. As you know, money has come into the area of public transport, but, for example, here too, a few weeks ago, the main dispute in the Committee on Rural Affairs and in the Committee on Economic Affairs was largely about how and who can give incentives, what the rules of the regulation are and what the Road Administration has to play. Much controversial in this area has created a very clear need to amend and revise the law on public transport and that is why we have tabled a corresponding draft. In principle, this draft increases the rights of the public transport centres to decide on fares and discounts, in fact, on the use of the ticket revenue received for development or administrative purposes. In parallel, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be deprived of his competence and given the authority of the Government. This could then be done twice a year if necessary. All of this should create additional legal clarity and give certainty to public transport centres and municipalities in particular, in order to implement the European principle of subsidiarity, which requires public transport to be organised as close as possible to the consumer, the user of the service, and also to be responsible for this service. According to this bill, the Road Administration would remain in control of this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U79	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U80	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitution says that everyone's property is untouchable and equally protected. The Commercial Code states that shareholders must be treated equally in equal circumstances. Unfortunately, the business practice in Estonia has revealed situations where shareholders' rights not only prelate to the rights of minority shareholders, but the rights of small shareholders are significantly restricted. For example, shareholders refuse to provide information on the welfare of the company to small shareholders. Similarly, in practice, the proposals made by small shareholders are often not discussed in substance, but are excluded from the general meeting due to a lack of sound. The rights of small shareholders and shareholders are not protected in Estonia's current law to the same extent as is generally the case in developed countries. For example, according to the World Bank's business environment study 'Doing Business 2017', Estonia is ranked 12th in terms of the ease of doing business, but the main obstacles to business are the lack of rules for weak insolvency proceedings, as well as the lack of protection for small or minority investors. In the same way, the lack of protection of small shareholders has been highlighted in the World Economic Forum's Annual Competitiveness Report The Global Competitiveness Report. Our Supreme Court already said in 2014 that the Estonian legislator must consider the creation of defence mechanisms for small shareholders as well. So far, the legislator has not done so, which is why, on behalf of 21 members of the Riigikogu, I am handing over the draft law amending the Commercial Code, which balances the rights of small shareholders and small shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U81	I have adopted three drafts, one review and one work report, and we will pass them on to all according to the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! The assembly has 87 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U82	Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu meeting regarding the processing of draft Personal Data Protection Act 616. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I will add to the agenda of today's sitting and add to the first item the political statement of the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. I will also present to you the procedure for this item on the agenda. First of all, the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, has a political statement for up to 20 minutes. Pursuant to § 155 (4) of the Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board and the Minister of Justice share the understanding that no questions are asked to the Minister. However, after the Minister's political statement, I will open negotiations to the representatives of the political groups. Please, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U83	Honourable President of Parliament! Good people's representatives! So here we are. When presenting the new Personal Data Act to the Riigikogu, I highlighted the objective reasons why Estonia's legal order needs a new law. In spring 2016, the European Parliament adopted new data protection rules that give people control of their personal data and create a uniform level of data protection throughout the European Union. The legal bases for the processing of personal data are widened compared to the existing legal regime. Man is more clearly and more in control of his data. For example, it will be easier to access your data, you will be informed in more detail about how the data will be processed, and it will be ensured that the relevant information is provided in a clear and understandable way. Secondly, there is a new right to transfer data, allowing easy transfer of personal data between service providers. Thirdly, there is a clearer right to delete data, i.e. the right to be forgotten. Fourthly, a person has the right to know about the attack on his personal data. The starting point for a new legal environment for the protection of personal data is that it is an indispensable prerequisite for the implementation of the digital market in Europe. It is a cornerstone so that we can move forward with pan-European rules that empower the digital market. Secondly, it certainly facilitates the activities of Estonian entrepreneurs who sell goods or services in other Member States and also process personal data. Due to the nuance of previous and quite different rules on the protection of personal data, Estonian entrepreneurs had to be aware of the requirements of all the Member States of the European Union. Following the entry into force of the Regulation, the platform provided for by this Regulation must be guided and will be consistent in the future. I would like to stress that the starting point for the new Personal Data Act, as I referred to, is the clarification of the new European Data Protection Regulation. It regulates matters relating to the protection of personal data that specify the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, such as the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, the processing of different types of personal data and the conditions applicable to the consent of the child in relation to information society services, as well as matters relating to supervision and liability. The second block contains issues left to the Member States to regulate, such as processing of personal data for journalistic purposes, artistic and literary self-expression, research and national statistics, archiving in the public interest, after the death of the data subject, in the credit field, in the public domain and for the protection of persons and property, as well as processing of personal data in the area of law enforcement. Good Parliament! We live in an increasingly digitalised world. Developments in the digital economy and e-government would be stunted if people did not trust the way businesses and institutions collect and use their data. The purpose of data protection law is to create certainty by giving people control over data about themselves and by laying down the responsibilities of data controllers. However, data protection is not about itself. The right to privacy and the right to the protection of personal data are not unlimited. The Personal Data Protection Regulation clearly states that the right to data protection is not absolute, but must be considered and balanced with other fundamental rights, including freedom of expression. Every society needs it so that the press can reflect the importance of unity freely and honestly. The right to data protection therefore allows for the necessary exceptions to the media when there is a public interest to intervene in private life. In this way, this bill came from the government to the representative of the people. It was no accident. So I answered Hanno Pevkur's question in Riigikogu Question Time as to why the government decided to abandon the term 'overweight' in the text of the draft law. I say: 'We need to understand that the European Data Protection Regulation, as a very clear deliberate choice, provides an exception here. Member States shall, without the consent of the data subject, provide for the personal data to be processed independently for reasons of journalistic interest. I attach importance to freedom of the press and its protection, which is why this amendment has also been introduced. Of course, the press has its own clearly defined framework for processing personal data without the consent of the data subject. I think that this was the starting point for the government to put forward such a draft law in this regard. ' In the proceedings of the Riigikogu, the word 'overweight' was added to the public interest, as it is in the current law. In itself, it can be said that the word 'overweight' simply expresses the fact that when fundamental rights are colliding, the question of who is considering the other is whether the right to private life or the freedom of expression justified by the public interest. But "overweight" has another meaning. What does it mean to win an overwhelming football victory? Not just score one: 2 or 0: 1, but, for example, score one: 7. If we were to take this understanding into the area of privacy and freedom of expression, they would become unbalanced. I would stress that the word 'overweight' has been referred to as the result of the earlier Directive on the protection of personal data, but that is not the case. The earlier Personal Data Protection Directive states that where personal data are processed for the press, Member States shall provide for exceptions or deviations only where this is necessary in order to reconcile the rules governing the right to privacy and freedom of expression. No exclusive requirement for the use of the word 'overweight' is derived from the new Regulation on the protection of personal data, which entered into force, Article 85 of which expressly states that Member States shall reconcile the right to data protection with freedom of expression and information, including freedom of the press, with national law. The basic English word referred to in the public, which has been defined by the Estonian legal translation as 'important', concerns the presumption of a special type of processing of sensitive personal data in the domestic legal order. Good people's representation! I am far from joining the line of reasoning, as if the inclusion of the word 'overweight' in the current national law had been used in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as if it were a desire to bring about developments in Hungary and Poland, as Mr Lauristin has said. This is not, in my opinion, a relevant diagnosis in legal terms. Apart from the assessments of our good partner countries and the freedom of the media in these countries, I quote today's article by the attorneys Merlin Liisi and Eneken Tik of the Raidla Bureau, in which they rationally state that, taking into account the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights and the data protection authorities, there should be no difference in interpretation as to whether or not there is a 'overweight' term in the law. However, respectable lawyers stress that any text of the law should include words that have no independent legal meaning for the application of the law. The fired debate is far from legal. The authors of the article state that one word in this case has created a scandal of freedom of the press in Estonia, which has been dealt with by media figures, politicians and lawyers. Although the result of any legal dispute is unlikely to change as a result of the word that has become a controversy, the authors estimate that there is an impression that there is a desire to reduce the guarantees of freedom of the press in Estonia. It's a cognitive reality. In such a situation, the government today, on 13 June, wants the representative of the people to take part in the symbolic vote, not on legal terms, but on the protection of freedom of the press. The government continues to believe that the guarantee of trust and transparency in Estonian society is free media. And if the regulation protects personal data more strongly than the rules of the directive, we must also provide a stronger guarantee of freedom of the press in national law, which is why the government has submitted a draft to Parliament's proceedings without the term 'overweight'. The seven national legal systems of the 28 Member States have brought into force legislation specifying the European Data Protection Regulation. I prefer the subsequent adoption of the new Personal Data Protection Act to compromise the balance of fundamental rights, whether this is a legal threat or, above all, a psychological hazard, according to a number of assessments, or a potential risk of misinterpreting the press in the future, in a way that no one has asked for at least in words. On several earlier occasions, the legislator's wish for a majority has also changed in comparison with the will of the draft to be sent to second reading, but contrary to the state budget procedure, the Rules of Procedure Act does not allow for changes to be made at third reading. In view of this, on behalf of the Government, I withdraw the draft Personal Data Protection Act from the Riigikogu proceedings. What happens next? The European Personal Data Protection Regulation is in force and the current Personal Data Protection Act is in force with the exceptions resulting from the Regulation. Tomorrow I intend to submit a draft Personal Data Protection Act to the Government, the Riigikogu for discussion and decision, which does not contain this provision. It does, however, contain the other provisions which have been made in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as a result of the constructive cooperation to amend the draft. I hope for constructive cooperation with both the Riigikogu and stakeholders, as we have done so far. Thanks to the people's representation!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U84	I'm opening negotiations. Jevgeni Ossinovski, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U85	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Data Protection Regulation is an extremely important and substantial piece of legislation and, of course, its processing at government level has been quite lengthy and thorough, which is also relevant. Unfortunately, this cannot be said about the procedure of the Riigikogu, because the draft was obviously too late to be able to discuss it fully. This is probably one of the most important reasons why we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in this second-reading draft raised the concerns that we are dealing with today. The Social Democrats cannot certainly support the Reform Party's proposal to restrict the press more strictly than the European regulation requires. We believe that this is not appropriate in the democratic rule of law. Although the Minister of Justice also agreed with the government at the beginning of the procedure and the round of coordination had the same wording in the draft, as usual, the text that came from the government to the Riigikogu in the course of the government procedure is more correct and more democratic in line with the rule of law. Since we have reached such a stage in Parliament's procedure that the existing draft can no longer be amended, I want to congratulate the Government of the Republic for this step. The only thing right now is to withdraw the draft from the procedure and then re-initiate it without that word, because the text that goes to third reading in Parliament really does not express the political or initial will of the government on this very important issue. We believe that the adoption of this draft as such would have given the wrong signal to both the domestic and the outside world. Both have to be considered important. And we do not think that there are any major problems with the press in Estonia that the legislator should somehow restrict freedom of the press. But once again: as well as my good colleague Pomerants knows, I spoke several times in the committee that we could still keep the pace of the procedure optimal in the case of such a large and important draft, so that all the details can be considered comprehensively. Well, there are some reasons why it didn't work out. The necessary implementing legislation came from Europe too late, as usual. But I think that the result we have achieved is very reasonable: the law on the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act has also reached Parliament, and now we can deal with both together, which is appropriate and reasonable in every way. So once again, on behalf of the Socialists, I congratulate the government on this wise decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U86	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U87	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since this issue has gone very black and white, I will also say very clearly, as a start, that the Free Party Group will support all these solutions and steps that will better guarantee us freedom of the press. The introduction of the word 'overweight' in the Commission was obviously unthinkable; it should not have been done. But I will interpret this situation, which Parliament is now facing, a little differently. That is, the government retreats to overwhelming power, not to the arguments of common sense. These arguments of common sense have been put forward here. In the case of the pulp mill, public opinion was overwhelming, so you began to correct your views. First one of the government partners came off the record and then the other. Our fingers had nothing to do with this. In fact, a meeting of four ministers on this subject had long been held with entrepreneurs in secret. In this case, there is a retreat to the press, which has taken up this issue strongly. Behind this, however, I can see a much bigger problem - that is how, quite blindly, rather thoughtlessly, we stamp here the directives of the European Union without, in essence, discussing them. And actually, what has happened here is a complaint against the superficial nature of Parliament's procedures. The Minister for Justice should remember that at the time of the first reading of this draft, I asked him a question. This concerned the administrative burden for municipalities, which amounts to EUR 30000 to 35000 per year when transposing and adopting the Data Protection Directive. This is basically bringing a new position to all Estonian municipalities, which means that the costs amount to millions. The question of what becomes better than the current situation and whether it could be resolved in any other way, by redistributing the administrative burden and by not raising costs, was left without a substantive answer. During the second reading, too, a great many other problems were raised here, not just the question of the unfortunate word that has led our press to its feet. These questions also remained unanswered. A proposal was made to interrupt the second reading and to go further on this matter, which would have been a much more convenient solution for the Minister than the withdrawal or rejection of the draft, which would inevitably have happened here, if the government itself had not withdrawn the draft. So my conclusion here is that let us work more effectively with these directives, let us raise the quality of Parliament's work, let us also take into account the opposition's arguments, let us not reject them simply because they have come from the opposition. Then we will get a more high-quality legislative process than we have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U88	Marko Pomerants on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U89	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U90	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U91	Dear Chairman, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It would be foolish to fight against freedom of expression, and that is not what we are doing here. What is to be fought for? For the best balance between freedom of expression and the right to privacy of a person. The wording "overweighted public interest" is in force in the Republic of Estonia, in the Personal Data Protection Act on 1 January 2008, i.e. the press has been working under this law for the last ten years. But I also realize that they'd be willing to die before they call that fact somewhere in their media coverage. The last example of style is yesterday's "Actual Camera." For the money of the people, the taxpayer, the whole truth could be revealed in this picture. I hope that media representatives will not ignore this fact in their speeches. I hope that during the summer, the vocabulary of media representatives will have 'the right of individuals to privacy', and I do not want to say 'the right of data subjects' and the simple word 'balance'. For our part, we are working to better understand the public interest. See you in the fall!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U92	On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U93	Ladies and gentlemen, When it comes to intellectual property, Estonian lawyers tend to say that we do not have the protection of personal data. Of course, it's euphemism, but there are a lot of problems that we're really unregulated today. If the company wants to make a database of ordinary people's habitats, there's nothing to stop it from doing that. This law, which we proposed and what we would have discussed today, says that if a company (e.g. a shop) wants to monitor your shopping habits, it will have to ask you if it can make them into a database or not. Basically, we would have said today that your personal data, appearance and behavior are yours, and before you hang them to watch the weather, you always have to ask permission. What are reasonable exceptions? Yes, research must be possible and the press must be able to show the power behind the tent. That is what brings to all of us the complex but fundamental question of where the line between the legitimate public interest and the company's profit interest, the simple curiosity, the joy of making it, and the need for real knowledge. The word "overweight" is one way to solve this problem. 'Suspective public interest' does not mean that this interest belongs to some specially protected group of interests, which does not give politicians the opportunity to hide their activities. We are objects of overriding public interest anyway, because we have power. The public interest refers essentially to arbitrary news in our public space. An overriding public interest means a situation in which interference with personal data is less damaging than the result of non-publication. These are cases where the public interest outweighs interference with private life. The Centre Party protects a normal person's right to his/her private life and the right to have data about himself/herself. We fight to make sure big and powerful people don't do random things with people's data, what they think is good. But the last thing we want is for the press to feel muzzled. Without a free press, we will not do democracy. Therefore, we hope that the dialogue will continue. We will do our utmost to this dialogue, and we really hope that in the autumn we will achieve a solution to the problem mentioned above, which will satisfy all parties. The fact that the European Union directive requires the word 'overweight' is irrelevant at all. Firstly, because the exceptions are the competence of the Member States, and also because our legislation can still be justified by the best possible protection of the interests of the Estonian people, not by what the European Union directive means. We protect Estonian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U94	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If the Minister of Justice Reinsalu had been as fluent and precise as today during the proceedings on this bill, there would have been no confusion. No one has mentioned yet that the explanatory memorandum still speaks of an overwhelming public interest, even though this word has suddenly been lost in the draft. There is therefore a contradiction between the explanatory memorandum and the text of the draft text, which appears to have arisen in the course of the proceedings, as officials of the Ministry of Justice have still defended the word 'overweight' in the text of the law in the presence of witnesses. They say it's the right thing to do. But Urmas was balanced today, I would not like to criticise him, and I applaud this withdrawal of the bill, which was our proposal on Monday. I hope this would have happened even if the coalition partners had not reached a difference of opinion. This law is clearly needed, its necessity has been adequately described today, and it is a pity that it is being sacrificed. The problem is, of course, that there is an accusation of media muzzles in the air, and Estonian politics cannot afford that. So we are making a great sacrifice for this accusation, which is obviously exaggerated, probably disproportionate, and also unfair in this case. There is a risk in theory and, of course, we must not create these opportunities for the future, but the Estonian press has, fortunately, been free and such pointing has been redundant. The problem is that the balance of fundamental rights after these words, following these accusations, is seemingly at risk, and we cannot afford that. I'd blame Evgeny Ossinovski for his speech. He could not be dignified: he called the word change the Reform Party's proposal. The Reform Party has not discussed this word; it has not been given the opportunity to do so. However, the inclusion of this word in the explanatory memorandum and in the opinion of the experts was a practically unanimous decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and there is no point in looking for party politics here. Mr Ossinovski himself also voted in favour of this word in the committee. It is not dignified to come now and point the finger at a situation where the Commission was simply inconsiderate, as Mr Herkel said very well. What else can I add in this situation? The press apparently used its disproportionate influence over other stakeholders. Of course, we want the fourth power to have that power, but the Commission received 13 referrals only for the press to be taken to the debate, everything else was rushed aside, which is a problem in itself. I will mention this because the Minister of Justice has already promised to submit a new draft tomorrow. I'm sure it's his duty. But I very much hope that these other appeals and other concerns have also been discussed, i.e. the necessary changes have been made across the spectrum, or at least the Riigikogu is given time to discuss them. In summary, we will be defending the free press and, however, the right of the Riigikogu to process draft laws within the prescribed time limits, i.e. within the prescribed time limits according to normal practice, not as a matter of urgency. There is an urgent procedure behind the whole thing, and not a just one that I believe I can confirm on behalf of the entire Riigikogu, the attempt to turn the press in any way. This has not been done according to the current text of the law, nor was it probably intended to do so in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the process of dealing with the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U96	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U97	I'm asking for more time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U98	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U99	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that neither I nor Jürgen Ligi are members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but according to our representative, the proposal to add this specific word came from the representative of the Reform Party. In my opinion, we have completely lost sight of this whole debate. You will not find a person in my face who will pour crocodile tears in Estonia because of the muzzle of the press. The press muzzles itself perfectly, including its ideological opponents in Estonia. So I think it's a complete pseudo-issue. What should be said much more about, however, is that we had a 200-page regulation before us, with 99 points dealing with individuals, companies and public authorities, which, in a very thorough and sometimes very complicated way, place certain languages and commands on everyone whose daily violation is guaranteed. We had before us a bill that would, in principle, have done all of us, I say once again: everyday criminals from private individuals, businesses, public authorities and the same press. Let us say thank you to the European Union. The main issue is not this one stupid word, either 'overweight' or 'not overwhelming'. The main point is that, once again, some piece of regulation has rolled to us from somewhere in Brussels, on which we are shutting off the brains in this country: say it is and it is going to be, and we think it will make life better. I fully agree that in an explosive era of digitalisation, when everyone has in their pocket some equipment that basically monitors them all the time, ensuring privacy is a completely different problem or concern if it was 10 to 15 years ago, not to mention 100 years ago. This concern or problem is being addressed not only in Estonia but throughout the developed world. But as always, noble goals alone are not enough. The concern and the fact that everyone's data must be protected and secured, and they must be informed of everything, is not enough. This specific regulation does not help, it makes us all ordinary criminals. So the reason why we did not support this draft is not an argument over one unhappy word, because it is a complete pseudo-controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U100	Jürgen Ligi has the right to object. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U101	Thank you. My name was named, and in order to protect my honor, I have to give an explanation. The previous speaker questioned my words, but I assure you that the position of the Reform Party was not represented in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that a member of the Reform Party cannot take the text of the draft by his own hand to things that others do not support. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs was practically unanimous in adding this one word. And the urgency procedure is precisely the reason why neither we nor the other parties could shape their positions before that and why the experts were not heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U102	I will close this item on the agenda. The initiator has withdrawn bill 616 and it will fall out of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U103	We will proceed with the agenda: Third reading of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws 607. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U104	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is in itself born for a very noble purpose. It is also clearly born out of concern that the defence capabilities of the Republic of Estonia will be guaranteed and that people who are supposed to be members of the Defence Forces or who are expected to go to military service in the Republic of Estonia will not be able to decide at random whether they will act loyally and fulfil the obligation they have to the state. It's okay. In principle, the state must be a coercive in certain areas which it has taken as its monopoly, its most important task. National defence is undoubtedly the monopoly of the state and the task of the state, and its citizens are obliged to assist the state in carrying out this task and to fulfil their duty. It's a question of something else. The question is that liability and punishment must be in line with the infringement that has been committed. In this draft, these proportions are out of place and very clearly shifted into what we can call civil rights. The citizens have rights and are very clearly violated by this bill. I fully agree that a person who evades military service must be punished. If the current penalties are inadequate and I agree that they are inadequate, then the penalties must be tightened up. But these penalties cannot be rendered arbitraryly interpretable. If you're speeding, you can't take away your fishing permit. If you stab someone, that doesn't mean you're gonna be deprived of all other rights to have a rifle and I don't know what rights yet. I remind, by the way, the supporters of the Cohabitation Act that you love to repeat all the time: you cannot take away the rights granted once. Look, guys, I'm telling you the same thing: you can't take away rights once you've been granted. When a person has completed traffic courses, passed tests, paid state fees and obtained a driver's licence, he cannot be punished for another violation that does not affect traffic by withdrawing his driving licence. It is disproportionate, it is not in line with the logic of this infringement. I fully agree that the current sanctions are lenient. We'll increase the fines, we'll put in jail, we'll introduce some other sanctions, we'll expand alternative services! There may also be a lot of unpleasantness in alternative services. But what is being done now is to take away the boat driving licence, the hunting license, etc., etc., is to invade the rights of the citizen and I cannot agree with that. I recognise that there is no consensus in our group on this issue. Some members of our group agree that a citizen may be deprived of all his rights if he does not go to the armed forces to fulfil his duty. I, and most of our group, do not agree with the rules on penalties imposed at random by such a repressive state and such disproportionate officials. I therefore urge you all to reflect on whether it is not as the saying says: the road to hell is paved with good intentions. In this case, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. In order to ensure that people fulfil their civic duty to protect the state, we become a disproportionate repressive state. I can't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U105	On behalf of the Madis Milling Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U106	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker was extremely emotional in his speech, and I'm a little euthanizing, but he kind of painted a picture of the coming end of the world. I'm not that emotional. First of all, can we use the word 'citizen's right' or 'human right' for driving licences? Well, listen, the driver's license isn't. It is certain that the different sanctions from the military service, the distractions from the military service, have fallen behind in time and, to put it mildly, have become a joke, which does not give a signal to any of the decoyers that it does not pay off. The previous speaker proposed an increase in financial penalties. But with financial penalties, there's always no place to take anything, there's no place to die. After all, we know how many people owe fines in Estonia. There's nothing we can do here, we can increase fines forever, but we can't get that money. Of course, the sanctions listed, whether the withdrawal of a driver's licence or a fishing permit or a licence to drive a water motor vehicle, do not mean that any such authorization is automatically withdrawn from a conscript at the same time. No, sanctions always apply in a growing trend. First there's some kind of warning, then there'll be a lower financial penalty. In particular, these new sanctions are intended for those who are chronic bystanders who have so far whistled to these fines and other sanctions, to say the least. A person who has chosen to take the thorny path of disfellowshipping from military service must know what can be expected of him if he ignores his constitutional obligation. And taking off a driver's license, for example, is not up to any official. It all goes through a thorough procedure to the courts. After all, none of us complain about it or talk about human rights and civil rights if we can take away the driver's license from a non-payer for a living. But if a person doesn't fulfil his constitutional duty, it's like violating civil rights. It is a good law, it has a good preventative effect on the distractions of military service, and the Reform Party Group supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U107	I'm closing the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since draft 607 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, the verification of presence, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It's so nice that when Jürgen comes to the hall, you always have to ring a bell. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 607. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the bill 607, against 7, with 2 abstentions. The law amending the Defence Service Act and other laws has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U108	Draft 400 third reading of the Act on the Election of the European Parliament and the Amendment of Other Laws, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U109	Ladies and gentlemen, Today has been a moody day, and it will certainly continue with the adoption of this bill. Unfortunately, we're sending the wrong message out of this hall. The message is we're not going forward, we're going back. And with this going back, there could be the same argument as what individual words to use, whether or not to add one word, as we have just heard here from the Minister of Justice's speech. But actually, we know that the message of this small change is much wider. The message is that we don't trust our e-elections. That's what the government wants to say today. As always with many drafts, there are good things about it. This has been said repeatedly from this remote control, and I also want to emphasise that the electronic electoral register is certainly a good thing. There is no doubt, certainly there is! But extending home voting certainly is not a good idea. This is one of the most unsafe, if not the most unsafe, method of election if we send someone home and tell him who to vote for. The numbers show the opposite trend. If there were ever about 5,000 people who used to vote at home, this figure has now fallen to 2,000 or even to the bottom of it. Voting at home is not the way you should use it. There is an alternative: there is an e-vote, there is an ID card. The choices that the country deliberately made in its own time were destined for the future. This choice, which we are now consciously making here with the coalition's voices, is the direction to the past. It's as simple as that! We now have the opportunity not to adopt this bill. The initiators did not want to withdraw it, although they could have. Here, too, a withdrawal proposal could have been proposed and maintained within the current framework, at least for the length of the electronic vote and without prolonging the vote at home. The law currently in force is generally a good law. Small clarifications are always possible, but as the classics say, there is no point in pricking the thing that works. Ladies and gentlemen, we see no reason to support this bill, and we hope that the coalition will also have the sense at the last moment to send a message to the Estonian people, as well as to the international community, that Estonia will not follow the path of the past, but always and only the way of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U110	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Külliiki Kübarsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U111	Good vice chairman! Good guys in the hall! Nor does the Free Party Group support this draft. It is a very strong signal that we do not need a further development of our success story, but rather subjugate and reduce the nature of our success story. This point concerns the regulation of the deadline for the e-vote. For us, it is important that we deal with issues that are much more important in terms of electoral laws. During this membership, the debate in the constituencies has been stretched for several years. After all, the situation has changed as a result of the administrative reform and regulation should be amended. Secondly, our Local Government Election Act, the Riigikogu Election Act and the European Parliament Election Act are essentially the same text with minor differences, but we are not able to bring this regulation under one roof. It's a little embarrassing! Thirdly, for us, the very important issue is how we involve and motivate our people who live outside Estonia to say their word. After all, these people have not spoken to Estonia until their death; they are away for certain vital reasons. The important question for us is how to keep them involved and by keeping it safe, bring them back to our society, to our country. But we're not dealing with them, we're still signaling that we don't need you and stay where you are. Fourthly, I would like to point out that we need to develop e-services, for example, by extending the possibilities of mobile ID. We just remember the problem with the ID card. I stayed out of it because I use mobile ID, and I trust this system. I also trust the Estonian ID-card system. Why this coalition doesn't trust me, it doesn't make sense to me. I urge you not to go along with foolishness, but to find solutions to make elections more credible and mobile, so that all our people are involved and feel that their voice has weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U112	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U113	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Neither do we support this bill. But before all the middle parties start screaming that you're with the Reform Party, I say we have absolutely different reasons. Unlike Külliik's Hatter, we absolutely don't trust e-elections. Well, I just don't! It's not a controlled system. But what is being done with this bill is not distrusting the system, but it is simply pointless snooping with dates that do not change anything. This does not make the e-election system safer. A hole that exists from the moment the voices on the server are picked up on the stick and that hole is not going to disappear. That hole won't go away! The information coming from that server to the CEC is uncontrollable. No one knows. We must trust one person who walks around Estonia with a stick on the election night. Thank you. I don't! I want to count the votes on the night of the election. And I don't know which image of Estonia's e-governance or great celebrity we're talking about. I can't imagine that there is no other country in the world so uncontrolled and untrustworthy as to practise the electoral system. I wonder if all the other countries are so stupid that they don't understand, and we're so smart that we understand? But this bill is not a motion of mistrust to the Estonian e-election system. It's just playing with dates so the Centre Party can pretend that they've done something about this ten-year-long joor, that e-elections are a dubious system. It is suspicious, only today, unfortunately, you will not do anything to make it a little more credible and credible. There is no point in this bill; there is no point in supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U114	Erki Savisaar states, which is why the Group of the Estonian Centre Party supports or does not support this bill. We're about to hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really understand if we've read one bill or if we've got some different versions in front of us. Having been in the process of drafting this draft, and having read it now, I am sure that it is a very innovative draft. We are giving a great deal of opportunities, guaranteed by the new technical solutions that are based on the e-vote capabilities that we already have. Indeed, under this draft, an electronic electoral list will be set up in the future, and the paper electoral list will be removed. This electronic electoral list allows all people to vote at any election point in their electoral area, precisely at the polling point, because there are no more polling stations according to this draft. If we attach importance to mobility, these polls can be mobile. An election point can be made, for example, a bus that travels from a village to a village in rural areas, in some villages every day. It gives a lot of mobility. When we talk about security, security as such cannot be written into the law. There must be a different approach here. We are, of course, dealing with the issue of security. I think that security and reliability are the most important thing in the elections, and we have ideas on how to make the system more transparent and reliable. These are long processes, but one solution would be the creation of another electronic voting district, along the lines of what is currently working. It would be the case that the votes given are counted in two departments at the same time. If there are no problems, the results will be the same. This will increase the credibility of a great deal. We're working on this opportunity. And there's a lot of ideas. I certainly cannot accept the argument that this draft somehow weakens the image of our e-state or undermines the credibility of the e-vote. However, when I think about why the electronic vote has been given twice as long as the paper vote, I honestly do not understand it. Do you really think computer users won't be able to track down a computer within a week that they need two weeks? I'm a computer user, I'm a computer teacher, and I'm telling you, no problem. If I'm a computer person, I can use the computer every day, no matter where I am, whether I'm in Estonia or abroad, I have a mobile Internet connection or something different. Making a few clicks in a week is not a problem, it doesn't take two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U116	Kalvi Tough, Social Democratic Party faction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U117	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Under no circumstances does the Social Democratic Party Group question the credibility of e-elections. Instead, we want and are trying to make the opportunities that e-elections make our lives easier even wider. According to this draft, an electronic electoral register will be created, giving a wider opportunity to use e-solutions on election day. Of course, we agree with the Külliki Hatter's idea of extending the use of mobile ID as well, but as we know, it takes time to test all possible new systems. I hope that there will be a time when this hall will decide to approve the use of mobile ID in elections. Another important principle that our group has: all people must be able to choose in a way that suits themselves. I was left to scratch Hanno Pevkur's explanation of why they want to vote at home for so long: that those who want to vote at home will be reduced. In our opinion, that is not the case. If people want to vote at home for various reasons, we must give it an opportunity. And the third thing. So far, the election period has meant a few weeks of rally. People have understood when they can vote in what way. If both the e-vote and the ordinary vote can be chosen within a week, we believe that this will make the electoral system clearer and better. So the Social Democratic Party will definitely support this bill. In our opinion, this is not a small change in the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U118	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 400 on the draft. Let us prepare the vote as order and duty. Honourable Riigikogu, since this bill requires a majority of the Riigikogu membership to be adopted, we will do a verification of the presence. 89 delegates were registered as present. Mr. Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U119	I've asked you a couple of times, but since we're talking about individual words today, then... I mean, you said one sentence that I couldn't understand. You said that as a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is needed, please we will do a verification of the presence. What's the connection? Why do we do the presence check because we need a majority of the membership vote? What does these two have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U120	They're directly related, Igor. Now you're talking about sin! [[Laughter in the hall. Let's hear it.]] According to our rules, there are laws that require a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted. It's one of them, Igor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U121	What does this have to do with checking in? The majority is when there is none in this Chamber. I mean, why do I have to register this presence? I'm glad I stopped by right now, but I couldn't have... [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U122	Let's not get into a very long discussion! It's possible you weren't satisfied with the word 'cause'. But that was my sentence that actually came from our set of rules. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U123	We had an argument here before Igor's question, or make sure that almost a wager on the subject that if 50 parliamentarians had been registered as present, would you not have put the draft to the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U124	These things are not related to each other in the sense that I would have put the draft to the vote in any case. Igor Gräzin, for example, can always come by, as he just said, and then we would have 51 people. Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U125	Thank you. I didn't get a chance to take the question down, it was about the same thing. The young members of the Riigikogu, Valdo and Igor, do not know that it is actually good practice to ask this question, but I would like to clarify whether voting will take place if we are less present. Or is there a way to cancel the vote? But obviously this practical consideration has not been taken into account in the drafting of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U126	What matters is how much is present at the moment of the vote. You and I have been in this hall for more than a few years, and we know that it is often the case that people are present, but they do not register for attendance. Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U127	Thank you. In this composition, we are discussing this for the fourth time. Why don't we do the training for the Reform Party Group, it'll cost less?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U128	Let us take this proposal into account. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U129	I think Stalnukhin is confusing things. Since he's already been here four members, maybe he's been discussing it the last few times. But my question is: why are we doing this presence check at all just before the vote if nothing depends on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U130	Mr Randpere! You know there are certain rules in the work of the Riigikogu. There is also a question in this Chamber about what we are doing here in the first place. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But in the current context, I say that we are now going to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law on the election of the European Parliament and the amendment of other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica. Please take a stand and vote. 52 delegates voted in favour of the draft, 39 against and no abstentions. The draft law amending the Act on the election of the European Parliament and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U131	Third reading of draft law amending the Structural Support Act and other laws (creating a single application service) for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Let us prepare this vote. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? Thank you very much. I am voting on the draft law amending the Constitutional Support Act and other laws (creating a single implementation service) for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. 628. Please take a stand and vote. 77 votes in favour, 8 against, no abstentions. Draft Act 628 on the amendment of the Structural Support Act and other laws (creating a single implementation service) initiated by the Government of the Republic for the period 2014 to 2020 has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U132	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to negotiate? Please, Monika Haukanõm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I spoke on the same subject right here on the speaker's desk exactly a week ago. I do not have anything new to say that I would not have said last week, but I do want to recall the reason why we should not adopt this law today. What has taken place during the procedure for this draft is not useful for Estonia, because the Board of Health Insurance is a vital body. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund is 1/10 of the budget of the Estonian state, amounting to over 1 billion euros. After last week's speech, I was accused of somehow hurting the Fatherland, or formerly called the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Instead, they wanted to increase the power and powers of the Riigikogu in the Council, i.e. increase the membership of the Council from seven to eight, giving one additional seat to the Social Affairs Committee, but unfortunately it did not come out. As always, it got worse. Instead of seven members, we now have six members in the Council. Of course, the Riigikogu and the opposition are outside. Who will benefit? I don't know. But it is not good for Estonia's democracy, so-called common sense, balanced decisions. What happened in the last few weeks is, you can say, even the highest class of political technology, and you can't stand by and watch it happen. Healthcare is not an area in which we should tolerate politicianism, or dark agreements, and blackmail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U134	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The essence of this draft is correct and we support it. The 15-member Health Insurance Board, made up of representatives of a large number of interest groups, is neither judgmental nor objective enough. But we are not enthusiastic about this bill, because what has happened here since then has been expelled from the council by the Riigikogu and the representative of the opposition has been ugly. So our group has no obligation to vote in favour of this, although we ourselves have proposed it: the previous government has initiated this change. It is just very strange that a brake is being pulled at 12 hours, a representative is being shoved into the Council, and if it looks ugly, a representative of the opposition will simply be expelled. In fact, the whole war on all kinds of council membership has been unfair. It depreciates and marginalizes the Riigikogu. If such a large part of the state budget is distributed so strongly in one area of social policy, without any opportunity for the opposition and the Riigikogu to have a say, it simply does not work. So we will vote each one according to our own sense of feeling that we are not enthusiastic about the draft, but we will support the reduction in the Council's membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U136	Henn Põllaas as representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia faction. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U137	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, For exactly the same reasons as the previous speakers have pointed out, we cannot support this draft. How can it be said that openness will increase when the representative of the opposition of the Riigikogu is actually cut out of the decision-making process? On the contrary, openness and honesty in this case can only be reduced and more frequent, namely targeted decisions, decisions taken in a narrow circle, decisions taken in a backroom. This goes contrary to the principles and objectives of democratic processes that we should all bear in mind here. Without wasting any further words, I call on you to oppose the Riigikogu being a rubber stamp in which we have heard accusations here several times in recent weeks. I call on you to act honestly, transparently, democraticly and not to let the open society we are striving for beset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U138	On the proposal of the Governing Commission, I call on you to make the final vote on this draft. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? Thank you! I vote on the draft Act amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Health Insurance Act 602 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 49 MPs voted in favour, 25 against, 5 abstentions. The draft Act amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U139	The third reading of the draft law amending the Trade Unions Act and the Law on collective labour dispute resolution initiated by the Social Committee. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Is the hall ready to vote? Thank you. I am voting on the draft law amending the Trade Unions Act and the Law on collective labour dispute resolution, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, 604. Please take a stand and vote. The draft was supported by 68 delegates, against 1, with 4 abstentions. Draft Act 604 amending the Trade Unions Act and the Law on collective labour dispute resolution initiated by the Social Committee has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U140	Third reading of draft Act amending the Road Transport Act initiated by the Economic Commission 621. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I hope you'll agree that I won't give you two minutes to prepare. I am voting on the draft law amending the Road Transport Act initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs 621. Please take a stand and vote. 64 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, nine against, no abstentions. The draft law amending the Road Transport Act initiated by the Economic Commission has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U141	Third reading of Bill 615 of the Arms Act, Strategic Goods Act, Explosives Act and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Hannes Hanso.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U142	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Haukanõm came here before you and said that he spoke about the same thing in the same remote a week ago. I feel the same way a little bit before the vote on this bill. However, I came here because I would like to say a few words again before the vote on the importance of the defence industry as a sector. I want to remind you of that. This is an area which, I would say, is almost systematically and consistently developed in spite of this legislative framework. We have over 110 companies active in the defence industry. I also mention those sectors where work is carried out: electronic warfare, energy solutions, personal equipment, cyber defence, shipbuilding, laser systems, military medicine, military vehicles, observation systems, border protection systems, pioneer solutions, weapons, ammunition, robotics, communication systems, training tools, simulators, various support systems, services, etc. This is an area where very high added value can be achieved. It's not like you saw a tree, put a log on a ship and take China. This is an area where known-hows, brains and where the employment component are also quite significant. At present, around 1100 people work in the defence industry. I very much hope that, if we can adopt this law in this Chamber today and hopefully it will already enter into force on 1 July, in a few years' time, it may be noted in this very remote area that this figure has increased several times. The desire for investment in this area is very much and the potential in this respect is extremely high. What is important is the export component. One thing is employment and the other is how much we can get our smart solutions out of the country, so that the export segment grows most quickly and we find increasingly exciting markets for our products. I am also thinking of markets that are far from Europe and beyond, also North America, with our traditional partners. This is an area with much more global reach than in other sectors. And it is also very important that the more we have our own defence industry, the safer we will feel in times of crisis. It's a good thing we have the ammo on the ground and all that stuff. Private companies may also be able to produce what needs to be done on short notice. And the safer we all feel. New technologies will be introduced in the Defence Forces, weapons systems will be much more modern and their maintenance will also be important so that they can be used during the prescribed life cycle. This is extremely important. And our companies must have a chance. If we adopt this law, it is possible to offer these services here in Estonia. In order to maintain the infantry combat vehicles that we buy almost a hundred pieces, they no longer need to be delivered to expensive care abroad, but our own companies can do so. I hope that, as we in the Commission have found a great consensus on this issue, we will also find it in this Chamber. Our group will certainly support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U143	I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 615. It's in about a minute. I am voting on the draft law amending the arms law, the strategic goods law, the explosives law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 615. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the population voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 615 has been passed as a law, and as you have heard, it will enter into force in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U144	The third reading of § 102 of the Traffic Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, Act 635 on Supplementation to Traffic Act. I'm opening negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I vote on the draft Act on Supplementing § 102 of the Traffic Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 635. Please take a stand and vote. No one voted against the bill, 76 people in favour. Bill 635 of § 102 of the Traffic Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U145	Draft law amending the Estonian Flag Act initiated by the Constitutional Commission 599 third reading. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Estonian Flag Act, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 599. Please take a stand and vote. 74 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against, nor were there any abstentions. The draft Act amending the Estonian Flag Act initiated by the Constitutional Commission has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U146	Third reading of the draft law supplementing the law of the Chancellor of Justice initiated by the Constitutional Commission 609. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Monika Haukanõm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! If there is a remote control at third reading, there are two reasons for this: either to express support for the draft and to say why we should definitely vote in favour of it, or to start slandering it. I am very pleased that I do not have to deal with defamation this time, but instead I would like to applaud the amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which gives the Chancellor of Justice two additional tasks. Why did I come here today to talk about this? There's a very simple reason. Indeed, already in March 2012, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was ratified here in the large hall of the Riigikogu. It was six years ago and after six years there has been a dance around the steam boiler. Infinite studies have been carried out, analyses have been carried out, plans have been drawn up, even draft laws have been developed to finally legitimise the obligation of the State under Article 33 of the Convention to find the authority that will monitor the implementation of the principles set out in the Convention. Within this framework, it is also crucial that the authority that will be involved in the monitoring of the Convention responds to the Paris principles. This so-called 'tenth task' is precisely so that the Office of the Chancellor of Justice can move forward with a view to responding to the Paris principles. Both of these additional tasks are excellent and also very strong support for each other. The Convention, of course, obliges the country to involve people with disabilities and their representative organisations in the monitoring process. However, in order to participate effectively in the monitoring process of the Convention, these disabled people and organisations, in addition to legislative changes, also need to be substantially enhanced, for example through supervision training, so that they can do all this. This is an excellent opportunity to get a balanced view of how the Estonian state carries out the tasks undertaken by the international convention and to provide information to the public and international organisations about the situation of people with disabilities in Estonia. The draft that I hope will be adopted today is long awaited, and I am really pleased that an independent monitoring mechanism for the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities will be set up at the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. It's the best choice. It's been the best choice since the first moment. All the more so since the first part of the amendment will also give the institution of the Chancellor of Justice a boost, which will finally lead us to have an institution in line with the principles of Paris in Estonia. At the same time, I would like to put the Chancellor of Justice to heart that they also follow Article 33 (3) in their work, involving people with disabilities from the beginning of the monitoring process. I wish the Chancellor of Justice and his entire department all the power and shine in the eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U148	There are no further requests to speak. On the proposal of the Governing Commission, I will pass the final vote on this bill and, if you continue to agree to work at an early pace, in half a minute. I am voting on the draft law supplementing the law of the Chancellor of Justice, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 609. Please take a stand and vote. 65 delegates voted in favour of the draft, 7 against and 2 abstentions. The draft law supplementing the law of the Chancellor of Justice initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U149	Third reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 617. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U150	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to be really brief. There's no long story. The Conservative People's Party will, of course, vote against this draft and there are several reasons for it. Firstly, we cannot agree in any way to another relaxation of immigration that this draft deals with. We cannot accept that all persons who earn the "higher-skilled" salary go out of the immigration quota, because according to the draft, any person who has an income of at least two average monthly salaries each month automatically qualifies as a top specialist. It is not necessarily a top specialist yet, and such a very fundamental decision, which must facilitate the introduction of labour, is in no way in line with our values, our principles. The second point that we cannot agree with is the extension of short-term working time. Another ten years ago, it was six months. In the meantime, the pressure was to extend it, and now it is nine months, but the bill says it will extend the year to 12 months. So, from where does short-term work become long-term work? Of course, it is never all bad and black, but some of the amendments that came for second reading are even worse. One member of the Social Democratic Party Group proposed extending the period of short-term employment to two years and excluding all these persons from the immigration quota. I guess there's a personal interest here. The representatives of the Reform Party in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, however, proposed abolishing the immigration quota altogether. They represented this position very strongly. Unfortunately, there are no members of any other party on our committee who would have tried a little bit to be in the same boat with us and to protect the Estonian labour market, Estonian workers and Estonian wage growth. It is no secret that these people, every year 5000.7000 people who enter Estonia as a labour force from former Soviet republics, are ruining our labour market, trapping our wage growth and in no way encouraging the return of Estonians to Estonia in order to alleviate our labour problem. It is therefore very sad to see that the Conservative People's Party is probably the only one voting against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U151	Jaanus Marrand on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have come here otherwise, but the previous speaker's speech still made it happen. According to the ABC of economics, his conclusion that the arrival of additional labour in Estonia is holding back wages is absolutely wrong. In reality, the exact opposite is true. This kind of thinking, as demonstrated here by the previous speaker, follows from the view that, in a market economy, entrepreneurs are some bad monsters who have money in the basement, but they do not want to pay people's wages. It's a Bolshevik way of thinking. In fact, the main obstacles to entrepreneurship, economic development, are labour shortages. After all, on the other hand, we have the full potential of the economy to grow; it needs to be exploited. If we do not have people who do this job, this potential will be missed. If we look at the productivity of the Estonian economy, we can see that it represents 63% of the European Union average, for example 50% compared to Germany. Investment in innovation and new technologies is needed to increase productivity. However, in order to invest in innovation and new technologies, businesses need to make money on the market. The same economic potential needs to be exploited to make money. If the workforce does not continue, this will lead to a significant increase in labour prices, i.e. wage growth. Wage growth is, of course, an extremely positive phenomenon in itself; the only problem is that if there is not enough labour, it will lead to wage increases that are higher than productivity growth, and the money needed for innovation and investment will not be earned. In this way, the development of companies will stop, productivity will not increase and, in the medium term, wage growth will also be stuck. Wages cannot grow as productivity does not increase and the money needed for wage growth cannot be earned in the market. Low wage growth leads to people leaving and labour shortages are aggravating. And there's a full circle. Anyway, a normal-thinking and planning country is trying to break this circle. In its regulations, it is necessary to strive for this kind of retardation to be removed from the development of entrepreneurship. It should be business and the entire economy of ABC. Today, economic growth is quite felt in Estonia and it is very natural that companies must be able to exploit their growth potential and, with investment, reach a new level of development where labour is already less needed. Yes, in the economy of Estonia and the world as a whole, we need much less labour in the future, but more education and new skills. Unfortunately, Estonia's entrepreneurship is from its digitalisation at the back of the European Union, the eighth from the back. So there are still long steps to take. There is a need to make money for development, and that is why we need to allow additional labour. The country is so mature that it can control the labour market, inter alia by introducing longer working visas. Accurate regulations can also ensure that, at the end of the working visa deadlines, people return to their home country. The regulations must also ensure that we do not simply remain here as a user of the Estonian social system. The Estonian social work system is not such that it is so tempting that it is wanted to remain here at all. The most important thing is that we are able to face the problems that have arisen, not to pursue ostrich politics, hiding behind the encouragement of national emotional attitudes. A better and more secure path is the precise laws and other regulations for admission to the labour force, for the departure of people and for punishment for the violation of the law. The fact that we don't need anyone or anything is bad. This is the safest way to freeze wage growth and freeze Estonia's economic development. We know that using temporary agency workers from other countries of the European Union, such as Poland, can bring people here who can be paid a small salary instead. In this way, we will also lose taxes that could be collected into the state budget of Estonia. It makes more sense not to impose restrictions on non-life, to collect as much foreign labour taxes as possible for Estonia, which could be received by us, and thus to ensure much more control over the workforce that arrived here. In any case, the interest in temporary agency workers also disappears or at least decreases in precisely fixed rules. The Estonian state budget will also receive additional money and economic growth will increase. Today's bill is in any case a step forward, but it is a partial solution. I'm sure we'll have to come back to work visas soon. The questions remain as to whether the immigration limit, which is not the case in any other European country, makes sense at all. This is a question that also arose during the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Several other time and wage restrictions remain a question. If we look at the current composition of the Riigikogu, we will see that the number of people who are in favour of regulating the admission of a normal labour force is greater in the Chamber than there are different concepts. It is simply the coalition's position today that there is no point in creating disagreements, and then let us accept a partial solution. That, too, is in any case a step forward. I am sure, however, that they will come back to these issues. If not this autumn, then definitely in the next Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U153	There are no further requests to speak. The final vote will take place in half a minute. I am voting on the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it 617. Please take a stand and vote. The draft was supported by 54 MPs, with 7 abstentions. The draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U154	The third reading of the draft law amending the radiation law, the general part of the environmental code and the law amending the law on health and safety at work initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. On the proposal of the Governing Commission, we will hold a final vote. I am voting on draft law amending the radiation law initiated by the Government of the Republic, the general part of the environmental code and the law amending the law on health and safety at work 623. Please take a stand and vote. There were 57 delegates in favour of the draft law, 5 against and no abstentions. Bill 623 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U155	The third reading of the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Republic, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to negotiate? It's not there. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 624. Please take a stand and vote. The draft law was supported by 58 members of the Riigikogu, 4 votes against and no abstentions. Bill 624 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U156	Third reading of the draft law amending the Hunting Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Committee on the Environment 633. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to negotiate? That's not what you want. On the proposal of the Governing Commission, we will hold a final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Hunting Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act, initiated by the Committee on the Environment, 633. Please take a stand and vote. The draft was voted for by 50 delegates, 2 against, 3 abstentions. Bill 633 has become a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U157	Next item: Review of the 2017 report on the Civil Service. Please present a speech chair to Minister of State Administration Janek Mägg.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to give an overview of the public service report and developments and of the most important human resources indicators last year. 2017 can be considered to be a busy year in the public service as well as in the general government sector as a whole. Throughout the year, decommissioning of rural governments was prepared and an administrative reform was carried out. In the second half of the year, we successfully carried out the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In addition, there have been a number of smaller and larger reorganisations in different public authorities and preparations for future restructuring. The report of the public service for 2017 is not limited to a mere review of developments in the public service. In order to give you a broader picture of what is happening in the country, we have taken over the entire government sector for a number of indicators. For the sake of clarity, I will also mention which institutions we mean by government and how the government sector is divided. The general government covers the part of the public sector where its daily activities are mainly carried out by people working for the money allocated from the state budget. It is divided into central government, local government and social security funds, i.e. the unemployment fund and the sickness fund. The central government also includes constitutional institutions, including the Riigikogu, state schools, state hospitals and cultural institutions established by the state in the form of a foundation. As part of the central government, some state companies, such as Riigi Kinnisvara AS, AS Hoolekandeteenused and Estonian Liner trains or Elron, are also part of the central government. The public service only covers the public authorities, from the perspective of the whole country and the local government. Approximately one third of the public service staff of the public authorities are special servants of the police, rescuers, prison officers and defence forces, with a total of 9923 people in 2017. The ministries employed 2592 people last year, the largest local government authorities were the city governments of Tallinn, Tartu, Narva and Pärnu. There were 1383 people working in Tallinn, 330 in Tartu, 232 in Narva and 173 in Pärnu. The general government as a whole did not decrease significantly in 2017. The average number of employees in the general government in 2017 was 116703, which is 80 people less than a year earlier. The reduction compared to the previous year was due to the recruitment of 124 additional employees to the unemployment fund in connection with the work capacity reform and the increase in staff of the two largest hospitals in Estonia, the North Estonian Regional Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital by 37 and 108 persons respectively. It should also be borne in mind that the average figures for 2017 do not yet reflect the impact of the administrative reform and the closure of rural governments. However, if we look at the public service numbers as of 1 January 2018, we will see that, in many ways, these reorganisations have led to a significant reduction in the number of employees in the public service. As of 1 January 2018, the number of civil servants was 1123 fewer than on 1 January 2017. As a result of the closure of rural governments, 195 civil servants lost their jobs and 425 civil servants had lost their jobs as of 1 January 2018. The impact of the closure of rural governments and administrative reform in the government sector is also reflected in the average number of employees in 2018, which we will announce to the new Riigikogu at the same time next year. Given that the working-age population of Estonia will also decline in the coming years, both the Estonian government and other actors in the government sector must make efforts to restructure their work in order to keep Estonia in an indicative situation where the share of the government sector in the working-age population is 12%. The general government wage increase was of the same order of magnitude as the total labour market wage increase in 2017, i.e. 6.5%. The general government wage increase has been achieved mainly by using the internal resources of institutions: by reducing the number of employees and reorganising work. The general decision to increase the entire state budget payroll was not taken in 2017. At the same time, the impact of additional wage resources allocated to public employees treated as individual target groups on general government wage increases cannot be underestimated as the number of employees in these target groups is high. By 2017, additional money was allocated to staff in the field of internal security and social welfare, as well as to cultural workers and teachers for the 3% increase in the payroll fund. Health care workers also received extra money. The average wage of the general government was 1233 euros last year, which is 12 euros more than the average wage of the Estonian labour market as a whole last year. Inside the sector, wages were higher than average at central government level and in social security funds and lower than average in local government units. The wage formation of the public service follows the wage changes in the Estonian labour market. In order to be able to recruit a sufficiently skilled workforce capable of providing a high-quality public service to the public population and to work at a higher intensity than so far, it is necessary to ensure that public service wages do not fall significantly behind the wages offered in sectors competing on the labour market. The issue of the gender pay gap has also been addressed in more detail in this public service annual report. In public institutions, the overall gender pay gap is 9.4%, which is more than half that of the Estonian labour market as a whole. The report also gives a more comprehensive overview of the horizontal pay gap in public authorities by working group. As the remuneration policy of public authorities is decentralised, this review is undoubtedly a good background for the heads of institutions. For the country to function successfully, it is important that public work has sufficiently well-prepared and experienced reliable and dedicated staff. This requires, on the one hand, successful recruitment of new people and, on the other hand, ensuring that staff turnover does not become excessive. The total turnover of staff in the public service and administration of public authorities was 15.3% and voluntary turnover was 7%. Both figures have slightly increased compared to 2016. The total staff turnover was the highest in the local government authorities last year, i.e. in the area of administrative reform, at 21%. In public institutions, the voluntary turnover of the staff of national IT institutions increased significantly last year, due to increased competition with the private market and wage pressures. Increasing turnover also increases the need to recruit new people. In 2017, the increase in... Time's up?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U159	The presentation shall be for 10 minutes, but it shall be possible to extend the period in agreement with the President. I'm ready to negotiate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U160	I'm gonna skip a paragraph and...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U161	I'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U162	Okay, I'll take it from here. 89.2% of Estonians and 10.8% of other national workers are in public service. The largest number of employees from other nationalities are in internal security agencies, and many of them have been in public service for more than 15 years. Several important reform processes continued in 2017. In addition to administrative reform and preparation for the winding-up of rural governments, preparations for the transition to operational budgets, mapping of direct public services, preparation of the state buildings project, removal of state-paid jobs from the capital, consolidation of support services continued. It took a lot of time and resources to organise the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which at the same time gave many public employees a good opportunity to participate in diverse development and training activities and to gain experience in carrying out various events. In conclusion, I would say that the country and the public sector were doing well last year, and this was in good harmony with what took place in the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U163	I'm opening a round of questions. Let me remind you that every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask one oral question and after negotiations, representatives of the political groups can take the floor. We will not take a decision at the end of the debate. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this review. You didn't have much time for the presentation, and that's why I'm asking about the foundations set up by the central government of the country. Have you also been able to analyse and assess how the obligations imposed on them by foundations established by the state are met and what their participation in all public administration is at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U165	Thank you very much. A short and concise answer would be that public foundations function well. A more detailed overview can be obtained by reading the report itself. It's pretty thick, 62 pages. But I think that this activity is quite well balanced with what is happening throughout the public sector. And I thought it was a good thing last year that we smoothed out some pay differences in the sectors where it has been a bottleneck. Some of the wages came for the others. So I think the capacity of these foundations is actually pretty good. That would be a summary assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U166	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U167	Thank you. Fortunately, there is no time limit for your reply, so I will ask you several questions. Firstly, are you analysing whether wages are proportionate to the services provided? Sometimes it seems that the salary number is too high The second question concerns Ida-Viru County. We have repeatedly discussed wage increases in this Chamber in order to fill the positions of constitutional institutions, such as judges. Have you also analysed, by county, whether or not the wage balance of police and border guards is affected by this wage increase? How stable are these posts? That's what I'm done with right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U168	Thank you. Luckily, I had time to write it down. First of all, are wages in proportion to services, can we get a sufficient service in the public sector for the money we spend? That's how I understand the question. I think the answer to the vast majority is yes. At the same time, there are quite a number of places where the country is doing too much work. To give a very concrete example, too much work is being done, in my opinion, when it comes to requesting and managing certain documents. For example, why does a person have to register a birth certificate somewhere separate? Why can't it be that when I'm born somewhere, I'm basically already registered. That's one side of the question. The other side is, do we do all the things we should do? It is certainly possible to improve the service. The problem, of course, is also that, especially when we look at the activities of local authorities, there is still considerable disunity. This has been demonstrated by my county visits, which have so far been four. In some counties you can at least give me this impression of more service and part of a little less. And in some places, a completely different service is needed. When we visited Põlvamaa yesterday, we had the idea that maybe we should have something like the one in the United States: there are different laws in different states. Perhaps we should also have one chance in Põlva County and another in Ida-Viru County. This could be decided by local self-governings. The second question was about Ida-Viru County, if I remember correctly, whether there are enough wages differentiated and, if so, whether it works. I think it's working. If there is a higher salary in those regions where we would like more people to live, it will certainly have a very positive effect. It is, of course, a question of stability. The credibility of the state, I fear, is not so great on very many occasions, because there are too many changes and just such changes, where people feel that something has got worse for them. If something gets better, everyone will always agree to it, but if something gets worse, they don't really want to accept it. We need to increase the credibility of the country by ensuring consistency of our speech. When people make plans in their lives for 10 to 20 years, they must be able to believe that the word of the state holds.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U169	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U170	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The army of officials is impressive: 116703 people. Their number decreased by only 0.5% last year, while the working age population decreased by 0.6%. My question is: who were the unfortunate 80 government officials who had to lose their jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U171	Thank you. In fact, if you look at the public service, this decrease was considerably higher: it was 1123 people. But somewhere people went away, somewhere more came up. The places where people came in were then the University of Tartu Hospital, where 108 more people came in, 74 more people in the Ministry of Education and Research, and 63 more people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The figure 80 shows only the balance, not the actual decrease. There are institutions where we want more service. The state needs more services in many places. The public asks why the state doesn't do it, why it doesn't do it. We need a little reprofiling, and this process actually took place last year. I think the country became much more efficient last year. As far as 0.5% and 0.6% are concerned, significant savings will still come from the administrative reform. I've already read those numbers. But what kind of picture is in real life, it's already in the next year's report.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U172	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I am interested in the change that has taken place last year in the area of public service activities for people with disabilities. I would point out that in 2017, or last year, a fully operational capacity reform was launched, the plan of which was set up in 2014 with a goodwill agreement that 1000 disabled people will be employed at central government level, i.e. in ministries for five years, i.e. 200 persons per year. How's that? What changes have taken place? Are you aware? As a further remark, last year, Jaak Aab did not know how to answer that question, but he promised to investigate in the ministry. Unfortunately, there was no result. Maybe the Ministry has been investigating something.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U174	Thank you. I know that this process is taking place in the direction that had been agreed. But I'm going to add that every time a numerical target is set, it depends very much on the environment and other additional factors. However, several more jobs have emerged today, and I hope to send this reply in writing within a week.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U175	Enn Meri.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U176	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Minister, you are also responsible for moving public jobs across Estonia. One part of it is your business. I will now come to Saaremaa and see what has happened. The county government has moved away, of course, this is the right thing to do, but there have also been no jobs at the Police and Border Guard Board. I don't think anything's come up. I ask you: would it not be possible for maritime and maritime authorities, such as TS Ships and the Maritime Administration, to move to Saaremaa? What do they have to do in Tallinn? Have you considered such a thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U177	Thank you. I'm gonna start with the Maritime Administration, and I'm gonna say the giants want to lure it in. I told you if you could do it, I would. If there's competition between the giants and the islanders, I don't know which one to choose, it's gonna be hard. As far as TS Ships are concerned, the fact that it is a stock exchange company may be an obstacle and the agreement of such processes may be more complicated. Although, when I went to Saaremaa last week, it was said that they could really move there. I think, however, that perhaps even in the case of this topic of move, there is a bit of a wrong emphasis. The emphasis has been on moving people somewhere God knows where, even if this place is Saaremaa, which is very nice and lovely. Actually, we're talking about jobs. I have given this example many times, but I would like to say once again that in Sweden jobs were created outside the capital and only 25% of people moved with them. That's the goal. It is easier to find work in Tallinn. If you don't want to move away from Tallinn, you can always find another job. If you want to move, go. For example, I would be happy to move to Valgamaa right away if someone offered me a job that suits me. I think it's better to live in South Estonia. I have a father farm there, too, so I wouldn't have much effort to do that. With regard to the subject of marginalisations, and the workplaces are directly related to it, yesterday in Põlva, men and ladies made it clear to me that not only do I think they have a much better life than the stables, but they also think they have a much better life than we have here in Tallinn. They pointed out at least ten reasons why it is relatively poor to live in Tallinn, for example, from how long you have to drive to work every day. So, in my opinion, we need to take this as a completely positive programme. Who is tired of Tallinn, move away and make a job such as Valka, which is a very nice place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U178	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Your previous predecessor, Mr Aas, once he became a minister, said that once the administrative reform has been completed, he will leave and put out the fire, this position of minister is no longer necessary. You've been on duty for a month and a half now, and you've had time to think about whether to go to Valgamaa or to continue. My question is this: have these double ministers really been useful to Estonia, or will it only create additional confusion, blurring of the limits of responsibility and simply the cost of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U180	Thank you. Arto Aas left and turned off the fire, even though the administrative reform was still in progress. Just a change of government. But my understanding is that, of course, I rely on the analysis of the Ministry of Finance, on the work done by officials and on the materials that have been read, but also on my own conscience, that not only these double ministries should be abolished, but also the ministries. I'd go down the silo road. That's the way it is in Sweden. This does not mean that the government should remain smaller. The number of members of this government who then run the agencies could be 15, for example, but a positive change would be that there would be no need for three, four, fifteen legal departments, human resources, IT departments. There's only one department, and all these people could fit into that super department house. There would be no question. If we analyze the workflow, then in our house, or the Ministry of Finance, I think the job assignments are pretty well shared. This is the kind of work that politicians have agreed on before, and I have never felt bored. Unfortunately, I have come across the most unpleasant topics that have recently been raised in the Estonian public space. I'm not gonna count them, but they're gonna start at the pulp mill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U181	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U182	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The question concerns applications received by public authorities in competitions. The number of these statements is in severe decline. This concerns, among other things, state schools. Your report says that interest in these jobs has decreased. What is the reason for this? Is this because there is insufficient uncompetitive pay or because there is simply no quality labour? What's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U183	Thank you. My gut tells me that the public sector's wage level is adequate. I'm not saying this salary is good, but I'm not saying it's bad either. This takes account of what is happening on the Estonian labour market within large limits. We have some sectors of the economy with a boom. Examples include the real estate sector in Tallinn and Tartu. All of this, of course, also applies to all other areas, but it is a very large sector, where the volume of investment is very high and where very many people can work outside the sector too. But why has the popularity of these competitions fallen? I think demographic processes are at stake. We are well aware of the mantras we keep repeating: we are an ageing nation and so on. I don't think that's quite true. We're a shrinking nation, it's true, but we're not that old yet. I have just studied the world's demographic processes and it was nice to read that in the Nagano region of Japan, the average life expectancy is 97 years for women, 91 years for men. And when you're 80, there's work to be done. So maybe you don't have to worry about that. We should be more concerned about whether we do the right thing, whether we organise the right competitions. Maybe some places don't need to hire so many people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U184	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Minister's overview of the report for the public service in 2017 was meaningful, and the text available to us is full of figures and figures. I would like to stress precisely that this report contains rather good tables, a fairly good overview of how many officials there are at work, how their number has changed, what salaries are, also for women and men individually. So there's really nothing to blame for this report. The overview is correct and provides a large number of figures. However, more conclusions could have been drawn from the latter. I would like to dwell on some things that, apart from my share of the other members of the Free Party Group, are missing in this report. Point 1: In the case of such a very important report, I would like to understand first and foremost what type of country our country is of today. If we look at the materials presented by the Development Monitoring Centre at today's conference, it is clear that the development scenarios proposed to the country are debatable, highly debated. However, in order for one country to be able to define and evaluate itself on this basis, it is precisely in such a report that a state organisation and a state definition should be considered. So, what country are we? We are a democratic country. But are we also moving toward the welfare state? Do we want to move towards a networked country? From here on, the question is: what type of government do we really want? On this basis, we can begin to assess the total number of civil servants and so on. As long as we are not conceptually able to evaluate it, all these reviews will continue to reflect that one trend is this way, the other side. Second: central government and local authorities. However, the report could have included an assessment of the tasks, responsibilities and performances agreed between the central government and local authorities. Local specificities could also have been highlighted. I really love that the Minister, for the second time in his speech, dares to point out that Estonia deserves, in fact, recognition and recognition of local differences in its small size. What else is missing? There is also a lack of wishing for more and more bold overview of the services provided by foundations established by the state. What are the services provided? How do they work? Can we be satisfied with the existing duplication? I would argue that there is quite a lot of duplication in this sector. We haven't gotten to that observation. But the biggest drawback is that the moment of quality of services has never actually been reflected. We have good numbers, we have a good basis, but we should be brave to go ahead with this in our reports and analyses. The problems are fixed in part, some of them are recorded in the same frame, the failure of the competitions and the lack of participation in them, but it is precisely the part of meaning that if there is a problem, if the central government is ready to solve it or really the local government should do so. So there's room for growth up to this analysis of how savings can still be achieved at ministerial level. In this work, we still need to move much further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U186	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Liisa Oviir. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U187	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to highlight one issue when we talk about this annual report, and that is the gender pay gap in public administrations. Here is a very separate chapter, which says that if the overall wage gap in Estonia was 20.9% in 2017, then in the institutions of the state, it was 9.4%, which is then really, as has been said here, halved. But is there any reason to be content with this outcome? Compared to the previous year, the overall gender pay gap has increased by 0.4%. The report points out that, if there is a difference in average wages, this may be due to the different responsibilities or complexity of the positions in which men and women in the institution work. It has also been pointed out that men's share of top and middle management is higher. At the same time, women are more among primary managers, experts and specialists, which means that women are really less in high leadership positions. But why is that? We are taking education of 70% of graduates are women, so there should be more women than men among top executives. So to justify why the pay gap is old and even slightly increased is, in my opinion, wrong. I am very pleased that this year the Ministry of Social Affairs has initiated a draft law on gender equality. The aim is to encourage employers to analyse and monitor the pay gap and its causes in the public sector. It's really, really important. In fact, the current situation, which is characterised by almost 10%, is not one that can be satisfied. The subject needs to be dealt with further. I would, in turn, call for consideration to be given to whether it should not be extended to the private sector, too, to this possibility of supervision, to the possibility of analysing very in depth, which is the cause of the problem. At one point, we will arrive at a well-founded model, a greater equality that will, on the one hand, give women greater rights, greater opportunities, but, on the other hand, will take certain responsibilities away from men. So, in the end, both women and men, or society as a whole, should benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U188	No more requests, I will close the debate. As has already been said, the Riigikogu does not make a decision on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U189	Next item: Second reading of Bill 629 on Supplementing the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech to Mr Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U190	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the debate on the second reading of the draft law supplementing the Citizenship Act in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which took place on 5 June. I'm sure it was quick and decent. The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 30 April. A first-reading debate took place in this Chamber on 15 May and the deadline for tabling amendments was set by the Chamber on 29 May. No amendments were tabled and neither did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs consider it necessary to make any proposals. Mr Pomerants, President of the Commission, opened a debate at the session on the question of the relationship between the two agreements at first reading by Jüri Adams, Member of the Commission. One is a language learning contract concluded with an alien who wishes to acquire citizenship, and the other is a language learning contract concluded with the organising institution, i.e. the Applied Higher Education Centre in the area of administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is the Academy of Internal Defence. Jüri Adams was interested in what this legislative amendment would bring to the organiser of language learning and to the learner. The committee chairman noted that this draft provides clear answers to both agreements. The management contract to be concluded for the organisation of language training shall clearly state the requirements to be met by that contract, the mandatory parts thereof. This will be set out in Section 82 (4) of the Citizenship Act. The obligations relating to a foreign person when participating in language training are reproduced in the future § 83 of the Act. Since these paragraphs clearly set out the obligations of all, any additions would not improve the law. It was thus proposed that this amendment should not be tabled, and Mr Adams agreed. We also had to do, and we made procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for today, that a second reading be carried out and that it be concluded. When the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the third reading be held on 12 September 2018 and then put to the final vote. All these proposals were supported by 6 members of the Commission: Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Lauri Luik, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt and Toomas Paur Tiit Terik as alternate members. Mr Adams abstained on all the proposals. The decision to appoint a rapporteur was consensual, and Jüri Adams was in favour. Helmut Hallemaa, standing before you, was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U191	Please, Krista Aru, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission discuss the existence of language teachers? If it was, how serious? After all, the lack of language teachers has been one of the major obstacles to organising language learning. Did the Commission have time to discuss this too?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U193	This certainly took place during the first-reading debate. The second-reading debate was just as short as I reported. The university of applied sciences in question will probably be able to handle this. Yes, there could be more language teachers and more in schools and kindergartens. So, actually, we have this problem, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U194	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a second reading, everyone has the opportunity to speak. That's not what you want. No amendments to the draft 629 have been proposed. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 629. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U195	Today's last item is the first reading of Draft Act 652 on the Amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The main report is presented by Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U196	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I am pleased to be with you on one of the most important points of today's day, namely the amendment of the law on family benefits and the related amendment of other laws in draft 652. First of all, allow me to thank the honourable Riigikogu for the happy ending of the procedures on the same subject last year, and many parents can already enjoy more flexibility in the use of parental leave and parental benefits. Now for today's bill. It aims to increase parents' chances of reconciling work and family life. To this end, we want to create more options for parental leave and parental benefit systems and encourage a more balanced distribution of the care burden between parents. As has been said, this is a continuation of the draft law adopted last year in the Riigikogu. Let me remind you that at the time, we divided the issue into two blocks, because we have also wanted to make a number of technical changes, which we have negotiated with a very large number of parties, in order to clarify the regulation. These changes could be conditionally divided into eight points, which I will briefly present. Firstly, the conversion of maternity leave into maternity leave. According to the draft, the current 140-day maternity leave will be converted into 100-day maternity leave and will be paid by the mother's parental benefit instead of maternity benefit. The remaining 40 days will be transferred to the parental benefit system. Thus, the parent is still allowed to take care of the toddler until the child reaches the age of 1.5 and to receive parental benefit for this period. The current 140-day employment limit has been created at a time when there was no parental benefit, now it has expired. The changes proposed by the draft will give parents more choice to receive parental benefit and, if they so wish, to work at the same time. Secondly, the parental benefit of parents is withdrawn at the same time and includes differences. The draft provides for the possibility for parents to spend 60 days together on parental leave and receive parental benefit for this period. In this case, the total period of parental benefit is reduced proportionally by the days for which the parents received parental benefit at the same time. A distinction is provided for parents of premature triplets and multiples whose total period of parental benefit is not reduced by more than 30 days if they have taken advantage of the possibility of receiving parental benefit at the same time up to 60 days. Differences are also created for parents whose child is born dead or dies within 30 days of birth. In such a case, both parents will be allowed to recover and take 30 days of parental leave and receive 30 days of parental benefit. The third block of amendments: withdrawal of parental benefit by calendar day. The aim is to provide parents with more opportunities to work alongside the care of a young child or to use the benefit in part over a longer period. As a result, both parents can, for example, work part-time and be at home alternately with the child. Fourthly, a change in the conditions of parental leave. Under the Employment Contract Act, a mother or father, or one parent, is entitled to three working days' paid parental leave each calendar year if he or she has one or two children under the age of 14 and six working days if he or she has at least three children under the age of 14 or at least one child under the age of 3. Holiday pay is currently paid from the minimum wage and is reimbursed to the employer from the state budget. The draft provides for the possibility for both parents to use ten working days, i.e. a total of 20 working days of paid parental leave for each child under the age of 9. That ten days can then be used until the child is 9 years old. Child leave will be paid for 50% of the parental benefit. The parent of a disabled child shall also be entitled to an additional 12 working days of parental leave for the disabled child until the child reaches the age of adulthood. Like the compensation for parental leave, the draft relates the parental benefit of a disabled child to the parental benefit instead of the average salary of the current employee, and this regulation goes into the same system as the regulation on the rest of the holidays. Block five, changing the conditions for adoption leave. The draft also changes the conditions for parental leave and parental benefit of the adopter. If until now only one adopter of a child under the age of 10 had the right to adoptive leave, then the right to adoptive leave and parental benefit of the adopter will now be extended to all adopters, regardless of the age of the child. It is also extended to the parents of the care family. 70 days of adoption leave can be used for 70 days from the date of entry into force of the adoption decision, according to the current law. The draft provides for the use of parental leave within six months of the creation of this right, i.e. adoption or the conclusion of a care contract. If, until now, the adoption leave was reimbursed with temporary incapacity benefit through the Health Insurance Fund, which included a ban on working, the draft provides that the adoption leave will be paid with the parental benefit of the adopter via the Social Insurance Board. The amendment encourages the raising of children without parental care in families instead of care institutions. Block 6: In addition to increasing very important flexibility, the deadlines for going on and returning to different parental leave are extended from 14 to 30 days, except in cases where circumstances do not allow this. Examples include premature childbirth. Block 7: According to the draft, and with changes in all parental leave and benefits at all, the administrative burden on employers will be reduced. In the case of both parental leave and paternity leave, the employer no longer has to apply to the Social Insurance Board for compensation for holiday payments. There is also a reduction in the workload of the health insurance fund, as there is no need to calculate, pay and exchange maternity benefits. All these operations will be carried out by the Social Insurance Board and this means accepting only family benefits, family benefits for a person. So the whole system will be easier for everyone. And the eighth block: the draft also contains provisions on the automation of family allowances. In other words, for the second and subsequent children born to the same parents in the future, family allowances will be paid to the same parent who has received them for the first child. The Social Insurance Institution shall inform both parents thereof and, if they do not reply within 14 days, shall be deemed to be in agreement. Honourable Riigikogu! I have briefly presented you with a large presentation of this large, detailed and technical nuanced draft. I believe you also have questions about this that I am happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U197	The round of questions will be opened by Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U198	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We were also talking about this in the Commission, but perhaps you can now explain this matter in this Chamber. During parental leave, a child with one parent has the opportunity to spend ten days with his or her parent. You explained in the committee that when a child goes to kindergarten or school, he needs it to adapt. If the child has only one parent, he or she is in a much worse position. Realizing this problem and knowing that there are different parents, I am amazed that if all these special cases are in the bill, there is no case if one of the parents is dead or does not take care of their child. Why is such special cases not taken into account in this support?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U199	Thank you for that question. I'm a little embarrassed now. You were talking about parental leave, but you probably meant parental leave, right? We really talked about parental leave in the Commission. Perhaps I should stress here that this draft has, in addition to the fact that we directly offer the opportunity to care for the child, to share the care burden, and also to support parenthood. This is why there are special days reserved for one parent and another. The same subject of parental leave has been a subject of considerable controversy in recent years, even with the fact that the parents have not been able to share these holidays among themselves, and the one who took them out has taken them out in such a way that the other parent has not had a say. In addition, we have raised a number of questions about the family of my children, of yours and of ours. Whether a particular honeycomb is a single, two or, for example, a three-year-old has caused much controversy. The current draft provides for this leave to be reserved for a specific parent. We have also been asked how the state will check whether the parent who takes these holidays is actually with the child. No, the country has not had such a control option so far and has not been able to do so in the future. Should any special cases be considered separately? That is certainly a matter to consider. But when we look at parental leave and parental benefits, there is also a reserved part for the father. The same paternal leave cannot be used by the other party. But I believe that during the procedure for the draft, any special cases will still be examined and the pros and cons considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U200	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your introduction. It's a very beautiful and perfectly good bill. The Estonian Employers' Confederation also participated in discussions about this. These periods of notice are important. The employer needs to know in advance when one or the other parent starts using parental leave, even for a few days, as this new flexible form now allows. Will these periods of notice also satisfy the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, all our employers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U202	Thank you. As I pointed out when I first introduced the draft, we really had a lot of negotiations with representatives of interest groups, including, of course, employers. At first, they offered an even longer notice period, but when we listened to the various parties, we reached the middle of a negotiation that could satisfy all interested parties. But on your question, I think I should emphasise and clarify one more point. When it comes to the fact that a parent will be able to take parental leave or receive parental benefit for a shorter period of time in the future, this does not automatically mean that he or she must accept the employee's wish to be part-time at work in the future. This work organisation can still be made by agreement. It can't be that an employee says I'm going to work two days a week from next month and three days from next week. There is no doubt that employers also have an interest in implementing part-time workers, but this cannot be done at the request of one of the parties. There's gotta be a deal. If, for example, a contract of employment is made for full-time work, the employer must ensure full-time work and other forms of work are possible if the agreement is reached. But right now, yes, the 30 days you asked for it have also been acceptable to employers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U203	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U204	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! A brief question: how to become a registered partner?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U205	As far as I know, the honourable Riigikogu has adopted the law in its own time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U206	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U207	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm asking you to elaborate a little bit. This is a very good initiative as a bill: it will become more flexible for parents and employers will be generally satisfied. Not particularly those who are dissatisfied. But why do we want the law to enter into force only in 1922? Why can't you go any faster? The year 2022 still seems to be behind the mountains.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U208	Thank you. The provisions of the law adopted last year in this Chamber also had different triggers for entry into force, and that is what I said in the Commission: the only negative factor in this draft is that we are obviously unable to enforce it earlier under the current plan. The following year will only be the part that allows the Social Insurance Board to pay benefits automatically to the same parents for children born to the same parents without having to write new applications. This should be the case in a reasonable e-state. But the rest of the changes are really shifting away from time to time, and this is because many of these changes, and it is precisely because of the major changes that remain, at first sight, invisible to man. The most fundamental change is that the maternity leave system is moving into one of the parental leave systems. This is the subject of the most serious discussions between the Health Insurance Fund and social security system managers during the preparation of the draft. In this context, it is necessary to redesign the IT solutions of both agencies. As we know, a new procurement was organised to create a social information system. Right now, they're in line, they're being dealt with. So these dates of entry into force are largely due to the integration and conversion of different systems.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U209	Maris Lauri, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm asking about expenses. According to this draft, some of the costs are not paid by the health insurance fund, so that the health insurance fund becomes more money. Where, though, is the money taken to the Social Insurance Board, who will start spending these expenses instead of the Health Insurance Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U211	This draft has been drafted and changes to the functions of the Health Insurance Fund and the Social Insurance Board have been based on the fundamental principle that the change is cost-neutral. If the sickness insurance fund fails to pay part of the cost, if it no longer pays maternity benefits, the amount allocated to it will be reduced, and the Social Insurance Board will receive more money. These are two cost lines: the sickness insurance funds of parents who raise a child under 3 years of age are no longer allocated to the sickness insurance fund, although these parents are covered by sickness insurance and, secondly, the insurance premium paid for persons with reduced working capacity is no longer paid to the sickness insurance fund. These people are covered by the funds released by the health insurance fund. These amounts will remain in order to fulfil the additional liabilities of the SKA. The explanatory memorandum states that the principle of cost-neutrality is respected. If necessary, these target groups will be changed by ensuring that the sickness fund does not receive less money or vice versa. So cost-neutrality must continue to be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U212	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! If we look at parental leave, the pay for days spent on parental leave will increase, but it is written in the bill that the child leave will be paid for 50% of the parental benefit in the future. Is there a mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U214	No, there's no mistake. That's it. At present, parental leave is paid at a minimum rate of pay, which means that this leave is used relatively little. While reviewing this system, it was considered that costs would not increase, it was thought of how to make the system clearer and simpler and at the same time to increase the level of compensation. Indeed, the calculation of the benefit is based on the same formula as the calculation of parental benefit: half of the average salary received in the year preceding the holidays. At the same time, the floor is that holiday pay cannot go below the minimum wage. The system for calculating different benefits is similar: it is used when it comes to adoption leave, parental leave and parental benefit and days of parental leave. All these benefits will be calculated and paid out by the Social Insurance Board according to the same rules. As I have already said, this no longer goes through the employer, but the Social Insurance Office pays the money directly to the employee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U215	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This is undoubtedly a very detailed draft, which takes into account all changes in society related to well-established families, such as that grandparents are not always available, are honeycombs and single parents, etc. I am not asking about the socio-economic effects of this law, but asking you to a little bit theorize on the subject of the impact of the future law on the emotional state of children and also on the sense of safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U217	Thank you. That's an undiagnosed sympathetic question! When preparing this draft, as well as last year's draft, our aim was to support families with these laws as a whole, both children and parenthood in general. Giving flexible opportunities, extending paternity leave, at the same time allowing a stay on holiday, and the fact that the family can make these decisions according to their wishes and the needs of the child, I believe that all of this will create a sense of security for the family. In the debate on the previous point, there was also a debate on the gender pay gap. I think that if we allow fathers to spend more time with their children, not only theoretically but also practically, then our good mothers will be able, if they wish, to face the challenges and participate in the labour market with the kind of burden that suits them. Our young mothers have often said in their polls that they expect them to have flexible and family - based opportunities to raise children. Now, in any case, we are giving a positive signal to our young families. A separate block, which I have already talked about, is the creation of a new and much wider system for adoption families and care families. This should ensure that the child who arrives in the care family gets a much better start in the new family. The same goes for adoption. However, there is a particularly big change in care families, which have not been granted leave until now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U218	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. Monika Haukanõm will make a presentation on behalf of the lead committee, and I will read the Social Affairs Committee, as the vice-chairman has written.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you a brief overview of the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs on this draft. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the amendment of the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws by number 652 at its meeting on 5 June. In addition to the members and officials of the Commission, the Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva, who presented the draft, and Pirjo Turk, Head of Family Policy at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Legal Adviser at the Ministry Jaanus Põldmaa, participated in the discussion. The Minister of Social Protection presented to the Commission the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and, in connection with it, the amendment of other laws, just as he did today in this Chamber. I will give you a brief overview of the issues raised by the Members of the Commission, which have been partly discussed here today. Maris Lauri asked if the holiday could be taken out one day at a time. And as we have already heard today, Pirjo Turk replied that the holiday can really be taken out one day at a time in the future, but in order not to cause very serious problems for employers, the notice period has been extended to 30 days. Maris Lauri also wanted to know one more thing. He felt that there was strong discrimination in the law: it was based on the fact that the child had both parents. Children with one parent receive one month less paid parental care and the period of leave is also limited. Pirjo Turk explained that the days of parental leave are individual leave for both the mother and the father; they are not substitutable. Of course, this caused us such a small murmur in the Commission, and it is not intended to favour that the number of children without fatherhood will increase very much? Helmen Küttt explained that Maris Lauri had in mind the fathers for whom the child's birth certificate had not been entered. The answer was that the Ministry of Social Affairs does not want to favour the granting of more support to children without fatherhood, as previous experience has shown that there will be more children without fatherhood. Such an answer led to some confusion. Maris Lauri explained that the holiday was not for children but for parents and that parents could take it out and not be with the children. This issue also sounded very clear in this Chamber today: indeed, no one can control it or control who is at home with the child. It's always up to every parent, and no one will ever control it. We don't want a country like this, no matter where someone goes to check to see if their mother is at home at any time, or if she's at her father's. However, Pirjo Turk added that if there really is a situation where the child is left unsupervised or neglected that no one is raising him, there are problems with that, then child protection can be intervened. The Minister added that the Ministry of Social Affairs had also been approached with the proposal that both parents should have the right to parental leave, so that it would be paternity leave and maternity leave. After all, there are cases where one parent needs to be protected in such a way that another parent can be with the child. Maris Lauri said that basically, the bill provides for situations in which a single parent cannot receive the support of his parents over a longer period of time and, unlike other children, he or she must accept a shorter period of parental support. The Minister said that parental leave was really divided by parents in order to encourage the sharing of care burdens. In this sense, parental leave has to do with the parent, not with the child. Liina Kersna raised the question that the child is not guilty when, for example, one of her parents has died, but she can spend less days with the parent who uses vacation days than the children who have both parents. Liina also found that an exception could be considered for children who do not have another parent. A child with one parent is already vulnerable, and the state should not put him in an unequal position. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Pirjo Turk, said that an exception could be considered, but it should also be taken into account that the opportunities of a single parent in the labour market should not deteriorate as a result of additional leave. Tiina Kangro raised the issue that the Social Affairs Committee was only dealing with a draft concerning the parental leave of a disabled child a little while ago, and the debate also raised the question of whether the holiday pay should be paid through the employer. Tiina Kangro felt that a step should have been taken then. His question was whether the parent of a disabled child would continue to have two different holiday systems, why the two systems could not be reconciled. The representative of the Ministry, Mrs Turk, replied that the parent's holidays of a disabled child are still 12 days a year and can be taken out at the same time. The schemes will be reconciled and the leave will be paid through the Social Insurance Institution for parental benefit. Mr Kangro wanted to know further in detail why this care leave would not be put in the same scheme as we have already gone this way to make the situation more reasonable. The Minister replied that the draft concerned only children; it did not extend to other target groups, i.e. adults, for example. The debate on the same subject continued a little further. Tiina Kangro explained that a disabled child is also a child at the age of 18, and everything goes according to one system, but when a disabled child becomes an adult, her parent has to act according to another system. Similar things could be part of a single system. Jüri Jaanson asked me to explain what the parent definition is and who is entitled to parental leave. Pirjo Turk said that the child's biological parents were entitled to parental leave. If the child is adopted, his or her foster parents will also be enrolled as parents, and the right to parental leave will also be open to guardians and parents of the care family. The Commission's Chairwoman, Helmen Kütt, said that the Commission had to decide whether to discuss the draft once more or to propose to the draft at first reading on 13 June. The members of the Commission expressed their unanimous opinion that we could do it on that day at first reading, but since this is a very important draft, with many amendments, the time for submitting amendments should be long enough for all the stakeholders and all the members of the Commission and the political groups to have a proper discussion of the draft. It is certainly important for us to be able to meet interested parties, i.e. interest groups. The members of the Commission were all in agreement with this and it was proposed that the deadline for tabling amendments should be longer than usual. All the more so as the draft amends more than 20 laws. This requires a long period of study and a thorough discussion. The chairwoman of the Commission proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 1 August 2018. As I said, the Commission only discussed the draft at one meeting, and procedural decisions were taken at that meeting. The first was the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 13 June and to close the first reading. Next, to propose to set the deadline for amendments, as I have already mentioned, at 4 p.m. on 1 August 2018 and to appoint Monika Haukamm as rapporteur for the Commission. All decisions were taken by consensus. This was then a brief overview of the debate in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U220	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations to discuss the general principles of the bill. Please, Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! No one has two lives at the same time that one has a working life and another has a family life. They don't go by themselves, apart from each other. However, when a child is born into the family, making work and family life together becomes the main concern of the woman. As a convenient proof, only 8% of parents are entitled to parental benefit, and in the language of speech this benefit is called maternity pay. Why do we have these things? Is it because of the fossilized gender roles, time and age assessments and attitudes, or also because of the fathers' lukewarm interest in their children? At the same time, the employment rate of Estonian women has been very high for decades compared to that of many European countries, and our women give their eyes to the large majority of women in the rest of Europe and also to Estonian men with their average level of education. Yet, as we know, the pay gap between men and women is huge. And one of the main factors that narrows women's opportunities in the labour market is children. Good fellows! The current coalition has developed a plan to make the rigid regime more flexible and to encourage fathers' greater contribution to raising children. The aim has been to create a more flexible system of parental leave and benefit, which supports parents' participation in the labour market and the sharing of parenting. Parents should be able to decide more for themselves what is good for their families to share the joys and concerns of raising a child. Working life also goes better when Mom and Dad are on a boat, not to mention children. We started at the end of last year when we legalized the extension of paternity leave to 30 days. We increased the possibility of earning other benefits while receiving parental benefit and gave families the opportunity to divide the current period of one and a half years covered by the benefits into three years at their discretion. With the draft we are debating today, we will make the system even more flexible. Since a child of all ages needs both parents, it is also important that the mother and father are able to deal with the child at the same time if they so wish, sharing part of the workload and holiday allowance. The draft provides for the possibility for parents to spend 60 days together on parental leave and receive parental benefit at the same time for this period. In order to provide parents with more opportunities to work alongside the care of a young child or to use the benefit in part over a longer period, the draft provides for the possibility to pay parental benefit on a day-by-day basis. This gives both parents the opportunity to work part-time and alternately at home with the child, for example. Another type of paid leave is intended to make the mother and father more suitable, more favourable. We are talking about parental leave, which is currently provided to the mother or father three to six working days a year, depending on the age and number of children. If these days are not used during the calendar year, they will simply be lost. After the reform, both parents would be granted ten working days of paid parental leave for each child until the child is 9 years old. The leave can be used in one part or parts. This would allow several years of parental leave to be kept and taken out at the same time. Those days could come in handy when the child is just getting used to the kindergarten, starting school, or if the family wants to travel together. There is also an increase in the compensation for parental leave. As we know, everything is a well-forgotten old one. As early as 2010, the Social Democrats submitted a draft reform of the parental benefit scheme to the Riigikogu's proceedings, but then the matter remained closed. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U222	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U223	Once it had to be done anyway. In the context of the draft, it is important to note that, for several and several generations, Estonian mothers have wanted two or three children in the family, while the birth rate remains persistently on 1.6. Of course, flexible parental benefits and parental leave opportunities are not some magic trick that makes women give birth. However, the possibility of reconciling work and family life much better. Child support has finally increased, but the desire to make a career, to get on the line with our lives, is a major factor in making the child's birth postponed. However, Nordic experience shows that more other or third children have been born into families where fathers have taken parental leave. There's also a reduced probability that a couple will break up, by 30%. For a child of any age, the time spent with a father has a positive effect. The physical and emotional development of the child will be accelerated and social skills will be improved. That's what research shows. Not only are men who deal with their children from the countryside and take care of them through life, they themselves are less risky and addicted and live longer than those who are merely money-serving machines or individual wolves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-13_U224	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 652. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 16 a.m. on 1 August. We'll meet tomorrow at 10:00. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 5.38 p.m.
