ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. I congratulate you on a public holiday, an international men's day. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Suur tänu!'???]] The Monday session of the 9th working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu begins with the transmission of drafts and enquiries. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of 39 members of the Riigikogu, I will submit a draft to the procedure entitled 'The Riigikogu Statement on the UN Global Migration Framework'. I think that, obviously, for this statement and for this whole issue, question No 1 is why we are submitting a statement and why it is not being processed in any other way. Look at the year 2016 when the United Nations began preparing this migration framework, this year its work was completed and found to be 10/11. On 31 December, this document should be approved in Marrakech, Morocco, so they did not think that we would still have a decision to make here until today, until that date. The Riigikogu is not only the size of legislation, it is also competent to decide on other matters. That is why we have statements, declarations and appeals. This statement is the support of the Riigikogu for this UN Global Migration Framework document, which should no longer have such issues in Estonia. Dear Riigikogu, I very much hope, on behalf of the applicants, that we will probably be able to receive this document quickly in cooperation with the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted the text of the statement. A representative of the Government of the Republic also has the floor. Unfortunately, that was not the wish in my table or board. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, a draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. And second, the bill of deposit. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U5	So, on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one statement. The Riigikogu Board processes them as usual, according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U6	75 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 9th working week of the VIIIth plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. There are 72 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the agenda, there is no one against and there are four abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U7	The first item on the agenda is an inquiry by Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Enn Meri, Krista Aru and Ain Lutsepp. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U8	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister, members of the Riigikogu and guests! We have talked a lot about excise issues in this Riigikogu during the times of its composition and, of course, because of the outstanding errors that have been made in the planning of excise duties. Perhaps what happens with fuel excise has been hidden in vain lately. The content of our enquiry is the impact of fuel prices on the transport sector and on the consumer. It is no secret that the price of oil on the world market has risen mostly in recent weeks, although it has come down again, while the price level in Estonia has been extremely high for years and comparable to the price level of very developed, more expensive countries in Europe. Now, if you come a little to the historical hinterland of this Riigikogu, I think the sharp spotlight of alcohol excise took place some time after the representatives of the Free Party had submitted a question. Its content was the situation of country shops in South Estonia and the impact of alcohol sales in Latvia on it. In the case of excise duties on fuel, it is likely that one historical look should also be taken back. In 2015, when the coalition formed by the Reform Party at that time started to increase excise duties in order to fulfil the electoral promises. One of the first initiatives of the Free Party related to resisting the rise in excise duties on fuel, as it seemed very disproportionate to us at the time. We have had such a consequence that diesel cars in particular have been refueling in Latvia for a long time. So this initiative came from us already in May 2015. I have to admit that the party of the current Prime Minister, the Centre Party, also addressed the matter quite sharply at the time, both in opposition and later in government, and has made some adjustments here, but we do not think that they are sufficient. It is important for us to raise here the problems that the Government of the Republic intends to do if the increase in fuel prices continues on the world market. How can such a case ensure the functioning and attractiveness of the tax and economic environment? We consider it important that both labour and production inputs are taxed as low as possible. So far, the question has been raised in particular as to what would be the country's loss of income in the coming year if the rate of excise duty on liquid fuel were to be reduced to, for example, the same level as in Latvia. We would like to reverse the position and discussion of this issue, i.e. to raise the question of what the impact of lowering the price of liquid fuel on the economic environment as a whole could be. We expect meaningful answers from the Prime Minister on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U9	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U10	President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, I thank you very much for the serious questioning of the impact of fuel prices on the transport sector and on the consumer. You have submitted an inquiry with four questions. If you will allow me, I will read these questions out, and I will also give an answer to each question. The first question: 'What is the Government of the Republic's agenda if the increase in fuel prices continues on the world market? " The aim of the coalition agreement concluded between the Social Democratic Party, Isamaa and the Centre Party in November 2016 was to resolve the population crisis, bring the population of Estonia back to growth, and boost the economy so that the economic growth it brings to every person in Estonia. According to the Strategy Bureau of the State Chancellery, 313 tasks, or 95%, had been performed by the government's action programme for the implementation of the coalition agreement, including as of 1 November. At the bottom of the tax policy chapter, we explicitly promised the representative of the heirs that something, a small one, has also done well by this coalition, that we will not increase VAT on accommodation establishments in 2017 and the increase in excise duty on diesel in 2018. At the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu at the time, on 19 December 2016, the Riigikogu adopted the Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws, which removed the 10% increase in excise duty on diesel for 2018. The evolution of oil prices on the world market has been quite steep and often unpredictable in recent years. Fuel price increases have accelerated inflation, and according to the Ministry of Finance forecasts it will remain close to 3% in 2019. At the same time, wage and old-age pension growth has been faster, i.e. people's standard of living has increased and should continue in the coming years. While the rise in oil prices affects producers and consumers in all countries, higher rates of excise duty can impair the country's competitiveness compared to others and increase border trade. The impact of fuel price increases will be greater for the transport sector, where fuel consumption is high and which competes on the international market. Certainly, fuel price growth is an issue that the government is closely monitoring. More generally, the Ministry of Finance is in the process of carrying out a study on the impact of excise duties on the risks, opportunities and impact of excise policy on the economic environment in the context of border trade, which provides additional information for future excise policy decisions. Among other things, the purpose of the analysis is to gain a more comprehensive overview of the economic impact of excise policy in recent years and also to assess the impact of future excise policy options. The study will be completed by the end of February next year. The second question: 'How does the Government of the Republic intend to make the tax and economic environment more attractive and competitive for the transport sector? " In recent years, competition on the international transport market has been intense and Estonian road transport companies have lost market share to Latvian and Lithuanian companies in neighbouring countries. One of the reasons is the wage pressure caused by labour shortages, which increases the costs of Estonian companies and increases the prices of services. The costs of Estonian companies are also affected by higher excise duties on fuel. Thus, in recent years, expenditure growth in road transport has exceeded revenue growth and profitability has decreased. The rates of excise duty on diesel fuel in Latvia and Lithuania are one of the lowest in the European Union. The rate in Estonia is 493 euros per 1000 litres, while in Lithuania it is 330.17 euros per 1000 litres, and it is not known that Lithuania is planning to increase the excise duty rate in the near future. The difference in excise duty rates with Latvia decreased this year as the rate of excise duty on diesel was increased to 372 EUR/1000 litres on 1 January 2018. According to the current decisions, Latvia will continue to increase excise duty and the excise duty rate will reach EUR 414 per 1000 litres by 2020. Given that land transport accounts for 40% of total diesel consumption, thus being the largest consumer of diesel in all sectors of activity, the possible reduction in excise duty will have the greatest impact on road transport. Lowering the excise duty on diesel would also affect households but would have a more moderate effect, as households account for around 12% of diesel consumption. The competitiveness of the transport sector is also influenced by external factors. For example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is currently working on a draft amendment to the Traffic Act, which provides that Estonian vehicles can also be subject to roadworthiness tests in another Member State of the European Union. This change concerns in essence all Estonian trucks that work outside Estonia. Question 3: How and what impact has the introduction of road user charges had on the transport sector? How and how effective has it been to monitor the payment of road user charges, in particular for transport providers from other countries? How has the increase in fuel prices and road charges affected small businesses in rural areas? ' Riigikogu passed the Act on the levying of road user fees in June 2017. The purpose of the road user charge was to collect additional resources to ensure the quality of the transport infrastructure by more applying the user-pays principle. This, however, is in a way that does not unduly impair the competitiveness of businesses or the livelihood of the population. It was also based on the principle that road user charges can collect funds for the storage of transport infrastructure from trucks registered abroad, which are not subject to heavy duty in Estonia and for which no fuel is purchased here. Among other things, the expected positive effects of the application of the road user fee were also expected to reduce the negative environmental impact. The State Chancellery already commissioned a study "Opportunities for the application of transport taxes in Estonia' in 2015, which analysed the impact of road user charges on our economy and transport business. According to the study, the impact of road user charges on GDP is positive if revenue is reinvested directly into the economy. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that the effects of the reinvestment are subject to a significant time shift. According to the study, it was estimated that by adopting the law, the revenue will increase to EUR 17 million per year to the state budget, and this has been confirmed by the revenue received so far. Rather, it is expected that road user charges will be higher than expected in the 2018 budget. However, according to the experts, the 10-month period is too short to fully assess the impact of road user charges on the transport sector. However, on the basis of an impact assessment of the above study, it can be argued that given the number of vehicles covered by the road user charge and the other costs incurred by the transport undertaking, the impact of the road user charge is relatively small. The payment of the road user fee is supervised by the Police and Border Guard Board and the Tax and Customs Board. In addition to normal procedures, all trucks on the Estonian and Russian border will be checked for the payment of the road user fee. According to ANTS information system of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, 23351 trucks moved on Estonian roads between January and September 2018, of which approximately 59% were vehicles registered in Estonia and 41% were foreign trucks. Based on the analysis carried out by MTA, 56% of all vehicles had always paid road user charges during this period, compared with 49% of Estonian vehicles and 67% of foreign vehicles. Road user charges were outstanding in 11% of trucks between January and September 2018, including 10% of Estonian vehicles and 12% of foreign vehicles. No separate studies have been carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on the impact of changes in individual input prices affecting entrepreneurship. The road user fee shall be paid for all trucks with a maximum weight exceeding 350 kilograms and their trailers. Therefore, large and small enterprises or the location of the undertaking cannot be considered separately. The fee equally affects all transport companies and persons owned by trucks with a maximum mass exceeding 350 kilograms. Question 4: 'Until now, the government has calculated the loss of revenue resulting from the reduction of the excise duty on liquid fuel. Our question to you is the opposite: what is the impact of lowering the excise duty on liquid fuel in terms of boosting the economic environment as a whole? 'The purpose of the excise duties is to tax goods the consumption and production of which has an impact on health and/or the environment. Excise duty rates on products are set in order to regulate and limit people's consumption patterns and production. Of course, the second objective of excise duties is also to obtain revenue for the performance of the tasks of the State. The reduction in excise duties on liquid fuel generally means a reduction in costs for transport companies. Lowering the excise duty on liquid fuel would improve the viability of Estonian transport companies and hinder profitability, but in competition with neighbouring transport companies, Estonian companies would still be affected by higher labour costs. Thank you for your questions. I tried to give as precise an answer as possible. I would also like to thank the members of the Free Party Group for raising this issue. I am ready to respond to further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U11	Questions for the Prime Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. In September, the Ministry of Finance evidently made such an assessment that if excise duties on petrol and diesel were to be brought to Latvia's level, this would cost a total of 119 million euros for the state budget. Nearly 100 million of this would come from diesel, with a significantly lower share of petrol. In this context of the state budget, the Free Party has also repeatedly raised the issue that the costs of our administration have not been presented as clear lines or transparently in the state budget, especially for ministries and also for the State Chancellery. It seems to us that this is exactly the place where we can save. And we've been talking about saving one hundred million dollars. It would be good if you would now come out of these papers and we would have the opportunity to negotiate on this matter. What is your assessment of whether 100 million could be added in order for excise duties on fuel to be at the same level as Latvia, which would have a positive impact on our economic environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U13	Thank you. I would, in principle, be willing to discuss this point seriously. And without a joke, maybe I'd wonder if we shouldn't raise that level of ambition even more. I mean, when I've met the oil company, they've been referring to the Lithuanian price level. In particular, diesel consumption has moved from Estonia to Latvia, not so much, but already to Lithuania. I think that your estimate of diesel plus petrol is correct, about this magnitude is. I also remember that the fall of diesel excise duties on the Lithuanian level could mean a size level of 96 to 100 million minus to the state budget. There will be more petrol, but as you said very rightly, it will be much lower than diesel. Now, on the other hand, your question. I understand you're talking about the management costs of ministries, maintenance costs, daily expenses. If the question is about whether we can seriously look at it, then I say yes, we could. I have said in one of my public articles, if I am not mistaken, it was in the Postimees, that I think the entire state budget could be taken apart as many slices as possible before the next coalition agreement was born. It could be seen from this that how much cuts can be made there in such a way that we can increase overall efficiency without reducing the effectiveness of this area. Your question was whether this could be worth EUR 100 million. I cannot give you an assessment here of whether EUR 100 million could be cut so that it would not have a significant impact on the public sector, on ministries, or on more or less. But, in principle, I support this approach so that the next coalition, whoever is going to be there, can take a serious look at this issue during the discussion of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U14	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U15	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The Ministry of Finance has commissioned a study entitled "The risks, opportunities and impact of excise policy on the economic environment in the context of border trade'. During public procurement, a contract was concluded with PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisor with a value of EUR 81900 plus VAT. The study should be completed by March. We have a number of research companies in Estonia who would certainly be able to do this analysis much more favourably. Why has the government gone this way? This almost EUR 100000 could be used more effectively, for example, for research and development, as foreseen by the Regional Development Fund. Why is there no preference for more favourable offers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U16	Thank you. This question now goes to the very details of whether there have been more favourable offers, how this tender or procurement has been built up. If you need my help to find out more about MKM or RM, I'm sure you'll let me know. I really can't tell you how many bidders there were and what those prices were. On the basis of the preparation of the answers to this question, I certainly do not dare to say this to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U17	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, in answering your questions, you also touched on the issue of the payment of road user charges. You said that the ten-month summaries could certainly not be decisive, the final conclusions could not yet be drawn. I'd still like to know your judgment. In particular, it has been heard that road user charges for international transport are not sufficiently guaranteed. What are the reasons? Is supervision too weak? Are there not enough measures and opportunities to implement this monitoring, or are there other reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U19	Thank you. As I said, I will repeat for a moment the road user charge during the period January to September, including the unpaid 11% of the vehicles, 10% of Estonian trucks and 12% of foreign vehicles. What are the reasons? One reason is certainly the new regime, the implementation of the system. After all, this is an application that requires not only national communication, but also communication with companies across national borders. I'm sure you're getting smarter about the app. You also pointed out in your question whether this could be about monitoring, whether it needs to be improved and better done. Yeah, sure. I believe that, as always, lessons must be learned. I don't know if 12 months is enough time, but I'm sure these first lessons will be learned. I hope that this outstanding amount will be smaller next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U20	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I ask enough of this very last answer that if it is found that the money has not been paid, it will not be paid. How about this? This may be possible in the case of western machinery or machinery coming from a distance, but in the case of Estonia, it is not possible that this fee will not be paid. What about the odds?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U22	I think the general principle is that neither in the West nor in Estonia will this fee be paid; it will be sought out. I'm sure there's some kind of opportunity when it's never gonna happen. For example, if the company no longer exists, it has gone bankrupt, it has been wound up. But the fact that it's gonna be handed down and said, "Let it stay" is definitely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U23	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U24	Mr. Chairman! Thank you, Prime Minister, for their answers. However, I must also mark the 'but' that the Free Party cannot accept. On some points you even answered a little surprisingly, positively, so that we could work together in the future to resolve these issues. This general 'but' or problem is still that the Government of the Republic has clearly not invested enough in the future in good times, when economic economic conjuncture is positive. This concerns a wide spectrum of issues, including research and development, education and everything. It certainly includes labour taxes and inputs in order to keep them as friendly as possible to the company. Now, from your point of view, the excise duty on fuel will indeed be brought to the same level as Latvia and Lithuania, especially the excise duty on diesel. Yeah, it's gonna cost. But your saying that how much this brings back to society could, for example, be discussed after the next elections is, of course, encouraging. We would be happy to discuss this more boldly even before the next elections and even in the context of the state budget for the coming year. Just next to that, I will give you one nude example of how public money is handled, perhaps the same excise survey ordered by the Ministry of Finance, which still has a huge number on the price tag. Our public authorities have, as has been lost, the ability to analyse situations themselves, to carry out these analyses and to make assessments. First they miss and then they put a lot of money on it to let themselves know what's been done and how it's been done. It is true, of course, that there has also been evidence of different coalitions and political will, which have obviously affected officials in their calculations. I do not know whether such increases in excise duty would necessarily have come from the wisdom of the officials of the Ministry of Finance. And last comment: I would like to refer here to the monitoring of the payment of road user charges. This really seems to be a major problem and concerns, in particular, those carriers who are not Estonian taxpayers at all, but who should also pay this fee. If they do not pay, this will undoubtedly put Estonian small businesses in an unfair position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U25	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish for negotiations, nor does the Prime Minister. Dear Riigikogu, now the chairman's break is 15 minutes until 3.50 p.m. This is the reason for the Bureau meeting, to which I would also ask the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U26	Dear Riigikogu, the break I took is over. Sorry, two minutes more! The Bureau worked with the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and took the following decisions: The first decision is that the commission responsible for the draft statement submitted today is the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And the second decision is that the deadline for submitting amendments is 10 a.m. on Friday this week. Thank you. We shall proceed to the sitting of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U27	The following question is made by Olga Ivanova, Heimar Lenk, Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassilyev and Oudekki Loone. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U28	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, In October this year, 500 health professionals sent public visits to members of the Riigikogu as well as to members of the Government of the Republic of Estonia regarding the procurement of specialist medical care from the Health Insurance Fund. It drew attention to the situation where, according to the first results of the purchase of specialist medical care by the Health Insurance Fund, 150,000 people are deprived of the opportunity to attend a cardiologist's appointment near their home in Lasnamäe, as well as in the city centre, in Sadama Medicum, to receive an ear-nose-throat doctor and an ophthalmologist, and in Pirital and Viimsi, paid by the Health Insurance Fund (in total more than 50000 cases per year). In addition, there are plans to reduce the number of free receptions of a number of other specialists, such as gynaecologists, orthopaedics, gastroenterologists and pulmologists by up to 90%. Despite the fact that both the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs have sent a message to the public about resolving the situation, specialists in the field are convinced that all these so-called solutions are temporary and emergency measures and that drastic reductions in treatment cases cannot be overlooked. We therefore ask the Minister for Health and Labour for answers to the following questions: The first question: "As your minister, how do you assess the recommendation of the Head of the Health Insurance Fund to the residents of Lasnamäe, Pirita and Viimsi to visit a specialist doctor in the counties instead? Does the Health Insurance Fund also finance additional transport costs? The second question: " What did the management of the health insurance fund use to draw up the terms of the procurement? It was known that during the previous procurement period, the same problems arose in the Lasnamäe region. Why did well-paid management fail to anticipate this situation? ' The third question: 'How long will the temporary agreement that the East Tallinn Central Hospital will offer a free admission from 1 December in the field of ear-nose-throat doctor and gynecologist at Medicum Clinic Red Street 61? ' And the last question: 'How does the decision of the Health Insurance Fund to direct funding and medical treatment to the hospital in HVA improve access to medical services for people? Does this decision increase the employment of doctors, nurses and midwives? ' We expect your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U29	Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U30	Dear Chairman, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm responding to Central Party inquiry 449. The first question: "As your minister, how do you assess the recommendation of the Head of the Health Insurance Fund to the residents of Lasnamäe, Pirita and Viimsi to visit a specialist doctor in the counties instead? Does the Health Insurance Fund also finance additional transport costs? ' Knowing Rain Laane, I'm sure it was a failed expression that does not describe his attitude toward the health concerns of people in Lasnamäe, Viimsi, and Pirita. But the queues are really different across service providers: some have a queue for several weeks and some have several months; others can have an appointment tomorrow. However, it is not possible for a person to call all the service providers and look for free time, be it to a dermatologist, gynaecologist or ophthalmologist. There are several and several service providers in Tallinn. So the transparency of queues and the pooling of information in the digital registration office are needed so that people can actually realise this option even in the situation, for example, if they can choose between service providers in Tallinn. The right help must undoubtedly be available to people in the right place at the right time. In the immediate vicinity of the home, the family doctor and the family nurse must receive the help that health centres will provide in the future in Lasnamägi, Pirita and Viimsi. During the next year, the Lasnamäe Health Centre will be opened next to Medicum, where 24 family doctors and 46 family nurses will work, along with midwives, nurses and physiotherapists. They create an opportunity to respond to the health concerns of people in a wider circle already at the first level. If you look at the longer plan, the same is true for specialist care: Tallinn Hospital brings it closer to the people of Lasnamäe. The second question: "What did the management of the Health Insurance Fund use to draw up the terms of the procurement? It was known that during the previous procurement period, the same problems arose in the Lasnamäe region. Why did well-paid management fail to anticipate this situation? 'The Health Insurance Fund developed the award criteria for this procurement by including proposals from the Hospital Association, professional communications, private health institutions, etc. More than 100 proposals from 13 parties were input into the agreement on the award criteria for the procurement. The Health Insurance Fund complied with the principles and conditions laid down in the Public Procurement Act, including on equal treatment and competition enforcement. The aim was to find better competences, compliance and quality service providers. Thus, those who did not have a valid tax debt or a criminal sanction, who had a valid licence and also a net turnover during the previous year, qualified for the procurement. Perhaps these providers had provided services in the past. The offers were assessed in two rounds: the first assessed quality, availability and compliance, the second assessed the price offered. The tender had more bidders than ever. The demand was about 100 million and the Health Insurance Fund distributed 46 million euros, so more than two people came for each euro. Such competition inevitably leads to disputes because someone wins, someone loses and someone is dissatisfied. If you look at the Estonian health care system, we have been working in private clinics for years alongside hospital network development plan hospitals. Private health institutions have a role to play. We look at both private service providers and hospital network development hospitals as one of the health care systems, and I think it's valuable. But it must be agreed on the basis of which we work together and on what value the private sector can add to health care. Perhaps certain service providers have specific competences or are closer to people in some areas than the hospital network development plan hospital. Perhaps we want to shorten the queues with the help of private service providers. All this means different types of procurement criteria. We must first agree on what we want to achieve with the help of private service providers, which is the value they create. The award criteria can be agreed accordingly. Such fundamental discussions must be held before the next procurement. There have been agreements with private service providers for years, but there is no agreement, a common understanding of the extent to which competition in healthcare works and what we want from the private sector. Rain Laane, Chairman of the Management Board of the Health Insurance Fund, has also said that following the settlement of disputes, the next purchase will be prepared at the beginning of next year. The third question: 'How long will the temporary agreement that East Tallinn Central Hospital will offer a free admission from 1 December in the field of ear-nose-throat doctor and gynecologist at Medicum Clinic Red Street 61? ' The solution found in cooperation with East Tallinn Central Hospital for the provision of ear-nose-throat doctor and gynecological assistance in the Lasnamäe region is valid throughout the procurement period, i.e. three years. Question 4: How does the decision of the Health Insurance Fund to direct funding and treatment cases to the hospital network development plan improve access to medical services for people? Does this decision increase the employment of doctors, nurses and midwives? ' The Health Insurance Fund really bought up the treatment queues. Perhaps all people who had booked an appointment or agreed to a scheduled procedure at the existing service providers will receive their services at the agreed place and time of arrival at the old service provider. After the conclusion of the new contracts, the hospital network development plan will sometimes be provided in cooperation with the hospital. So the volume of services with new procurement is not increasing, but due to the buy-in of queues, the volume of services has actually increased in many disciplines. There are even 23,000 medical cases. So, indeed, this total amount in some specialties is growing as a result of the buy-in of queues and can give more work to a doctor, nurse, or other health care professional. In Lasnamägi as a whole, seven private service providers provide services, four of whom are new entrants. At some destinations, the resolution of medical cases in some specialties also takes place in cooperation with hospitals of the Hospital Network Development Plan during the interim period, if the contracts concluded in the course of the procurement are not yet operational. These are so-called additional cases for hospitals in the Hospital Network Development Plan, which allow for additional medical admissions and thus still improve access to the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U31	Questions for the Minister. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In your answer to the first question, you mentioned or stressed that there must be obviously a family doctor and family nurse service that I do not quite agree with. It is a question of access to specialised medical care and it is obvious that re-directing patients in such a large part of the city to other service providers will again lead to an increase in queues. Do you consider it normal that it is extremely difficult to get children to see a nose-ear-throat doctor, for example, in the capital of Estonia? The order may be two or three months long. As we know, it is much easier to get a specialist to see. Why is this situation in the capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U33	Thank you. I do not consider this to be normal, and as I said, there are so many different service providers in Tallinn, especially in outpatient occupations, that it is actually difficult for a person to get information about who has free admissions at the time. On the one hand, it is now difficult for a human being. On the other hand, when we talk about the availability of services in Estonia or Tallinn, the volume of services as a whole will not decrease. Perhaps the number of receptions by an ear-nose-throat doctor, gynaecologist or ophthalmologist will not be reduced in this sense. The question is what is the location of the provision of the particular service. I agree that if we agree that the value is when the service is near the human home, then Tallinn and Harjumaa cannot be viewed as a single procurement area. What we are talking about is that there are separate areas in Tallinn where we can obtain this service. So far, the approach has been that we look at the county, the choice available at this level, and it has indeed turned out that it is not working well for Tallinn. In some areas, the number of admissions to a particular profession may decrease. This is what should be changed when preparing the next procurement. We will agree on what we want from the private sector. Do we want to have specific competences that are not included in the development plan for the hospital network? Do we want to be close to home? Hospital Masterplan hospital cannot be in every part of the city, city or village. Do we want to increase the choice, i.e. we do not give the volume of Tallinn's specialties to one bidder, but divide it into five or ten parts to enable people to choose? What is it that we want to have? Once we have agreed on this, we can also set criteria and the outcome of the procurement meets expectations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U34	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U35	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I find it a little unclear how the Health Insurance Fund plans regional health care. At the moment, it seems that in specialist medical care, such as the appointment times of Narva doctors in Rakvere and Tallinn, it is decided that the local hospital managers will not be discussed at all. Everything goes up somehow, without taking into account local needs or opportunities. Why is the Health Insurance Fund acting like this, why is there no regional self-determination?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U36	Do you think about the regional self-determination of how much the hospital network development plan hospital provides in a given area and how much it is purchased from the private sector? So far, such planning has not been carried out at local level or in any way sub-delegated. The size of the hospital network development plan in hospitals and how much more private sector is being bought has really been the responsibility of the Health Insurance Fund so far. I can't tell you what it would be worth to delegate it to the local level or how a better decision could be made. But I agree that if this seems important, it may be discussed further. At the same time, people are also moving between regions and this whole picture must inevitably be kept together: these borders must go somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U37	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. My question is a little more general. Is it intended to explain why the special medical care contracts currently do not provide a continuous link with the family doctors? Why does a family doctor have to look at the website of the Health Insurance Fund, which specialist consults his patients in one year or another? After all, it would be much easier to organise it in a way that is already agreed on in the contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U39	Thank you for your question. It really matters how we have family doctors, doctors, and hospitals working together and how patients move within it. We need to go in a simple and logical way, make sure that a person doesn't fall into somewhere, and the information goes back so that the family doctor can see what the advice of a specialist has been. This is what gives us more personalized treatment, gives us better results and, to sum up, savings. If one level doesn't know what the other one is doing, it's bad. But these patient routes cannot be controlled by the registrar's mistress or family nurse. We're there to do this in an algorithm. I agree this is the right way to go. And it is also important to have a more permanent relationship between a family doctor and a specialist. Family doctors have started using the e-consultation service. They ask a specialist for advice on how to solve a patient's health problem. The specialist can decide whether he or she can give treatment instructions to the family physician and whether he or she will continue to follow the treatment, or whether he or she still needs to see the patient. Family doctors value this service very much. This will make it possible to reduce specialist visits which do not need to be reduced in the case of health concerns that can be addressed at the primary level and thus reduce the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U40	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, so I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U41	Right now and now we are going to the question that has been made by Vilja Toomas, Valdo Randpere, Mati Raidma, Urmas Kruuse, Johannes Kert, Peep Aru, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Ants Laaneots, Kristen Michal, Heidy Purga, Yoko Alender, Meelis Mälberg, Aivar Sõerd and Urve Tiidus, who will present to us immediately on behalf of all the heirs. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good afternoon, honourable members of the Riigikogu and Minister of Health and Labour! On 16 October, 14 members of the Reform Party Group submitted an inquiry to Mrs Riina Sikkut, Minister for Health and Labour. The inquiry was prompted by the factual situation that had developed at that time between the Health Insurance Fund and private health care providers. In particular, since the beginning of October, agreements were to be in force between the Health Insurance Fund and private clinics, the volume of which was to amount to several million euros over three years, but by the time the inquiry was submitted, many contracts had continued to be challenged and several contracts had not been awarded to private clinics known to have won the procurement. The explanations given by the Health Insurance Fund's managers regarding the current situation were insufficient. However, it did not delight patients whose treatment was delayed because they were not aware of whether the appointment of an existing doctor was valid. There was little information about whether and when it was possible to first participate in the procurement and to make an appointment with healthcare providers. And it was as if i had a clue where the patient's "doctor" would begin to accept in the future. Doctors and health care providers can also be considered as suffering parties. The Ministry of Finance has publicly acknowledged that the new specialist medical care contracts concluded by the Health Insurance Fund with private clinics are contrary to the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, the contracts concluded with hospitals for the development of the hospital network should not apply, as the procurement was one of the references to public information from 26 September. Raul-Allan Kiivet, Professor of Health Management at the University of Tartu, says directly that the procurement of specialist medical contracts for the Health Insurance Fund should be cancelled, the contracts in force should be extended for six months and the public information should also start again from 8 October. 500 medical workers in their letter to the Minister have also made a rigorous assessment of the completed healthcare procurement, even calling it a total fiasco. The preparation of public procurement for specialist medical care began at the time of Minister Evgeni Ossinoski and was completed by Minister Riina Sikkut. Of course, one of these two ministers is responsible for the result. The authors of the inquiry have six specific questions for Minister Sikkut that I am not going to read here. I hope the Minister will read them out nicely, as in the previous question, and answer them. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U43	Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U44	Hello again, honourable Chairman of the Board and Members of the Riigikogu! I really do read these questions, but they cannot be considered specific in any way. The first question: 'The managers of the Health Insurance Fund Rain Laane and Maivi Parv have told the public that by purchasing services from the private sector with specialist medical care, the Health Insurance Fund offers people additional opportunities to receive specialised medical care at private clinics, thereby increasing the choice and quality of service and access to services for patients. The intention was to increase the number of private clinics, but the share of hospitals in the hospital network development plan increased. Sounds like a change in the rate of alcohol duty. Ossinovski wanted to limit alcohol consumption; in fact, alcohol consumption increased. As your minister and chairman of the Health Insurance Board, how would you describe the competence of the Health Insurance Fund's managers to plan and implement their activities successfully? Who is responsible, who made the mistake that words and deeds do not coincide? ' It is really the task of the state to ensure that all people receive high quality and accessible health care. And it is important that there is no cooperation in health care, no one is left without assistance in case of concern, including the development plan for the hospital network between hospitals and private service providers. The function of the board of the Health Insurance Fund was to ensure the execution of the procurement and the conclusion of contracts for the financing of medical treatment, based on criteria approved by the Supervisory Board, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Health Insurance Act and the Public Procurement Act in conjunction. In carrying out the procurement of specialist medical care, the Board of the Health Insurance Fund was guided by the law, the powers and tasks conferred on it by the legislator. Indeed, there were many questions about how to proceed and what is right and what is not. In view of this outcome, the number of questions relating to appeal and legality, I asked the Chairman of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund to order a legal analysis to enable an assessment to be made as to whether the Health Insurance Fund has acted in accordance with the applicable law and whether the contracts concluded are lawful. The three important conclusions of this legal analysis were as follows: The Health Insurance Fund can conclude contracts by choice outside hospitals of the Hospital Network Development Plan, but the new Public Procurement Act, which entered into force in September 2017, must be followed. Secondly, old contracts cannot be renewed. The extension of contracts concluded before the entry into force of the new Public Procurement Act is exceptional in the context of the Act and there are very few grounds for this. Thirdly, both the tenderers and the contracting authority understood this procurement as a split call. Consequently, contracts may be concluded for those rankings where there is no dispute. This has also been confirmed by judgments in which the primary legal protection, i.e. the prohibition to award contracts, was imposed only on the affected rankings or on the parts which are the subject of a dispute. Thus, the Health Insurance Fund is able to conclude agreements with their service providers in those regions and in those specialties where there is no dispute. There was also a case where the first two out of the four contracts did not argue, the third and the fourth arguing. The Administrative Court decided that the first two contracts could be concluded, and those contracts on which there was a dispute can, of course, be concluded after the dispute has been settled. So for all disciplines and for all regions, there is no need to wait for all disputes to be resolved. From private clinics, the Health Insurance Fund buys services of about 7% of the total volume of the rest of the services provided by the Hospital Network Development Plan hospitals, and the disputes concern only part of this 7%. So talking about a total fiasco, people not knowing where to get services, is worrying and startling. It shouldn't be like that. After October 1, everyone was able to go to the doctor where they had an appointment or scheduled treatment procedure. In fact, all the patients had that fortress. I'm really sorry when people got confused. So the disputes concern a very small number of service providers and individual specializations mostly in Tallinn or Harjumaa. Question 2: 'Hankel won a small group of Narva eye doctors who participated in the procurement with several companies, which cloned their company and should now start providing services in Tallinn. In essence, a shelf company will provide services to people in Tallinn who do not have suitable facilities in Tallinn and who do not have enough doctors. What, in your opinion, went wrong in the procurement so that such a situation could arise? " Ophthalmology did indeed have great competition: there were at least two wills for each treatment case. The assessment of the tenderers who participated in the tender was based on the legal framework developed by the Health Insurance Fund's legislator and on the basis of the assessment of the circumstances in which the Council awarded the financing of the medical treatment contract. There was no basis for treating the tenderer referred to in any way different from the other tenderers, based on the circumstances in which the tenderer was assessed, such as the country of origin of the tenderer or the fact that health services had previously been provided in a smaller volume than was now intended to be provided by this tender. It is certainly not legally competent to call this bidder a shell company. For a particular company, it is known that they have premises and working doctors. The service was started immediately after the conclusion of the contract. In assessing the tenderer, the sickness insurance fund could only take into account the tender documents submitted and their eligibility for the procurement. It is also clear that if the service provider to whom the contract is awarded is unable to provide the service, the contract must be terminated. I am very much in favour of a quick start to discussions on the criteria for the next procurement. If the question is what allowed such a situation to occur, I have already stressed the reason for answering the first question. In healthcare, services have been purchased from the private sector for years, but in fact there is no agreement, a common understanding of the value that we gain from it, the extent to which competition works or which criteria could better achieve the desired solution in the procurement process. The Council discussed these procurement criteria. There were very different perceptions of the extent to which competition in healthcare functions, the weight of the price criterion should be given and the need to keep the market open for new service providers. There were very strong views that we cannot shut down the market; it must be open to new entrants. I think that competition in healthcare is not working. We do not want a fully open market. We want to ensure that it is a competent service provider that has previously provided this type of service. The price is not an important criterion for buying these services from the private sector. Question 3: 'The terms of the contract also deprived Tallinn's eye clinic, who is the only one in Estonia who offers patients a procedure called keratoconus and who also has a medical device. According to Dr. Kai Noore, this contract period will run out before any newcomers are prepared to provide such a service. In particular, a medical device should be purchased by public procurement, which takes 8 to 12 months, and the training of a doctor to work on this machine in order to treat a patient should last at least 3.5 years. Madam Minister, you know that this service is on the list of health services, and according to the law, you must be responsible for ensuring that this service is provided to patients. How are you going to come out of this situation so that the suffering of the patients ends? ' In answer to the third question, yes, as Chairman of the Health Insurance Board, I am fully aware of my responsibility. The Governing Board has kept the Governing Council informed of the outcome of the procurement and, according to the Governing Board, the availability and continuity of this healthcare to patients is ensured. The Health Insurance Fund shall ensure that all registered patients are serviced during the following six months in the case of outpatient visits and during the year in the case of scheduled care. And due to the buy-in of queues in ophthalmology, the volume of procurement as a whole has actually increased, there have been more treatment cases. The treatment of patients with Keratoconus will be taken over by the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital in cooperation with the same competent doctor and the necessary legal procedures will be completed in the coming weeks. There is certainly a need to learn from the process. And as I have mentioned many times today, we need the agreement that we want from the private sector. Are these specific competences that are not available in the hospital network development plan hospital, or do we want a choice, a shortening of queues, a close proximity to home? If that is clear to us, we can set the procurement criteria. If we really want specific competences from there, that is what needs to be assessed, that is what needs to be valued as a criterion. Question 4: 'As a result of the new procurement, the opportunity for the residents of Lasnamäe and Pirita, who have nearly 150,000 people, to attend a specialist visit. According to Rain Laane, Head of Health Insurance Fund, this is not a problem because he says: 'We have free transport in Tallinn. A person could also look at other health facilities. If you look at other hospitals in Tallinn, there is quite a long waiting list, but in some neighbouring counties you can receive treatment tomorrow or the day after. ' To the question of what to say to a patient in need of treatment in Lasnamägi, who, for example, is very difficult to get to Paldiski or Õismägi because of chronic joint diseases or other problems, Mavivi Parv, board member of the Health Insurance Fund, replied: 'We must all get used to it. " As a result, how do you appreciate the condescending attitude of health fund managers toward the concerns of Pirita and the lasnamäe patients? ' Mr Laane and the other members of the board of the Health Insurance Fund have assured me, both in their words and in their search for solutions, that they are really looking for better solutions for all patients, including the people of Pirita and Lasnamäe. I have no reason to doubt their desire to find solutions. It is also true that it is very important to express themselves clearly and intelligibly when communicating with the public, and to share information and codes of conduct for people, patients, from which they can receive a service. All those who had an agreed appointment after 1 October received their services. Patients need to be assured that they will receive their services even in those specialties or regions where disputes exist. They must also be informed as soon as possible of who will be the service provider in the region and how to book an appointment with them. I also responded to the Central Party's question that there really must be access to medical care near home, including in Lasnamägi, Pirita and Viimsi. This is particularly the case with family doctors, i.e. family nurses and family doctors. New health centres are opened in all three regions, where in addition to family doctors and family nurses, midwives, nurses and physiotherapists will provide services. Some health concerns do not fall within the competence of a family doctor, they cannot be solved by e-consultation and a specialist is needed. That is why we really need to decide whether we look at Tallinn and Harjumaa as one region or whether we appreciate the closeness of our home and agree that in such a large area, specialized medical care should also be provided as certain outpatient visits by city districts. This is a deal we need to make. If we say that closeness to home is a value, then it must also be assessed as a criterion in the next procurement. Question 5: 'In Medicum, the Lasnamäe, as a result of a new procurement, the reception of an ear-nose-throat doctor and gynecologist will no longer take place. The Health Insurance Fund has reported that since 01.12.2018 the East-Tallinn Central Hospital will take over the receptions they pay on the premises of Medicumi Lasnamäe. Doesn't that seem strange to you? Do you not see the similarity between nationalisation in 1940, where power said who and how will act on the property of companies belonging to the citizens of the Republic of Estonia? " Indeed, I see no resemblance to nationalism. I think that fear is in vain. It was a procurement process where a service is purchased on equal terms from private service providers. Now that one or the other provider does not like this result. Whether it seems fair or unfair to us, it was an open process: conditions were the same for everyone. And that volume of service went to the private sector. The specific question is that it did not go to Medicum, but went to another private service provider. That is what is worrying, that is what is debating. The question is, if we still want to provide ear-nose-throat doctor service to the people of Lasnamäe near the home, can we include a hospital network development plan in the hospital to enable this. In this case, a solution was found for Lasnamäe in cooperation with the East Tallinn Central Hospital: doctors will have receptions in the field of ear-nose disease at Lasnamägi. East Tallinn Central Hospital is a public limited company owned by the city and is certainly able to provide high-quality and sustainable specialist medical care to the residents of Lasnamäe. Question 6: "Who is responsible for making such a mess? Who is responsible for the suffering suffered by patients? Do you think that the head of the health insurance fund should continue on their post? Perhaps it's time for them to take a free bus and head for another job? Are you personally taking political responsibility or at least apologising for the serious situation that has arisen? You've been given a chance. ' I'm sorry. I admit that the outcome of the procurement has led to misunderstandings and many have raised concerns. And I'm really sorry that patients didn't know where they were supposed to go on October 1st. They should have been assured that everyone would receive medical care in an agreed place. Specialized medical care continues to be provided, family doctors receive people and hospitals help. The concern that we have something capitalically wrong in the health care system or that there are problems with access to the service should have actually been better taken down from the start. This procurement concerns a small part of specialist medical care, and the disputes concern a small part of this procurement; we did not manage well to explain this reality. However, even if this confusion and the change of service provider affected only a few people, both the management of the health insurance fund and the board could have done better work. The late start of the procurement process was largely due to the lack of agreement reached in spring by the Council of 15 members. There were many improvements, and so the announcement of the tender shifted. As of today, there have been very few disputes, some of which are in court, but this is common in public procurement. Finally, the court decides how to interpret these criteria and who retains the right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U45	Madam Minister, apart from everything else, we have now run out of time for an answer. But if you missed something, there's nothing. You can already see that Jürgen Ligi and Kristen Michal offer you the opportunity to tell you everything you think is necessary in the course of unlimited time resources. Questions for the Minister. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U46	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You can't talk about me, but I'll call myself an anonymous patient, and I'll mention that I have a problem. I got help this summer, but I can't go to the doctor anymore because that doctor lost the contract. I want to ask more generally, because I really don't dare go there anymore. I don't know what it's going to be like, and I'm asking from the point of view of the system, of course. There's one building-up thing in private practice: it takes time, money, know-how. The state created private medicine with its contracts and permits and now kills it. It is clear that their patients were taken away. How do you feel about this situation? What do you really think's gonna happen to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U47	Thank you for your question. I agree that we should actually take into account the strong private clinics established for these historical reasons: what speciality, for example, we have more private receptions, whether in Tallinn, Tartu or anywhere else in the Estonian region, where doctors have decided to work, provide their services and start developing their specific competences. We need to think about how big we should have the role of private service providers and how to proceed. We cannot start with a clean slate, we must consider where these competences are now. I think that, when preparing the next procurement, it is the most important thing to agree on what we want to buy in the private sector. Very clearly, for example, the first thing could be those specific competences that are not in hospitals or not in all hospitals or in all regions of the hospital network. The current confusion and disputes over this procurement also show, in my opinion, very well that competition in healthcare is not working. Building a private clinic is a hard job. Not only the creation of a private clinic, but the provision of all kinds of medical services is a team effort today. This means years of work for this team to work well and provide high-quality care to develop competence, as well as patient confidence in this clinic and doctors. So even service providers, be they in the private sector or hospital development plan, do not really want to revisit these contracts after a few years. The question is whether we can reach an agreement on how we can provide them with this stability in our health care system.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U48	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U49	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Like many press publications, I think it was the fiasco of how such a procurement was conducted. I cannot honestly imagine that in the economy, in construction, in the construction of roads, or in whatever field, phantom performers such as 'The Spectator' have shown themselves to be in the procurement. These documents are also up on the web, and Tavi Eila has put them up. Some have submitted several offers and performed several clinics there, but this is for this purpose. I am actually very pleased that you took this remote to apologize, but I am sorry that the political minister has to apologize for the poor work of the officials. I have the question of what conclusions you draw in the health fund structure, apart from the fact that those who advised people to get used to increased pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U50	Thank you. The case introduced by 'The Spectator' is probably the worst example of this procurement. However, the fact that, under the terms of the procurement, companies are created or workers are moved is not uncommon. This is done everywhere if one of the terms of the procurement is legal compliance, no tax debts and no previous breach of contract. Clean businesses are being made everywhere for this purpose. The question is that we agree on the terms of the procurement. We expect law-abiding behavior. We expect the bidders to be honest. If someone is maliciously presenting documents that are not true, if someone comes to tender with mischief, it is a question of supervision. This does not mean that the procurement criteria have been incorrectly set, that the procurement has been poorly carried out. No matter how we agree on the procurement criteria, no matter how inclusive or transparent the process is, if someone comes maliciously to participate in the procurement with false documents, that does not mean that the criteria are poor. This shows that supervision needs to be addressed. And if the contracted service provider is not actually able to provide the service, has no premises, equipment or health professionals and cannot accept patients, there is a clear basis for terminating the contract. In the same way, the basis is that there are concerns about quality or that the agreed volume of the contract cannot be met. Several bidders also requested a much larger volume than before. If it turns out that they are not actually able to fill this volume, this is exactly the same reason for reviewing the contract. Thus, where a tenderer who has taken part in a procurement submits documentation that is not true or fails to comply with the terms of the contract, the monitoring shall be carried out. This is not a criticism of procurement terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U51	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I think you're pretty good at answering questions. Those evil questions haven't knocked you out. But my question is that you have briefly mentioned a few times here that these procurement terms will be re-examined at the beginning of next year. What exactly are these terms and conditions of the procurement? What are you directing attention to the heads of the health insurance fund and all those who put them together? What's there to heal? I remember specific competences and proximity. But if you put it together complexly, what are these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U53	Thank you. I think there's two sides. One is what we want. Do we want specific competences, closeness to home or a wide range of options, i.e. we do not give a large volume to one, but divide it between several service providers? We need to agree what we want to buy in the private sector, and then there is the question of how we buy. In my opinion, there were two criteria that raised questions this time. One was the previous turnover requirement, which was very low. The Health Insurance Fund didn't want to keep it that low. If the historical turnover requirement is EUR 4000 for outpatients, this means that the market is open to almost every provider. If this threshold were higher, this would significantly limit the number of service providers, i.e. larger and stronger doctors or clinics that have previously provided the same services on a larger scale. So, on the one hand, it was a question of opening up the market to new entrants. Keeping this market open clearly goes back to the question of whether we believe that competition in health is beneficial or whether we really do not want to maximise this competition here. And the second question is the price criterion. This time it was permissible to offer a coefficient of 0,85. In the press, the perception was spread that the Health Insurance Fund required private service providers to provide cheaper services than the hospital network development plan for hospitals, but in fact the opposite was the case: this coefficient of 0.85 was put in place to protect anyone from offering a lower price. The Health Insurance Fund estimated that it would not be possible to provide services of a high quality at a lower price. So that coefficient was put in there to prevent less bids. Now the question of how much the role of the price component must be when choosing between service providers. This is just as important a question as how many of us believe that competition in healthcare works or does not work. When negotiating the terms of procurement in the spring, the Confederation of Employers also stood very strongly as a representative of private service providers for doubling the weight of the price component. I think it was a bad plan: in healthcare, the role of the price component in purchasing services should not be so great. But it was an inclusive process, a very clear request from employers, and so the weight of the price criterion in this procurement was doubled. So when preparing the next call, we have to agree on what we are buying from the private sector, how open this market is and how much we want price competition there or we do not want it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U54	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U55	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, Formally, you have very smooth answers, but in practice, life is still a little more complicated. You yourself admitted that there is a risk here that the winners of the procurement will not be able to complete their centres with specialist doctors, acquire proper medical equipment, or even set up proper rooms. What's the backup plan? People's health is at stake here. And if this problem is critical, who will provide these services? You say that if the procurement conditions are not met, the contracts will be cancelled, etc., but who will provide these services? Moreover, what were the financial guarantees that were required of those involved in the procurement?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U56	Thank you. I'll start at the back. This idea of guarantees was very good for you. One of the things the Board of the Health Insurance Fund has discussed about the next procurement is that when it comes to offering, this guarantee could be higher in order to really keep them out of the way. But now, in the first part of the question, about the situation you described, the concern is that the premises, the doctors, the start of the service. As far as I know, it concerns only one bidder, one bidder, in the case of this allocation of EUR 46 million. He has not begun to provide the service and the dispute is in court. So there is no risk for the patient here because he has not started providing the service. The question is what solution comes from the court and whether it will be ready to start the reception of people and the provision of services within 30 days of the entry into force of the judgment. If he doesn't, that's the basis for the termination of the contract. But yes, we're talking about a case, and that's what the Spectator described. I'm really sorry this happened. This is what we would like to prevent. But the question is in these documents, in the proof that is presented in the tender, on the basis of which it can be assessed. If doctors have been nominated as service providers or their consent is available, how can they assess whether they are sincere or not at the board level of the sickness fund, expressing their willingness to take up the service?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U57	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister, when you answered the previous question, you spoke about what needs to be changed under the terms of the procurement. And it was in the ear that we didn't hear anything about the conditions that protect patients' interests as well. How about this? Now, after changing the terms of the procurement, is there something inside that protects the patient's interests so that there are not only 85% or other percentages? What about their patient's interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U59	Thank you! In fact, all of this, all of the procurement is to make the service available to patients. So much of the criteria that all that concerns quality, competence or availability is in the interests of patients. A separate criterion, such as the patient's assessment or feedback to the service provider, did not really have such an equivalent weight, but it is an interesting idea. However, the patient feedback system should not only be introduced within this procurement and should actually involve all service providers in healthcare, not just private service providers. A very important part of the quality of service is also the patient's assessment of the extent to which he or she has found a solution to his or her health concerns, how he or she assesses this service and what concerns he or she sees. So the patient's feedback in both private and public hospitals is very valuable; this information should be collected more and used more.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U60	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call on behalf of the heirs, but Jürgen Ligi, please! I'm sorry for the delay! I stayed among the heirs to search for a name to get the call right. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I really wasn't among the interviewers, because I've been listening to these things and I've been kind of inconspicuous. That is the difficult issue: we have a public procurement law that came into force, and there is no very single solution at the moment. In addition to this questioning, however, I have listened to these matters a little bit and discussed them with people. I can't talk about my business. But basically, the question for the patient is that if he's had a doctor for years who's been helping him and he's in need of continued treatment, it's gonna create a lot of uncertainty if that doctor loses the contract. I may be able to handle it somehow, but I'm afraid the average patient is really worried. And that could also be a problem for the Minister that he should somehow solve. I think there's something even deeper. We'll find doctors, but one of the most competitive parts of them has built up a private practice. They have established clinics, some have bought equipment and developed competence. It's had a very long view and some rules. Now suddenly the rules change, and suddenly the patients are gone, and suddenly the contract is gone. I don't know how patients decide, but a lot of them aren't solvent without a contract from the Health Insurance Fund. This is one very serious problem that we did not actually have an answer to. These doctors have said that they have been told, either by the Minister or by the Health Insurance Fund, to hold on. I do not know whether it should now be extended to patients, so as to endure, we have nothing to offer you. But these doctors have a cost, they have equipment, they have rooms. What are they doing? I didn't find out today. I'm really worried. I'm familiar with these doctors, but that's not my main motive. I really think that the state gave birth to private medical care, has encouraged them to invest and offered contracts, and at some point says that there is no more agreement, because we can buy your queues. It's no small matter, it's actually annihilation. And if there were to be examples on the side, I don't know that there would be only one of them, where there would be winners who didn't have any investment or really any background, then it would be twice as worried and angry. Well, I don't know, somewhere in the system, there's still a mistake from the beginning when people with no backgrounds have been given licenses. I understand they're given by the Health Service. These licences should then be reviewed. If people, these license holders, have nothing to show for them, but they're winning procurement, it's a disaster. It's actually a procurement disaster. And the other thing is the terms of the procurement. How could it not be written in there? How could you not think this could happen? I will not join in all the compliments that my partymates have expressed here that I, well-answered, did not get peace of mind. I don't want to bully the Minister at all, but I'd like to know what happens to the system. I really didn't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U62	Members of the Riigikogu more... However, there is a wish. Peter Ernits, please! I don't want any more. Then we could press the same button one more time. Thank you. The Minister would also like to participate in the negotiations. Please, Minister of Health and Labour Riina Sikkut!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U63	Thank you, Jürgen Ligi, for this speech. I understand her, I share her concerns. This particular contract and case will also make my heart hurt the most. Indeed, we have doctors who have invested their time and their money for years and who have instructed residents for the last ten years. This is not a normal outpatient service. Fortunately, they have both inpatient care and day care contracts, and both the Health Insurance Fund and I have told them to hold on. We await this judgment: maybe they can also continue to provide outpatient services. But I agree that this is the greatest failure in this procurement. That is why I emphasised specific competences. If there is something in our healthcare system that we know that we cannot get the same value elsewhere, then we could also value it and evaluate it in procurement. There is no need to make these service providers compete on an equal footing with service providers that are not actually able to offer the same competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U64	The time to ask questions to the Minister is over. Thank you, Riina! I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U65	Free mike. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U66	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, A short time ago, the Riigikogu was handed over to the Riigikogu for approval of the migration agreement. I'm not gonna tell you how it was done and whether it's how it works. But in fact, people should be called to Toompea now, as Edgar Savisaar did on May 15, 1990: 'Toomheads are under attack! " Today, not Toompea is attacked, but the Estonian nation state is attacked. I am not going to talk about the background, about the Austrian Presidency of the European Union, which has said 'no', and about many other countries or about the fact that this agreement is obstructing and destroying the sovereignty of our nation state. But I am quoting to you some sentences, some thoughts from the European Manifesto by Verhofstadt, which is a very excellent leecture and where, in fact, ideological guidelines are being given which should be done. 'Let us once again recognise the need for migration. Only with this will Europe be able to maintain its prosperity in the future. [---] The ageing of Europe is a screaming contrast to the rejuvenation of the rest of the world. [---] Educated Arabs, for example, do not have a mass job, but they can watch TV and the Internet live elsewhere. They, too, want work, income, and a normal life. They, too, demand rights and freedoms that are self-evident to us. Europe has no choice because our ageing world needs young people. An open and multicultural society is an inexhaustible source of new ideas. ' I would like to remind you that this is a European manifesto by Verhofstadt. Verhofstadt is, of course, the chairman of the European Parliament's ALDE association, and ALDE unites both the Reform Party and the Centre Party from the Estonian parties. 'Laughter those who treat Europe as a loose community of the old Fatherland. Tear masks from conservatives who actually aim to eradicate democracy. [---] Let us defend multiculturalism, just as we defend universal human rights and democracy. [---] Instead of succumbing to our fears and phobias, we must open our eyes to the riches that multiculturalism offers. [---] Europe is and will remain a colorful bee. [---] United in order to stand up for a good multi-colored European identity. [---] Let us exult that virtually all societies are multicultural. [---] Only a direct attack can save us now. A direct attack on the real cause of the crisis, which means an attack on the unwillingness of nation states to create a truly united and federal Europe. [---] The greatest lie that nation states continue to say to citizens is not acceptable to the fact that nation states are the foundation of the European Union. That the European Union is actually a loose confederation of nation states. [---] The intolerable paradox is that the political decision-making place is still the nation states. [---] We cannot reach the establishment of a world government from a blow, but it must remain our ultimate goal. In tomorrow's world, individual European countries have no role to play. ' So the best solution is a direct attack and the conditions in Estonia... Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U67	There's no extra time in a free microphone. In the next 20 seconds, Peter Ernitsa will have to cancel everything that was left unsaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U68	Verhofstadt said in October: 'Dear Jüri, you will see that there is full approval of you. [---] I have always said that this is perfectly normal, because in Estonia, of course, liberals are always in power. You and your Centre Party in the government and the Reform Party as a leading party in the opposition. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-19_U69	Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4.58 p.m.
