ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the VIIIth plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Marko Mihkelson, please! Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of 89 members of the Riigikogu, to hand over the draft Riigikogu statement 'in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in connection with the aggression in the Kerch Strait'. The 89 signatories of the Riigikogu wish to process this draft application as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U3	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U4	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Six members of the Free Party Group, all of whom have also signed the foreign policy statement presented above, are also in the process of initiating a debate today. The inquiry is to our new good Auditor General regarding the information activities of local governments in the pre-election period. Last week, a long-awaited audit came out in the 'Information of local governments in the municipalities and cities' newsletters'. The use of advertising and communication money was also analysed before the 2015 elections. Yes, it has now been done before the local elections. Here's what to think about by looking at how public money has been used in private political interests. Finally, we cannot rule out some of the local government leaders coming up against such vicious activities even before the Riigikogu elections. So the presentation of this remarkable audit by the Auditor General in the large hall is, in our opinion, justified. In addition, we can again raise what concerns PBK, an interesting newspaper like Stolitsa, Loksa in Tallinn, and ask what recommendations the National Audit Office gives to politicians in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U5	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of today's agenda, a draft resolution was handed over regarding the crisis in Ukraine and the military situation; the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which will be put into action by our group, is directly related to this. In our opinion, given the current situation, where the Russian Federation is constantly escalating the military situation, ignoring international laws and agreements, it is impossible for Estonia to continue the process of ratifying the border agreement between Estonia and Russia. This is why our group is re-initiating a draft decision proposing to the Government of the Republic to complete the ratification process, to withdraw Estonia's signature and, in this context, to open new negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U7	As representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U8	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates four draft laws and submits two draft resolutions of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu in the proceedings of the draft law by the Minister of the Interior, Katri Raik. Secondly, the draft law amending the Insurance Activities Act and the Law of Obligations Act. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities, the Act on Prevention and Resolution of the Financial Crisis and other laws. Fifthly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste when dealing with these four drafts in the Riigikogu. Sixthly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled The Fundamentals of Legislative Policy until 2030. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U9	Dear Riigikogu, I have adopted seven drafts, one inquiry and one statement. We will continue to operate under the Home and Working Procedures Act. But for now, honourable Riigikogu, the chairman's break is three minutes. We'll proceed at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U10	Honourable Riigikogu! The Executive Board of the Riigikogu adopted a draft of 89 members of the Riigikogu's statement "in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in connection with the aggression in the Strait of Kerch' and appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs as the leading committee. The Bureau decided that the deadline for tabling amendments would be 15.40 p.m. on 3 December. Amendments may be tabled only by political groups and committees. At the same time, the Bureau decided to convene an additional meeting today, beginning at 5 p.m. on 3 December. On the agenda is the first reading of the draft 766 in support of the Riigikogu's declaration 'in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in connection with the aggression in the Kerch Strait'. The text of the application and the explanatory memorandum shall be made available to the members of the Riigikogu as soon as possible and the procedural documents of the commission at the latest by the beginning of the discussion of the draft application. Incoming check, please! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. I shall vote on the agenda for the 10th working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, one against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U11	Free mike. Thank you. I'll see you at 5:00. Closure of the sitting at 3.13 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U12	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the additional session of the VIIIth plenary session, which I have convened on the basis of § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Riigikogu Board on 3 December inclusive and the prepared agenda of the Management Board. First of all, who wants to hand over drafts and inquiries? That's not what you want. Honourable Riigikogu, please check your presence! Currently 72 members of the Riigikogu are present. Paragraph 55 (1) of the Rules of Procedure Act tells us that the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved at the beginning of the sitting. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the supplementary sitting of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu on 3 December. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U13	We will begin the processing of draft 766 of the declaration by 89 members of the Riigikogu in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in connection with the aggression in the Kerch Strait. First reading. The initiators' waitress is Marko Mihkelson, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U14	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Before I give you more details about the draft of the declaration "In support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in connection with the aggression in the Kerch Strait," which was initiated by 89 members of the Riigikogu, I will go back to history for a moment and put this event in a broader context. The fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the collapse of the Soviet Union two years later, unfortunately, did not mean that Russia was moving irreversibly towards the development of a major state of democracy and respect for the rule of law. The many words referred to by Russian President Vladimir Putin that the collapse of the Soviet Union was the biggest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century are not just his own conviction. Boris Yeltsin, the predecessor of Putin, did not speak so clearly, but the armed forces he led spoke. As early as autumn 1991, the Kremlin declared the reintegration of the former Russian Empire as one of its foreign policy priorities. Following a step, the former territories of the Empire have occupied territories or sparked ethnic conflicts in order to create prerequisites for restoring Russia's influence or also for shifting borders, as we have seen directly in Crimea and indirectly in Abkhazia, South Ossetia and Transnistria. It is eloquent that Russia has not been very successful in attracting its neighbours, either by words or by example, but rather by force. From Moldova and Chechnya to Georgia and Ukraine, the restoration of the empire has claimed tens of thousands of victims. In this light, the act of aggression in the Strait of Kerch is yet another step by Russia, aimed in particular at achieving full control of the Sea of Azov while at the same time testing the unity of the Western countries and the stability of the transatlantic security area. For each of these steps, Russia has tried to quickly create a suitable and western narrative. What matters to the Kremlin is not the trimmings of international law, but how convincing their own story is. This time, the Russian leadership is trying to give the impression that Ukrainian navy troops were sent on a specific mission to provoke an incident that would give President Petro Poroshenko a pretext for delaying the planned presidential elections at the end of March due to martial law. Ukraine's domestic policy is an undoubtedly important factor, but all independently confirmed facts speak the opposite language. Russia acted deliberately provocatively in the Kerch Strait and carried out an act of aggression against a sovereign neighbouring country, both in conflict with international law and with its own laws. The Kremlin is also trying to use the situation to cover up the scale of the aggression lasting more than four years and the fact that the Crimean Peninsula illegally annexed in March 2014 is an integral part of the Ukrainian State under international law. During November alone, nine Ukrainian soldiers died in Eastern Ukraine defending their homelands. As we heard last weekend, President Putin promised to continue the war against Ukraine until the official Kiev essentially gave up on the aspirations of the European Union and NATO. However, the most serious lesson for us in the Kerch Strait of aggression is the slow and obviously too weak joint reaction of the West. This is critical in a situation where the aggressor has achieved a clear head start both in the military-tactical field and in the creation of a narrative. It is therefore important that Ukrainian friends and supporters respond as coherently and forcefully as possible to the act of aggression committed. Ladies and gentlemen, On Monday, 26 November, an extraordinary joint meeting of the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee and the National Defence Committee took place, where representatives of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence gave us a comprehensive overview of what happened in the Strait of Kerch. Members of the committees expressed their wish to initiate a draft statement by members of the Riigikogu in support of Ukraine. In cooperation with all the members of the six political groups and non-attached delegates, the text of this draft statement, which was signed by 89 delegates, was prepared by Wednesday. The draft statement of the Riigikogu condemns the aggression of the armed forces of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, which resulted in the seizure on 25 November of three vessels belonging to the Ukrainian Navy in the Kerch Strait in breach of international law and the illegal arrest of 24 members of the crew. In the draft statement, the Riigikogu immediately invites Russia to release 24 Ukrainian marines and busy vessels towed to the port of Kerch and allow them free access to Ukrainian ports. It is important to recall here that some 70 Ukrainian political prisoners are detained in Russian prisons. With this act of aggression, Russia further strained relations between Ukraine and Russia and aggravated the security situation throughout the Black Sea region. Russia's actions are a direct violation of the principles set out in Article 2 of the Charter of the United Nations, according to which UN members refrain from threatening with force or using force in their international relations against the territorial integrity and political independence of other countries. Following the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, Russia has taken control of the Kerch Strait connecting the Black Sea and the Azov Sea, in violation of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, and has restricted the right of vessels from other countries, including Ukrainian vessels, to move freely through it. Following the completion of the illegal Kerch Bridge under international law in spring of this year, between April and November 2018, the Russian border guard has detained a total of 232 cargo vessels from different countries in the Kerch Strait and Azov Sea and carried out illegal searches. The draft Riigikogu statement calls on all countries to support Ukraine in protecting its territorial integrity and not to recognise the illegal annexation of Crimea. The initiators of the statement also take the view that, in the current situation, sanctions against Russia should continue to be imposed and extended. We expect the December European Council this year to extend the restrictive measures imposed by the European Union on 31 July 2014 in relation to Russia's actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine. The Riigikogu also considers it important to extend the restrictive measures imposed on 17 March 2014 in respect of actions undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. I would remind you that the Riigikogu has made statements in the past in support of Ukraine. The statement of 5 March 2014 deplored Russia's actions which are contrary to international law, including the UN Charter, the Helsinki Final Act, the Budapest Memorandum and bilateral agreements between Ukraine and Russia. The Riigikogu continues to urge the European Union and NATO Member States to do their utmost to contribute to Ukraine's democratic, political, economic and social reforms. The initiators of the Riigikogu statement are convinced that the only solution for lasting peace is the end of Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to support the 89 draft statements initiated by members of the Riigikogu in support of Ukraine and thereby express condemnation of the gross violation of international law by the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U15	Questions for the initiator. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U16	Thank you, honourable waitress, and thank you very much to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for making such a statement before the Riigikogu. It's a little sad that not all 101 members have signed it yet, but let's hope everyone votes for it. I would like to ask what assistance and support the European countries and the so-called democratic Western world have provided to Ukraine by now. Unfortunately, it seems that the world is quite passive. I have the impression that our own Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are also unexpectedly passive. Perhaps we should show more activity and greater support for our Ukrainian friends.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U17	Thank you, good questioner! Over the years when Ukraine has been the victim of Russia's aggression since 2014, Estonia has devoted quite a lot of attention to this problem and has also provided real support for Ukraine. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs visited Eastern Ukraine in September of this year. We were also close to the front line. The main reason we did this was above all the desire to see the real implementation of the aid granted by Estonia to Ukraine in real life. In towns or villages such as Krasnogorivka or Luganske, which are directly on the front line and where people who have wanted to stay in their homes have either been damaged by houses or apartments in the attacks, Estonia has been one of the countries that, above all, under the UN aid programmes, has helped people to continue to live a lifeable life in this very difficult situation. I think that today's draft statement by the Riigikogu, which has an unprecedented number of initiators, I do not remember from the last few decades at least that any draft statement initiated by members of the Riigikogu would have that many supporters, 89 representing all political groups and also non-groups ambassadors, in fact, it is precisely the long-term consistency of Estonian foreign policy on a matter which is extremely important for our security and European security in general. I hope that this vote today will give as many votes of support as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U18	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U19	Thank you. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has certainly received an overview of what is, I do not know, a picture of similar initiatives being taken by Western allies or in Europe. I would also ask for information that was debated when this text was drafted, which are the nuances that are critical.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U20	Thank you. I do not have precise information on whether Parliament has already made similar statements in one of our partner countries in the European Union. I know that our closest allies, our neighbours in the Baltic States and Poland are moving in this direction. It is possible that this issue will be raised elsewhere in the form of such statements, but precisely as I said in my introductory speech, one perhaps very important reason why this statement is before us today and why we want to support it at the level of the Riigikogu is also a desire to set an example for our fellow Members in Europe, to show that Ukraine needs support, that it needs support from both parliaments and Ukrainian friends in the form of governments. What we did in preparing the text of this statement is also somewhat unprecedented, at least I do not remember this. We had representatives from all the political groups in the drafting of the text, and we had a very thorough debate on what this wording could be like. Perhaps the most sensitive places, particularly in the opinion of the representatives of the Centre Party Group, were issues concerning sanctions or the extension of sanctions, as well as the extent to which the Ukrainian side should be responsible for this situation. I think that this wording, which is now finally before us and to which 89 members of the Riigikogu have joined, shows very clearly what Estonia's position should be on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U21	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U22	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress, I would also like to thank you for this work and thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the speed at which this statement arrived and Estonia should not be embarrassed that we are silent in a place where we really should not remain silent. The question is rather because not everyone has signed it. Do you not think that after Putin said that there would be a war in Ukraine as long as the government had been changed, it would be time for everyone in Estonia and elsewhere in the world to open their eyes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U23	Thank you. I fully agree that this is a very and very important issue, a very important issue not only for Ukraine. However, as we can see from yet another statement by Russia today, where Volodin, President of the State Duma, says that we are approaching a major war, any support from those who consider international law to be important in regulating relations between countries, and it is important that the violations of international law, which we have seen for years, from the events in Georgia to the last incident in the Strait of Kerch, be condemned very clearly and unambiguously. This is, of course, the question of the conscience of every ambassador, and also the question of the conscience of the group, in a situation where the developments that are taking place in Ukraine and around Ukraine cannot, or may not, affect our security in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U24	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! When we discussed this text, we thought that maybe today the situation has changed and the Commission should improve the wording in one place a little. This is the second sentence in which we stress that Ukrainian ships must be released without delay with seafarers and allow them to move to Ukrainian ports without hindrance. This has not happened and, unfortunately, there is no need to change this wording. Are there more recent data on the circumstances in which these sailors are present and on their fate in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U26	Thank you for that question. Indeed, as I mentioned, the text of the draft statement was completed last week on Wednesday, and we thought that it would be possible to introduce changes in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Monday, which is today, as the situation changes. Indeed, as is well known, no amendments to this draft were received by the deadline. The Commission also had no need to amend the draft text as the situation has not changed. As I mentioned, Ukrainian sailors are in detention in Moscow at the FSB, a notorious prison in Lefortovo. As has been seen in the media, they have been influenced to testify against their country, trying to get explanations from them as if it were a deliberate provocation against Russia. However, as I mentioned earlier, on the basis of data from several independent international research groups, particularly Bellingcat (this study group is also very well known for having published in detail, in detail, how a Malaysian passenger plane over Eastern Ukraine was shot down in the summer of 2014) it is evident that Ukrainian ships were attacked in international waters, Ukrainian marines have been illegally arrested and imprisoned in Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U27	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U28	Thank you. I too join all those who have recognised the Committee on Foreign Affairs for a swift response. I am absolutely sure that this will also be noticed in Ukraine. Both President Poroshenko and Prime Minister Groisman and, before him, Prime Minister Yatsenjuk have repeatedly sent his thanks to Estonia for the fact that Estonia has always stood up for Ukraine and always had a very strong supporter of Ukraine on these issues and, of course, for a reason. Of course, it will also be noted in Ukraine if a large number of members of a party with a very important responsibility do not vote in favour of this statement, but let it be what it is like. A few years ago, I was able to witness directly on the ground how Vladimir Putin drove the pot to the European leaders, saying that what is really happening in Crimea is the will of the people. Now, however, he literally threatened to continue the war. Can it be said that the masks have actually fallen permanently and openly and that no one should have any more illusions about who attacked Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U29	Thank you for that question. There are also examples in history of such situations. We remember that in August 2008, when the Riigikogu adopted a statement in support of Georgia, it was also Moscow's official rhetoric to protect its citizens in Tshinval, throughout South Ossetia, also in Abkhazia. It didn't take too long to say how things really are. Both then President Medvedev and Prime Minister Putin said publicly in 2010 that the only objective of aggression against Georgia was to prevent the possible enlargement of NATO to the South Caucasus. Similarly, we have seen in the past four and a half years how Russia's official rhetoric has changed. I think the development of the last few days suggests that the last masks are also falling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U30	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U31	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Marko! There have been many thanks, but there have never been few. I'm sure speed is important in this situation. Maybe we could have been faster, but we had a week off, and it certainly made things worse. This is undoubtedly a gross violation of international law. There is no doubt that in fact Ukraine's sovereignty was attacked by attacking a flagship or attacking flags. But my question, which occurred when I read this text, is two parts. Firstly, did it make sense to refer to international law when drafting the text? There is no direct indication here that international law has been violated. Secondly, did the Committee on Foreign Affairs also receive any opinion or input or knowledge from the Government of the Republic about this statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U32	Thank you. The so-called explanation of the text of the application can be found in the explanatory memorandum. There are very specific references to both the UN Charter and the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea since 1982, as well as to the agreement on maritime traffic between Ukraine and Russia since 2003. So, in a sense, this statement, as I mentioned earlier, is logical in relation to the statement adopted by the Riigikogu on 5 March 2014, shortly after the occupation of Crimea by the Russian Federation. As far as consulting the government is concerned, there was no immediate need for this in this case, because here the authors of the text had a very clear and unambiguous understanding which the Riigikogu, as the parliament of the Republic of Estonia, needed to emphasise in its statement. In fact, it coincides with the positions expressed in various ways by the members of the government and the President of the Republic in a large framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U33	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U34	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress, good Marko! You, me and Kerd have no problems supporting Ukraine; we can always do this now. But I'm looking at the number of questions that were here right now. People may have been misunderstandings or looking for themselves. Can you tell me how long it took you to convince the Reform Party Group that we are on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U35	Thank you. Good Tarmo, all members of the Reform Party have signed the draft statement as initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U36	No more questions for the waitress. The rapporteur for the Commission is Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U37	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The idea of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs to draw up a statement in support of Ukraine was developed during the extraordinary joint session of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs and the National Defence Committee on Monday 26 November, including. This meeting was chaired by two committee presidents, Marko Mihkelson and Hannes Hanso, and attended the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by Keit-Pentus Rosimannus, Andres Herkel, Anne Sulling, Barbi Pilvre, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Nutt, Oudekki Loone, Dmitri Dmitriev, who replaced Vladimir Velman, as well as advisers. Ain Lutsepp, Anneli Ott, Johannes Kert, Karin Tammemägi, Madis Milling, Margus Tsahkna, Tanel Talve, who was an alternate member of Marianne Mikko, and also advisers participated in the National Defence Committee. Valdo Randpere was absent from the Foreign Affairs Committee and Mart Helme, Ants Laaneots and Helir-Valdor Seeder from the National Defence Committee. The Estonian Ambassador to Ukraine, Gert Antsu, had been invited to this meeting by video conference, and the Deputy Secretary-General of Defence of the Ministry of Defence Meelis Oidsalu and the representative of the Ministry of Defence and the Director General of the Political Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Lembit Uibo, were present. During this debate, the situation in Ukraine was reported by Gert Antsu, Lembit Uibo and also by Meelis Oidsalu. At this session, both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the National Defence Committee expressed their support for the proposal to draft the Riigikogu statement 'in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity'. This decision was taken in a consensual manner. It was also proposed that the political groups appoint their representatives, who would meet a day later, to draft a statement on 27 November. The following members of the Riigikogu expressed their consensus: Marko Mihkelson, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Andres Herkel, Anne Sulling, Barbi Pilvre, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Nutt, Oudekki Loone and Dmitri Dmitriev, and Hannes Hanso, Ain Lutsepp, Anneli Ott, Johannes Kert, Karin Tammemägi, Madis Milling, Margus Tsahkna and Tanel Talve. On 27 November, representatives of the political groups met to start drafting the draft. Andres Herkel, Oudekki Loone, Marko Mihkelson, Marianne Mikko, Mart Nutt and Henn Põlluaas were present. I can say that it was a collective job to draw up this statement, and everyone contributed to the preparation of this statement, including Mart Nutt, who is in front of you. When assessing how this statement was finally prepared, it seems to me that it received very broad support from the Riigikogu, which is clearly shown by the 89 signatures that have been given to the statement. On 28 November, the collection of signatures began, and on 3 December 89 members of the Riigikogu submitted an application to the proceedings to support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine in connection with the aggression in the Strait of Kerch. The Bureau adopted this draft, appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs as the lead committee and fixed the deadline for the submission of amendments at 3.40 p.m. on 3 December 2018. The Committee on Foreign Affairs met on 3 December when it was recognised that no amendments had been tabled by the deadline. In consensus, it was decided to appoint Mart Nutt as rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, including Marko Mihkelson, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Anne Sulling, Barbi Pilvre, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Nutt and Valdo Randpere. Therefore, the Commission has made its proposals and submitted this application to the Riigikogu's supplementary sitting for discussion. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U38	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Mart Nutt! I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, on behalf of the Free Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Members of the Free Party Group will undoubtedly support this draft and will also be among its initiators. It is our duty to be a guide here. This statement also has a very clear consistent link with the statement adopted by the previous Riigikogu on 5 March 2014, the title of which is partly identical: 'in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity'. A specific case of aggression in the Strait of Kerch was now added. Indeed, we are of the opinion that 'aggression' is correct and adequate to describe what happened. This process must certainly be commended. This was done in a way that a draft statement from the Riigikogu should arise. All the political groups had the opportunity to have a say, and everyone took the opportunity. I dare say that the proportion of disagreements was still very low and everyone was united by the desire to make a statement on this matter as soon as possible. There can certainly be consistency with the reactions of the Riigikogu, which were in connection with the events in Georgia in August 2008, but in fact before it was seen that tensions were building up and the situation was destabilising. In 2008, the Riigikogu made two statements about Georgia. It may go further back to a number of positions on human rights violations in Chechnya, for example. What is happening in the world, what is this sleepy reaction, and what are the world's countries up to? This is a kind of tragic development. Some may be tired of this Ukrainian problem. The UK has nailed its attention to Brexit, absolutely inevitably, there are major disturbances in France, they started with increased excise duties on fuel, but they are linked to reforms, Germany has linked the issue of the migration framework, whether it is legally binding or not, Estonia and other smaller countries have also been linked to the issue, and the United States has also been captivated by internal problems. The European Union is talking about the formation of a European army. Against this background, indeed, one Sunday, when no one was expecting it, Russia had such an action that, in essence, has closed the Sea of Azov and is very threatening in terms of the future development of events. Obviously, since the reactions at international level have still not been so strong, all the further rhetoric that the Chairman of the Commission, Mr Mihkelson, has already pointed out as representative of the initiators, can be deduced until everything continues, the pressure continues, the war will essentially continue until Ukraine gives up its efforts on the European Union and NATO. In essence, this is a call for a change of management in the country. All these statements referring to the approaching war from different levels are something that needs to be responded to. At this point, one also turned out to be the whole development that has been linked to Nord Stream 2 for years. In essence, this is the geopolitical isolation of Ukraine's gas supplies, with which European countries, particularly Germany, have unfortunately gone along and have not been able to form a common front here. So once again: we support this statement. It is quite welcome that the Estonian Riigikogu is a pioneer here in some ways, but it is very important that other countries, other parliaments and international organisations come quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U40	On behalf of the Group of the Middle Party of Enn Front. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U41	Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group supports the peaceful settlement of the burning situation in Kerch Strait. We support the objective of the statement that we are discussing today, which calls on the international community to stand up for Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and to join the European Union and NATO's call to calm the situation. Our group discussed the statement of the Riigikogu today and found that peace in the region must be a common goal for all parties. The escalation of tensions between the parties is worrying. The purpose of the Riigikogu is to reaffirm our support for the territorial sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine today and in the future. The President of Estonia, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have given their assessments, and the role of Parliament in making substantive contributions to foreign affairs is to be welcomed. The most important thing is the safe arrival of detained seafarers at home, and this is emphasised by the Riigikogu in its statement. We call for respect for the Asov Sea Sharing Agreement and hope that further agreements and balanced diplomacy will be ruled out by such extremely dangerous conflicts in the future. In view of the upcoming presidential elections, Ukraine must be encouraged and supported in the democratic path chosen. The end of sanctions cannot be considered at the December European Council. At the same time, referring to both the Head of Foreign Policy of the European Union, Federica Mogherin, and several European Heads of State, our group stated that no further sanctions had been agreed internationally, which is why the call made in the statement of the Riigikogu raised questions about the extension of sanctions. The oppressive majority of the Centre Party Group supports the statement. Although we do not have a consensus on the comprehensive wording of the statement, no member of the group will vote against the statement because the call for the resolution of tensions in the region is welcome and essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U42	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U43	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear colleagues! The aggression in the Sea of Azov a week ago is litmus paper not only for international law, for the European Union or NATO, but also for ourselves. The great power with which we have shared a common destiny in the Soviet Union needs our moral support. The incident in Kerch Strait, during which three Ukrainian naval vessels were captured by Russia, is anything but an innocent incident. We in Estonia are not child-minded to consider aggression to be anything but aggression. More than four and a half years have passed since the annexation of Crimea. The world is quietly accustomed to the fact that Crimea has become a part of Russia. It has been used to the fact that battles are taking place in the eastern part of Ukraine. It is true that declarations are made and the integrity of Ukraine is underlined in the international arena and that the international community is calling for the immediate surrender of Crimea from Russia to Ukraine, as is the immediate cessation of military activities in Eastern Ukraine. However, let us also talk about some specific works. One tangible international act that is a pain in the eyes of Russia is the decision of the Human Rights Organisation, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, to take the right to vote from Russia. This means that Russia will be able to participate in the parliamentary assembly of 47 organisations with Member States, but it will no longer be entitled to make decisions after annexation of Crimea. In response, the Russian delegation left ENPA, little of which, for a year and a half, Russia has not paid the membership fee either. If Russia has not paid its debt by June next year, the human rights organisation may show the Council of Europe the door to Russia. A stronger weapon to tame aggressive Russia is, of course, economic sanctions. International law must apply to all countries of the world, including the Russian Federation. If international rules are not respected, it is understandable that the perpetuator may have to pay for it. This economic lever has worked pretty well. At the same time, it cannot be denied that, time and again, the countries of the southern wing of Europe have had thoughts of mitigating or even withdrawing sanctions against Russia. However, the majority of countries that are simultaneously Member States of the European Union and NATO want to continue or strengthen economic sanctions. On the other hand, Ukraine has not received rapid and vigorous support once again during this week. I'm very sad about that. It gets the impression that Ukraine has been left quite alone. This is an alarm, and we in Estonia must not accept it. Therefore, today, on 3 December, we members of the Riigikogu are discussing a political statement regarding the crisis at the Sea of Azov. As has been heard on this floor, the Riigikogu does not make political statements too often, but we have already done so in relation to Ukraine. In spring 2014, immediately after the annexation of Crimea, we made a strong and unanimous statement, as well as in 2008 as a sign of solidarity with Georgia. Today, we want to cross down our value-based foreign policy once again and stand by extending the sanctions against the aggressor. Estonia is one of the largest spokespersons in Ukraine on the international stage, both at national and individual level. Last thought. My smartphone comes every day with alarming reports from Volodymyr in Ukraine. Ariev, the head of the ENPA delegation to Ukraine, does not call for help, but he does share information about what is happening in the Kerch Strait, he asks for it to be disseminated. This information, by the way... A few more seconds, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U44	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U45	... comes from western sources and is in English. I have informed Mr Ariev that we are discussing a statement in Parliament today in support of Ukraine and that we want to adopt it. He was already very, very grateful. Thus, the Social Democrats unanimously support the Riigikogu statement 'in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in connection with the aggression in the Kerch Strait'. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U46	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group also highlights the consensus that has arisen in this Chamber by signing this paper. But, of course, we must look at what is behind this consensus. In this hall, part of it also reached the verbatim, but not everyone got it, the most angry speech didn't get it. It's kind of ironed on the subject that we're talking so long about it that there's something nicer to do to go home. Think, Fatherland, if these remarks were correct. We certainly would not want to tie you as a party with such indifference to foreign policy, but on the surface of individuals, too, such a thing should be avoided. Russia's aggressiveness has never been overrated; it has always been rather underestimated. This was done after Georgia, even after Crimea, and it is also being tended to do so today, which is extremely unfortunate. Europe has been very sleepy and all reactions have been well-hungry, which is why it is particularly valuable that our Parliament is still operating. Despite the absence of hearings for a week, this statement has reached some stage. I'm sorry everyone who needs to go to the store tonight, we haven't really discussed this. We're not doing the self-asking, anti-opinion procedure here, just like the corner said. No, we really want to understand how this text came about, what these disputes were and what the international background is. The Riigikogu is not operationally familiar with everything. The fact is that we are not just talking about some kind of Kerch here, we are talking about whether the countries that are in the neighbourhood of Russia have rights and sovereignty at all. Several cases show that Russia disagrees with this. Russia has taken the right to be simply abnormal. If he bites or freezes a piece of someone in his neighborhood, he points to some provocation and talks a lot about tension, their relaxation and their security that way, but these tensions are self-inflicted. Indeed, this time the masks are down in the sense that for the first time the Russian regular forces publicly attacked their neighbours. The distinguishing marks on the uniforms will no longer be taken away; the military people on vacation and the citizens' initiative will no longer be spoken of, but will go and be shot. The ships of another country are being shot, captured, and people are being let down. And then they say you know it won't end until the government is replaced. So we are not talking about Kerch, we are talking about whether Russia's neighbourhood can be sovereign. I think that all members of the Riigikogu should be present here and vote in favour so that they can. This also applies to the Estonian state. It was interesting to find out, just on behalf of this day, in the last few hours, that what exactly was debated in the Commission. Unfortunately, the representative of the Central Party Group had to admit that there was a debate about whether additional sanctions were needed, and it was also said in the Commission that it should be referred to as the responsibility of both parties. That is the weakest aspect of the text, there is a phrase left in it with a call to relax tensions and calm the situation. I'm sorry! If a bigger one beats a smaller one, do you say, "Listen, both sides, be responsible and let's put these tensions down now?" It's not like that. There's been a very clear attack on one side of the other more brutally and openly than ever. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U48	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U49	That is exactly how this text should have been formulated. But perhaps it was done for a greater consensus. 89 signatures are in any case a very good result, so we can still be satisfied with the result. All in all, things are said here. It would very much hope that all Western countries will do this gradually, and that there will still be discussions on the tightening of sanctions and no longer talk about Ukraine's own guilt. They wanted to write in this text, too, to say badly about the Ukrainians, but they're still guilty when they're working on them. Let us look at this final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U50	Mart Nutt on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U51	Once again, Mr President, honourable Members of the Riigikogu! International law works if countries respect its principles. Occupation and annexation are not among the activities that international law would accept. However, Russia has already committed repeated violations of international law and its principles. Since 2014, Ukraine has been the victim of Russia's aggression. First, Crimea was annexed, then military action was launched in Eastern Ukraine, and now Russia has committed another act of aggression, occupying Ukrainian vessels at the Sea of Asov, which, according to the agreement between Russia and Ukraine, has opened up to the ships of both countries, and imprisoning Ukrainian sailors. This act reveals Russia's desire to push Ukraine out of the Azov Sea and to block Ukrainian ports. How far Russia intends to go in Ukraine we do not know, but it is clear that it is only by strong international support that it can stop the aggressor. Ukraine urgently needs this support at the moment. It is worth recognising that the members of the Estonian Riigikogu, as well as the government, are at the forefront of Ukrainian supporters, and it is regrettable that many countries have been silent or passive on this issue. This statement is an important act in support of the Ukrainian people and the state. The Isamaa Group supports the adoption of the statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U52	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U53	I am very pleased that the Riigikogu has made this statement and that all the political groups in the Riigikogu agree on its necessity and content. This is an extremely important case and a document because we know that Russia's mask has finally fallen. We have not, most of us have never had any doubt about who the aggressor is. This is also clearly stated in our statement. Russia has so far rejected it, but it has now finally been publicly recognised that there is a war going on between Russia and Ukraine, a war going on in the middle of Europe. If we look at the responses to aggression, blatant and insolent violent aggression against Ukraine that has happened more than a week ago, it is unfortunate that, against this background, most European countries, as well as the European Union, have been extremely toothless, indecisive to condemn the aggressor and to take any measures to control him. The Austrian Presidency of the European Union proposed to tighten up sanctions. The same Austria, which the rest of the so-called liberal democracies accuse of right-wing populism, proposed. And who is most opposed to this proposal? Germany and France, as well as a number of other countries. It's really embarrassing. Against this background, our statement stands out quite clearly and vividly to knock on the conscience of the rest of the world. Estonia has done well in this regard. We have supported Georgia, against which Russia initiated aggression, we have also stood up for Ukraine in the past, we have condemned both the aggression in Eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea, we have condemned all the aggressions against sovereign states and the violation of their territorial integrity. But against ourselves, we are not so honest and frank. On the basis of the annexation of Crimea, a direct parallel can be drawn here in Estonia. Our areas beyond Narva and Petseri County are equally occupied and illegally annexed by Russia. The only difference with Crimea is time, we had it decades earlier, that's all the difference. So we should also be consensual about this, and agree that the violation of Estonia's territorial integrity should be brought to an end. Unfortunately, there are only two parties in this hall who stand for it: the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Fatherland. I hope that this draft, which was tabled again by the EKRE today, will also be positively adopted by other parties in the light of the events in Ukraine, and we dare to stand up not only for others but also for ourselves. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U54	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U55	It is quite clear that sanctions to date are not sufficient, they have not been able to hold back Russia's aggressive behaviour, that it spits on international law and international agreements. Therefore, we must continue to be one of those who, on the front row, call for more sanctions to be imposed, who calls for real steps to be taken against the aggressor. We know very well that Russia is actually testing the unity and courage of the West, as well as NATO. If what happened in the Kerch Strait does not receive a worthy response from other parts of the world, then it is only a matter of time before the validity of Article 5 of NATO and the unity of the Western countries in our Baltic region can be tested. That's why we can't close our eyes. I am very pleased that this statement reveals the unity and consensus of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia that it is necessary to oppose the aggressor and show us our firm position. The Estonian Conservative People's Party and its Group unanimously support the condemnation of Russian aggression. We also call on all other countries to make similar statements and not only make statements, but we also call for real steps to be taken to end war and violence in Europe and elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-03_U56	I'm closing the negotiations. Mr Riigikogu, there were no amendments to the draft 766. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft 766 of the 89 Riigikogu statements submitted by members of the Riigikogu in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in connection with the aggression in the Kerch Strait. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of receiving the application, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The statement has been accepted. Slava Ukrainiani! Closure of the sitting at 6 p.m.
