ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 11th working week. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and the enquiries. Marko Pomerants, please! [[It's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we could just keep it down in the hall a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U2	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Kadrina's proverb says what's bad, it's again. I will hand over the draft law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the Riigikogu, I represent the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when dealing with the draft. That's the story.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board decides on this further procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. And to be operational, the board is about to decide. I'll take the manager's break for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna finish the chairman's break four minutes early, because there's no need for more time. Let's go to the messages. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like peace in the Chamber. Thank you! The Board of the Riigikogu adopted the draft law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act initiated on 13 December of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and appointed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as the leading committee. Incoming check, please! 76 members of the Riigikogu are present, 25 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U5	We are going to the Thursday agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act (709 SE) initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Hanno Pevkuri, Member of the Riigikogu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is not the first time before us, but unlike some other drafts, this bill is settled. Yesterday Parliament had to show extremely flexible action. Last night, the Committee on Monetary Affairs met in this corner of the Chamber following the finding of an error in the bill, and this morning the Board of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs acted more flexibly to correct the error in the Personal Data Protection Act. This draft, however, is nothing other than correcting an old, historic mistake and with the aim of keeping Estonians connected with Estonia. The question of citizenship is, of course, a question that always creates passion ♪ there is no doubt about it. However, we must not tell the citizens of our country that you are not welcome in this country. The citizens of the Republic of Estonia who are born and have the constitutional right to Estonian citizenship need not one day stand before the choice of whether to give up the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia and to put their children before it. It is not ethical, it is neither legally justified nor in any way compatible with the spirit of the Constitution. But this is the situation right now. The citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth have gone to a wide world, they have children there who are also citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth, but one day they must tell their children that they must choose whether to be a father or a mother's country of nationality. It is completely unethical to propose such a choice, and it is completely unethical to say in this Chamber that we will not solve this issue. It is up to us to discuss this problem and find a solution to it. This solution exists on this table: it is an amendment to the Citizenship Act. One of the clear objectives of the draft is that the post-natal status of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia should be emphasised once again: the post-natal status of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia would also be granted the right of second citizenship if they had the right under the law of the country of residence. But, of course, citizenship is the decision of the state, the state decides who and how to give it to. That is why there are restrictions in the draft that require citizenship at birth and exclude certain countries. I was very strange yesterday to read the position of the Minister of Justice who said that the Abkhazian problem had been solved. Well, it isn't! The problem of Abkhazian Estonians has not been solved by the pure false minister of justice on the air of Postimees and thereafter on-line. The story of the Minister of Justice is that now there will be a very large number of Russian citizens once again a pure lie! According to this bill, it won't come. The draft talks about the citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth and also talks about a group of states for which we consider it possible to allow double citizenship. These countries are our partners and allies. I really do not understand why anyone could oppose this bill. We are talking about humanity, we are talking about having Estonia's own people, many of whom have already returned to Estonia with their families. In the case of these families, one spouse is not a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, but their children are. We put these people on the table; they must tell their children that they may not remain Estonian citizens. There's 1.3 million of us. The message given to every Estonian citizen that he or she is not welcome in Estonian citizenship is the wrong message. Our task in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu should be to raise the number of Estonian citizens, not to reduce them. We must also consider those who have gone away from their homeland. They must also know that they are always welcome at home. They also need to know that the state does not force them to choose whether you are a national of one country or another. And that is why this bill should be supported. I will come back to the positions of the Minister of Justice. Yes, he said that we had a problem with certain criminals so that certain crimes could be taken away from citizenship. We agree with this and we have added it to the draft provision. We have amended the draft and we have clearly noted that this problem needs to be resolved in the same way. Now I really do not see the possibility that Parliament will once again say no to Estonia's own people. All of you who press today or want to press the red button, think that you are pressing the red button for Estonia's own people. You press the red button to say 'no' to Estonian citizens who are away from Estonia, and to Estonian citizens who have returned to Estonia, but in their family not all citizens of the Republic of Estonia, some may be a citizen of the United States, some may be a Belgian citizen. This isn't the way. And this proposal is not an emotional flash of thought. This is a substantive issue that Parliament could solve today. We still have time to make this change before 3 March. It is within the power of this Parliament to show ourselves as a statesman to the people of Estonia both here in the country and to those who are outside that, yes, we can overcome any political agreements and think about how Estonia's citizens would be more, not less. I could talk about this for a long time, but I know that several political parties and many members of the Riigikogu have already painted themselves in the corner. If you have any questions, let's have this debate, let's keep it up! We're not gonna let it go. If 'no' comes today, we will ask the people for a mandate to move forward on this subject after 3 March. We're not gonna let this go. We are not leaving our people behind in Estonia or anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U7	Thank you. Dear waitress Hanno Pevkur, there are also questions for you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U8	Thank you. Good waitress! I have had the opportunity to meet with foreign Estonian communities in Finland, Sweden, Australia, England, the east coast of the United States, the west coast and many others. And there are people everywhere who are 100% Estonian people. Their children, born in these countries, have also received citizenship of this country at birth, as well as Estonian citizenship. And they have always had one question: why do you take one of my children away from their nationality? Why are you saying that if he is born in America and has American citizenship, he is no longer fit to be an Estonian citizen? I have always said that I think this is unfair and that this injustice must be eliminated. Have you understood why, for example, the Fatherland Party is opposed to their external Estonian families?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U9	Thank you, good Javier! Both you in your line of work and I in my line of work met quite a lot of outside Estonians. I had a meeting in Washington as the Minister of the Interior with the President of the Estonian National Committee, Marju Rink-Abel, who is working to unite the communities of foreign Estonians. Marju Rink-Abel made it clear that, of course, all outside Estonian communities support the multi-citizenship of the citizens of the post-natal Republic of Estonia. If anyone needs that confirmation, google, you'll find the message of the leader of this outside Estonian community. Speaking of Fatherland, yesterday I understood only one thing the Minister of Justice said: it was intimidation with Russia. Russia is not listed in this bill. I understand that if the Fatherland were really a patriotic party and an eternal party, they would be interested in ensuring that Estonian and Estonian citizenship and the Estonian people remain forever. One way to ensure this is to unite Estonians around the world, give our diasporas a message that Estonian citizens are Estonian citizens, regardless of whether they live in Estonia or, for example, in the United States or Australia. The world is wide, the borders are open, people can move. I think that any citizen of the Republic of Estonia who thinks with heart, any Member who thinks with heart, should support this bill and say to his people: 'Welcome back! ' or 'Welcome and remain Estonians!' ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U10	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U11	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Would you please remind this hall which countries are currently allowed to double citizenship for birth citizens and which countries are not? I mean, what value space are we now in by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U12	Thank you. This list of countries is certainly quite long. If you dismantle either beloved or hated, how to someone with Wikipedia, it says countries where multiple citizenship is permitted and not allowed. In a large part of Western Europe, multi-citizenship is allowed, and rather in Eastern Europe there is a rather serious debate about it. But the realization that borders are no longer the same as they were 30 or 40 years ago is spreading all over the world. And, of course, just as we employ European Union citizens to work here in Estonia, just as we support free movement within the European Union, so it should be natural to understand that people must have the opportunity and freedom to move from one country to another. This also means that people create families in different countries. And, of course, this involves the issue of the citizenship of children growing in these families. In fact, it is natural that each country, figuratively speaking, fights to keep in touch with its own citizens, who are born with them. If we say that the country has pushed citizens after birth away, then one country cannot give out a stronger false signal. We should do everything to ensure that the citizens of the Republic of Estonia who are born in Estonia are welcome in Estonia and feel that they are Estonians at birth and wish to be citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U13	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good waitress! You are here many times, perhaps even dozens of times, oppressed national feeling and conscience and Estonianity and the slogan 'Estonians back to their homeland! '. Any normal person should have blood boiling now and a pulse rising to 200 because a real nationalist is talking on the remote. But if you look back in recent history, for example, there was a great afjora related to Stelmach and Raudse: Estonian citizenship was sold to Russian mafias with a dull face of cod. And it was buried, nothing happened. Aren't you trying to legalize here, under the nationalism label, an act that your coalition partners of those days had been completely legal? That's what it turned out to be. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U14	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U15	Thank you. Short and specific answer: not trying. This bill is clear and understandable to everyone that it is about the citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth who would also have the right to another citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U16	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U17	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As we recall, yesterday, the government bought the votes of Isamaa for a budget with roofing money, and this time the government crisis is over. The election campaign money can't be taken away now. What, then, do you think the reason why the Fatherland ambassadors do not now support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U18	Thank you. I hope that they will come here and explain this on behalf of the group. It's very hard to read people's minds. I'm not at this high level with my powers yet, so I can read someone's mind. But I can read the views expressed in the media. And these positions, as I have already said, have nothing to do with this draft. These statements relate to the sowing of fear that does not concern this draft. I am talking and we are talking about the citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth, and we are also talking about a group of countries. Citizenship is freely decided by each country, taking a position on whom and how to give it. In the case of birth citizens, one important factor must be taken into account, which is the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia protects all these people and there is no moral right to make them choose whether to renounce Estonian citizenship. Consequently, it is really very difficult for me to understand why the Fatherland does not support this bill. If they were talking about content rather than using intimidation in demagoguery, they would understand that this bill does not concern Russia by a gram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U19	Ladies and gentlemen on the right side of the hall! Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U20	Thank you. To these colleagues on the wing, I would rather complain about the silent numbness of the debate on a very important subject. But indeed, silence would be better. I don't really understand this silent numbness in the case of several drafts. Nobody thinks anything and just votes things down. But in the case of citizenship, has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs been in contact with, for example, the World Central Council of Estonia or other international associations? You mentioned one, and you suggested Google, but it's clearly not enough to make politicians feel. How actively has the international Estonian community been involved and how active have they been?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U21	Thank you. When I was acting Minister of the Interior in the Government of the Republic, I asked Marju Rink-Abel, as head of the umbrella organisation, to examine what other organisations thought. And the answer was that, of course, everyone supports this solution. Of course everyone supports! As far as the message of external Estonians is concerned, as Taavi said, it is exactly the same in his meetings with Estonian communities in different countries. There is no doubt that outside Estonian communities support this solution, that if you are a citizen of the Republic of Estonia at birth, your children are also Estonian citizens. And if these children, for example, also have the right to citizenship in the United States, they are also citizens of the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U22	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U23	Thank you. When it became clear with the previous question and answer that the party Isamaa has completely abandoned the external community, I now ask about the Centre Party. It is remembered that the Centre Party would like to establish the possibility of Estonian citizenship for all those who live in Estonia. We are talking about the nullity of citizenship. They've been promoting it over and over again. But now we are talking about allowing Estonian citizenship to be granted, for example, to two older children of Estonian citizens who were born in the United States, for example. Such a family lives as foreign Estonians in America, where American citizenship is essential for practical reasons. Isn't it hypocritical that an Estonian child should not be an Estonian citizen according to the Central Party, while everyone living in Estonia is allowed, regardless of nationality and whether they speak Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U24	Thank you. The short answer is, 'Yes, it is hypocritical. ' But I missed one thing with Jürgen, I'm sorry! We did not really have a long debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can talk about this, but in fact we did not have a substantive debate at all. We immediately went to the vote on the draft, and the people in the coalition simply voted in favour of rejecting the draft at first reading from the point of view of the agreement. There was no substantive debate in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U25	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U26	Thank you. Dear waitress, If my memory doesn't fool me, then you've been in power for 15 years and your person has been Prime Minister for a long time. So why didn't you take care of these things, as well as this education in Estonian? Now, before the elections, you come up with these drafts. I think it's more of an election campaign or a show.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U27	Good Uno! Indeed, you have been in this hall less time, and not everything in history may be known. I haven't been very long either. Jürgen, for example, has been much longer and Mart Nutt has been much longer, and they certainly have much more historical memory. But I can assure you that this issue has been on the table during my previous coalitions, even when I raised myself, but, as the coalition governments tend to have, just as the Fatherland was the brake for a migration agreement, so he was the brake for allowing double citizenship, who said no.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U28	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U29	Thank you. It is actually very interesting that we have an item on which everyone blames the Reform Party for being in previous governments, but there is no way to identify themselves with these governments and praise the coalition to heaven that succeeded in creating a Central Party. The Centre Party is in favour of zero-citizenship. It's as if the Fatherland is a nationalist! How can it be that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, headed by a fatherlander, does not discuss the issue of their citizenship with outside Estonians? I am actually asking because I assumed that there had been such a debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I myself have received signals from people who are very concerned about their children, who have somehow gone abroad, and also about themselves. This is a very practical problem. How is it possible that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not involved the external Estonians most directly affected by this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U30	Thank you. We received some letters from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from the people who are facing this problem. And it hurts to read those letters. People describe the tragedy of their family, as they must let their children choose whether to remain an Estonian citizen or to take the citizenship of another parent at birth. They write that they don't want to put their children in front of that choice. It is unethical to tell these people that one day their children will still have a choice whether to be citizens of the Republic of Estonia or citizens of another country, such as Belgium, the United States or Australia. It's a pain to read, of course. Why didn't we discuss this? Similarly, it was clear at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that there was no coalition's will to adopt the draft. There was a desire to vote quickly in the corner of the draft, and this was done in the Commission. The Tribune for this debate is here today and every member of the Riigikogu is free in his/her decision. When you think with your heart, you think of the Estonians to whom we give a signal that you are not needed by Estonia, I think that is wrong. I think these people deserve our citizenship. After all, we are talking today about children, but also about adults who are away from Estonia. We cannot tell them that you are not welcome in Estonia. On the contrary, we must tell them that you are welcome in Estonia. But in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, yes, it wasn't this debate because of the coalition's understanding, the coalition's persistence, I don't know, the adoption of the budget, and I don't know what interests yet... The budget has now been adopted. The Fatherland is free to vote in favour of this bill, there is no need to remain in this coalition anymore. Then let the Socats and the Centre Party be. I don't know, forty or many of them are in the coalition until 3 March, nothing will happen. It is possible to demonstrate patriotism in your party and heart and tell the people of Estonia that you are welcome in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This is a bill that also has a very practical and substantive value, not to mention patriotism. When you presented this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, did there ever sound any argument as to why it was opposed? Or was it really just a decision that the coalition was against, and the question was not discussed at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U32	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U33	Thank you. In essence, the question was not discussed at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U34	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Personally, I am not surprised that some committees, led by a coalition representative, do not take the trouble of involving certain parties or that there will be drafts from the government for which target groups are not involved. But what amazes me is that when we look at the history of our independence and how we were freed again, no one has any doubt as to how important an external community has played a part in this. It seems absolutely unbelievable that it is now impossible to find a way to support this bill in this Chamber. Who's gonna block it anyway? We should consider what our population trends are. Who will benefit from the long-term decoupling of such an important part of Estonianism from our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U36	Thank you for your question. For whose sake? I see only one interest here: it is an interest in cramping the coalition together. I do not see here the possibility that if people actually thought about what the problem would be solved by this legislative amendment and how they would solve it so that someone could be opposed to it. To say 'no' to the citizens after birth is, in my opinion, very wrong. Who else would it be for? I can tell you whose interests it is not. It is not in the interests of people who are citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth, but have found family happiness with a citizen of another country. That's not in the best interest of these kids. It is not in the interests of people who live abroad, who are citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth, but feel that they were, are and remain Estonians. They must not be made to choose between the citizenship of another country and Estonian citizenship. They must not be told that they must give up our citizenship if they want to be citizens of another country. When we press a button in this Chamber, we have to take these choices into account, we have to think about whose interests we will decide. If we vote 'no', all these people in Estonia will suffer and there will be tens of thousands of them who, one day or today, will be faced with the choice of whether or not to remain a citizen of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U37	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U38	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, In the Republic of Estonia, citizenship issues have been resolved for a long time, not on the basis of laws, but, let's say, on the basis of judicial regulations. Apparently, you are also familiar with the Albert Märdin case, in fact he was Märtin, whose case the Estonian courts took the decision that the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia, which was given to the optants, is also unreachable on such occasions, when, for example, their ancestors were shot in 1938 for being Estonian citizens. They got in trouble, and they put their kids in an orphanage. It was decided that these children could acquire Estonian citizenship. Does the purpose of this law seem to be to make sure that these people are ruled out?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U39	Thank you. I do not agree with you that citizenship is not defined by law. It is the law that provides the framework for our citizenship principles. And Parliament is where these frames are given. It is our job to decide what our citizenship policy is. Yes, we have kept our citizenship policy conservative. Right! But this citizenship policy, which we have kept as such, must also mean that our natives, the citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth, should not suffer. Of course, we'll see a few more cases. We know one case from the last few weeks, the case of Alli Rutto. And unfortunately, these individual cases must be resolved, as you rightly pointed out, by the court. But the frames for citizenship we give here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U40	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The Reform Party, along with other forces, has been in power in the country for 17 long years. My question is: why haven't you told us in 17 years that kindergartens and schools have changed in Estonian and the Citizenship Act? You said in your speech that it's possible to show your patriotism right now. Is that what this is about to show you before the election? Please open a bit of the broader background for why it has been so! Of course Jürgen would certainly be a better man to answer that, but I really want to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U42	Thank you. Your good colleague from behind asked the same question. The answer is very simple: The Reform Party has supported the admission of double citizenship to the citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth, but our coalition partners have not supported it. I don't understand it, I say it completely sincerely. Nor do we often come to an understanding of issues such as taxation and Estonian language. There are different concepts. But right now, I don't think it's a question of whether you're on the right or on the left. When we talk about the citizenship of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth, the question is whether we are keeping our people or not. It's a question. And you, too, have this choice right now: either you support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to reject the draft at first reading, or you support the fact that we give a good signal to the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, we go ahead with the bill and adopt the law before 3 March, why not symbolically at the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, so that people who are citizens of the Republic of Estonia by birth will remain entitled to it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U43	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U44	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Yesterday there was a big debate on 'unpretentious reputation', a concept which was not well understood. Today I hear the Reform Party running a conservative citizenship policy and seven times bringing to the table a bill of multi-citizenship that has still been rejected due to opposition from the Fatherland. Now I ask you: have you not thought of not only directing the Fatherland to work with another liberal party in the great coalition and thus to straighten out all these boundaries? And the second question: could a member of the Riigikogu have an impeccable reputation, i.e. with two legs on the ground, before Christmas shopping?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U45	Thank you. I am very much on the ground with two legs, and I think that the entire Group of the Reform Party is more than two feet on the ground on this issue. Our message is also to the native citizens living outside Estonia that yes, you are Estonians. You want to tell them they have to choose. I don't understand you, Tarmo! I really don't understand why you're saying this. This rhetoric, which you have chosen when talking about double citizenship and referring to Russia, is not the case with this draft. It's not a scumbag! You're blurring and bullshitting people. Read this bill if you haven't done it yet! The content of the draft is that the citizens of the Republic of Estonia are born after birth! is also entitled to acquire the citizenship of another country. And it also contains a list of possible countries. The State has the right to conduct a conservative citizenship policy. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U46	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U47	Thank you. I note that this bill has decided to delve into all the problems of Estonian citizenship policy. I mean, above all, that citizenship is actually a human right, but our citizenship policy makes citizenship a privilege. One of my acquaintances in the United States, a native Estonian citizen, looked at this proposal and said that he does not want another citizenship for his children if children in the same situation are not granted citizenship in Russia, Brazil, Turkey or Japan, for example. He would not want citizenship either in circumstances where, for 25 years, no senseless barriers to citizenship have been placed on the path of people living in Estonia, so that they have no citizenship at all. Have you not thought about giving up such a privilege approach and allowing double citizenship for all Estonian citizens, whether this other nationality is Japanese, Argentina or any other country? Why are some native citizens worse than others? Why are some citizens worse than others?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U48	Thank you for that question. Yeah, we made a choice. As I said, on the issue of citizenship, countries have the right to make such choices. We saw an opportunity to demarcate countries in the case of birth citizens, and we think that this is the right way. If you have a proposal to include a country here, be it Japan, for example, which has the same value area as Estonia, then you have this possibility. If you just show the bill a red light today, you won't have that chance. The question is, of course, what kind of signal are we sending from this hall? And I think your friend, if he really does exist, says that he would actually want the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia for his children, that he does not want to renounce Estonian citizenship at birth. It is the logical understanding of any normal-thinking Estonian that I am of course related to my country, of course I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U49	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U50	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I think it's a lousy debate or it's pulling in a lousy direction. It is very unfortunate to hear that, according to the statements of some politicians, Estonian citizens who are born do not deserve the right to Estonian citizenship that has come to them at birth. I think it's a short-sighted and petty position. The Constitution says that the Estonian citizen of birth must not be deprived of his or her citizenship. We also have the Chancellor of Justice to monitor the implementation of the Constitution. Now, if another vote is taken against our proposal to keep the citizens of birth, do you see an opportunity to turn to the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U51	Thank you. Of course this is an opportunity. And formally, it is possible to construct an approach that no one is taken of the citizenship of their birth. This approach has also been maintained by the PBGB. But the Citizenship Act clearly says otherwise: no one can have two citizenships. In this sense, this provision of the Citizenship Act is, in my opinion, incompatible with the spirit of the Constitution. Obviously not! The message of the Constitution is clear: if people have acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia after birth, the state does not even have the moral right to tell them that you have to choose. That choice must not be required of them. If an Estonian citizen wishes to extend the passport of the Republic of Estonia or apply for the passport of the Republic of Estonia for his or her child, he or she must have this right. Above all, I am talking about children born and children already born. They are told that when you get 18, you must choose which citizenship you take. And that's a choice you can't demand from people. In this sense, of course, I think that indeed those whose country proposes this choice have the subjective right to address the Chancellor of Justice as well, in order to ask whether this choice is compatible with the spirit of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U52	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U53	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Listening to your presentation gives rise to a terrible desire to weep debilitatingly, which insane injustice is done to Estonian citizens after birth. I'm totally in. But I've been through certain times and have a historical memory, remember how the privatisation took place in the first circle, the second circle, the third circle, the fourth circle, and how the search was made for an Aboriginal running around Australia with a spear, that maybe he's an Estonian, maybe he can sell something or give it back. Right now, I feel exactly the same way. Some pseudo-problems in the rest of the world are being solved. If Estonian wants to be Estonian, Estonian is Estonian. But at the same time, problems are not solved here on the ground. We have strange countrymen: what does a gray passport mean? The rest of Europe and the whole world don't understand what this is. And these people are much more loyal to our country than any Aboriginal Estonian citizen living in Australia. Why doesn't the gray passport solve the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U54	Good March! I understand you want to take the debate somewhere else, but don't do it. A sincere suggestion! As for the gray passport, I only have one sentence to tell you. All people living here have the right to apply for the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia, but this does not concern the citizenship of the birth, which is protected by the Constitution. People who are citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth have the protection of the Constitution, among other things, hopefully also the protection of the Constitution granted by your vote in favour. The Estonian people have adopted this constitution together and we have said that we will protect the citizens of birth, regardless of where they live.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U55	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I think you were a little unfair to a good colleague of Oudekki Loone. This friend is definitely there, his last name starts with a "P" and ends with an "N." But I'm amazed at what it is. We have created various committees here in the Riigikogu. One of them is the problem committee on the resolution of the population crisis, which should be focused on precisely this objective, so that we Estonians have more. Today there is a very specific draft on the table, which can be supported by keeping the number of citizens loyal to the Estonian state at birth higher. Is there any other issue at stake why this support may not come from the hall today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U57	Thank you. That was a very good point! The problem committee on the population crisis, or whatever its name is, could indeed have dealt with this issue. After all, we are not only talking about people who live outside Estonia as external Estonians. The question also concerns people who have returned to Estonia, having met someone with whom a family has been created when travelling in the wide world. And now we are putting the same person and his children back in Estonia in front of the choice. Maybe one day they will no longer be Estonian citizens. They are Estonians in terms of nationality, but they are not Estonians in terms of nationality. It's about putting these people in a completely unfair position. Now this is something that I really cannot accept that someone in this Chamber would think that if a child is born into the family of an Estonian citizen, he will eventually have to choose between two citizenships. No, you don't! No, you don't!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U58	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U59	Good manager! Good Hanno! By the way, last week was a conference dedicated to outside Estonians in the so-called Committee on Population and I did not see any representatives of the Reform Party there. You said it was possible to show your patriotism now, but I saw that during this 17 years, the Reform Party has held the position of Minister of Justice in 12 years, and the Minister of Education has served in 12 years in the hands of the present Fatherland. You said the Reform Party couldn't express its patriotism. Open up a little bit more of how that's possible! Who, then, has hindered the patriotism of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U60	Thank you. I certainly did not say that the Reform Party has not been able to express its patriotism. As Minister of the Interior, I proposed to the Government of the Republic that this matter be resolved. You have little or no coalition experience, but in the meantime, when you were in the middle party, you saw that there was a need for consensus in the coalition when discussing topics. If there is no consensus, there is no government. Since, for example, there is no consensus on migration in the government today and we have already heard from the chairman of the sots in January that this government is simply ticking, in fact, the government is not on very many issues. And that is the weakness of the government if there is no consensus. But the second option is that if there is no consensus, the subject cannot be brought to this hall. Now in opposition, the Reform Party brought this issue to the hall for the second time. We can bring more, and I'll say we're not gonna leave it at that. We certainly will not leave this issue behind! We will never neglect this issue. We will not leave Estonians anywhere abroad knowing that they may have to give up the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia. No one left behind, no Estonians left behind. That should be the principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U61	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U62	Thank you. The Reform Party has, of course, always been an elite party and this draft also reflects this eliteism. I fully understand that it is not for all citizens to stand up for birth citizens, but not for all birth citizens, but only for those who get to live in countries that the Reform Party likes. A mysterious concept such as 'value space' has been introduced. If you read the Estonian Constitution, the Constitution considers all citizens equal, including the issue of withdrawing Estonian citizenship. The Constitution actually allows double citizenship for all Estonians. In addition, the Constitution also states that nationality must not be withdrawn for reasons of conviction. Valuable talk goes completely against the protection of such beliefs. You said when you answered that we had the right to make that choice. Well, the right is to make all kinds of random choices, but they should be justified somehow. How do you justify that some citizens are still left behind? Some citizens do not deserve the protection of the law; only some of them deserve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U63	Thank you. The Reform Party is an Estonian party, certainly we are also a party of all Estonians. The Reform Party stands up for Estonians and we will continue to do so. As far as double citizenship is concerned, once again: these choices are always on the table of the country. Much depends precisely on what value space people live in. Our list could, of course, be longer. We discussed it the same way. I also said here last time that there were also wider choices in our debate. But today we came to this hall with such a bill. When it comes to birth citizenship, the protection of the Constitution, as I have already said, is, of course, still valid. At the same time, the Citizenship Act must not, today, talk about the amendment of the Citizenship Act in any way contrary to the Constitution. That's why this bill is in front of you. You, on the other hand, will be able to signal immediately after the questions and statements of opinion from the political groups what you think of this bill, whether you consider it right to proceed with this bill or to throw it out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U64	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U65	Thank you! Good waitress! I sincerely thank you for your reply to the previous one, where you admitted that being in opposition has had a positive effect on you, that the arrogany, which was characteristic of the power party, has now decreased and your field of vision has expanded. That's good! This is really good, because there are actually quite a few problems in Estonia that may not seem higher. But my question is for you as former Minister of the Interior. Do you know any specific cases in your area of responsibility and if there has been such a case, how you have reacted? I understand that there have been situations in which a citizen of the Republic of Estonia has returned to Estonia and whether Officer X of the Police and Border Guard Board or of the Citizenship and Migration Board has said that I, Officer X, will take away your citizenship, Mr or Mrs XX, because you have the citizenship of another country. Do you know of such cases and, if you know, how you have reacted?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U66	Thank you. Yeah, I know. And I said that these people must not be told that they must give up the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia. [[They say something in the hall.]] Listen, it's been a long time since I was Minister of the Interior, but if you'd like to call Ruth Doll, for example, who is the head of the Citizenship Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior. He can assure you that at a time when I was Minister of the Interior, we had a lot of conversations on this subject and also on how the PBA must behave in one case or another and what the meaning of the Constitution is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U67	Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U68	Thank you. It came up here that this is a very patriotic bill. I mean, there can't be more patriotic people than I feel. And I'm also a very liberal person. Having been around the world a lot, I have visited more than half of the countries I have recently met more and more people of Estonian origin. Since I am very liberal, I really want to point out that, even though you, Hanno, are saying that no one is left behind, they are. I know Estonians who live in Peru, and there are Estonians who live in Colombia, and there are Estonians who live in China and Japan, as well as Kenya. Well, they're still leaving someone behind. Why don't we go further with this? I would very much like to support this bill, but I just want no one left behind because of my liberal concept of the world. But we're leaving the part behind. How did you end this debate with what he did?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U69	Thank you. No, there is no way to leave Estonians living in Peru, China or Japan. In fact, in parallel with the laws of the Republic of Estonia, the laws of the country in which these people are located must also be taken into account, of course, whether double citizenship is allowed there, whether they must give up one citizenship or not, or what the conditions are at all. If a person is not faced with the obligation that he must choose, then there is no question for us either in Peru or in China or in Japan. But in order to have a substantive debate about which countries we have a common value area, which we do not have, we should first get over the dog and then his tail. We have to finish our first reading and get on with it. This debate, whether this list is final or not, is certainly also ready to be held by the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U70	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U71	Thank you. I am listening to this debate here and it seems that it is worth all the attention in itself how the Fatherland and the Centre Party have suddenly found themselves in an undertaking which consists in rejecting the right of birth citizens to Estonian citizenship. However, there have also been several questions about the substance of this draft. This is a first reading, yet the Commission has already discussed it. Please tell me whether the questioners in the Commission, who are currently very critical of the content here, had any proposals to amend the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U72	Thank you. Unfortunately, as I have already said, there was no substantive debate in the Commission. But I would very much like to see that, when we finish our first reading, Hannes, for example, comes to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as an alternate for Evgen and we can hold a substantive debate. Absolutely nothing against that! Hannes has traveled the world a great deal, with and without a bike, and he has certainly been in contact with very diverse associations, including Estonians from all over the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U73	For the sake of the report, I would add that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is dealing with this draft rather than the Committee on Legal Affairs. Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U74	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I have considered you, Hanno, to be a well-balanced and proper person. This labelling, which now came out especially with questions and answers, I didn't like it at all and makes me sad. I'm not going to appreciate today how big or small an Estonian someone in this hall is, it wouldn't be ethical. But I'm still asking the same question that came up here, and what did I ask last time: why did we still do this circle? In your own party, the circle was quite different, and you did not have much willingness to develop a substantive discussion. Once again, is this something that the campaign must do before the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U75	Thank you, Helmut! This is definitely not a campaign. We have held this position for a very long time. We would have had the opportunity to proceed with this bill for the first time, and then it would not have been so close to the elections at all. And if we have a wish, we will still be able to accept it in the weeks remaining before the Riigikogu elections. If that doesn't work, it'll be the election theme. In any case, the electoral programme of the Reform Party will get it in, we will ask the people for a mandate. If the people think it is right that we have to deal with this issue, then we will be at the table for possible coalition negotiations, we will certainly lift it up. But I very much hope that we will be able to adopt this bill as a law in this Chamber during the remaining working weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U76	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U77	Thank you. Double citizenship also imposes an obligation on a person in relation to that other country. Let's see from a practical point of view! If an Estonian citizen has Estonian citizenship and, for example, Italian citizenship, then perhaps there is no question. Italy is our ally, a friendly country for us. However, in the case of Russia, for example, the question arises as to whether or not to be in favour of continuing or extending sanctions. You put these people in a fork. Which position does this person have to support? He is obliged to keep the interests of both countries in mind, especially if this double-citizen person sits here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U78	Thank you. We don't put these people in a fork. A person still has the right to an opinion. We have freedom of opinion, and we are always allowed to take our own stand. There have also been different views in this Chamber. There are those who support sanctions and there are those who do not support them. However, these are citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth. The position that a person thinks is right, he doesn't have to change. You can't force that. Man shapes his own opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U79	Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U80	Thank you. This is where the words 'constitutional defence' were repeated and must be accepted, and that is what is very necessary. But the Constitution also imposes obligations on citizens. You said you were the Minister of the Interior, too. As Minister of Defence, I had frequent contact with the subject of participation in military service, i.e. national defence. This is one of those questions that is probably difficult to find a good answer for. Indeed, we have people scattered over the world, and many of those who arise or already have the right to Estonian citizenship or who already have Estonian citizenship also have certain obligations. Did you discuss how to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U81	Thank you. As I said, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we did not really have a substantive debate. But we'll see what's going on with the northern neighbours right now. We all know that citizenship is a constitutional right which, at the same time, entails certain obligations, at least moral. For example, you have to choose. And these questions must inevitably be raised on the table. The only so-called substantive obligation is the obligation of the Defence Forces. Everything else is a right: you can do it, but you don't have to do it. In the case of military service, the state must tell us whether or not we are expecting these people to join the Defence Service in Estonia. Or we say that, when it comes to our ally, the allies are one family, and perhaps it is enough for us that a person has chosen which country he will fulfill his duty of defence in. It is also a perfectly possible choice. At the same time, we know that all young people living in Estonia are unable to accept in the Defence Forces. We have a whole bunch of people who are excluded from the service for various reasons. In this sense, I do not believe that we would have a major problem due to double citizenship. Most of the young people coming to the Defence Forces service are still only Estonian citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U82	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U83	Thank you. Good waitress! It makes me very sad that I cannot tell my four grandchildren born and growing in the United States that the Estonian state always protects them both in word and in deed. Given the majority of the hall's mind, I don't think that's gonna happen here today either. When do you think we'll get so far that the Citizenship Act is compatible with the Constitution, and my grandchildren and so many other people in similar situations do not have to make this very difficult and illogical and bad choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U84	Thank you. Of course, it is in the hands of the people to judge absolute truth. Those to whom the people will give a mandate to dissect this issue on 3 March will one day resolve this issue in this Chamber. But since the questions are running out now, perhaps it is appropriate to talk about an old Chinese parable that illustrates this choice. There were two wise Orientals. Everyone came to one asking for advice, which was the right choice, but no one came to the other. And then whoever wasn't there figured out that if I showed him that the other one was wrong, everyone would come to me. He thought he'd take a bird, put it in the palm of his hand, and go ask another wise man whether the bird in his hand is alive or dead. And when the other smart guy says the bird's alive, he's gonna squeeze the party together and the bird's dead. But when the other one says the bird is dead, he opens the party and the bird flies away. And so he did. He went to his competitor and said, "Good colleague, do you think the bird in my hand is alive or dead? 'The second wise man answered, "Dear friend, this is all in your own hands. ' And that's exactly what it is. The people must make this decision with their votes on 3 March if we do not find a consensus in this Chamber before 3 March or at least do not receive majority support for the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U85	Thomas Väinaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask why you use the term 'valuespace' in this draft. And what do you think it means?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U87	Thank you. I don't have much to say about this for a very long time. If you make a list, which is in § 1 (4) of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, I believe you understand that. These are our allies and our partners. I'm sure it's possible to extend this list, but it was our original choice that we brought into this hall today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U88	Dear waitress Hanno Pevkur, there are no further questions for you. Please speak to Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U89	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of the first reading of draft law amending the Citizenship Act 709 was on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 3 December 2018. Indeed, as the initiator's representative, Hanno Pevkur, has already said here, there has been no further discussion of this draft in the Commission. The initiator of the draft act did not protest against this, but merely mentioned that, compared to the previous one, when the draft law amending the Citizenship Act was under discussion, the Reform Party has accepted the wish of the Minister of Justice to take citizenship away from those who have committed treason or terrorist crime. The provisions in this regard have been incorporated into the draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 13 December and that the draft be rejected. 5 members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and 3 were in favour of this proposal. It was also decided that the presentation would be made by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U90	Thank you. You have questions too. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U91	Thank you, good waitress. I also attended this meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and it was not possible to open my mouth, let alone protest. That is why I am asking whether this is common in the composition of this Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that the debate on opposition drafts will not be opened at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U92	Thanks! It's not normal. There have been very different cases and attempts have also been made to turn the opposition draft into a law that has not succeeded. For example, I can mention the draft of the Free Party concerning pre-election advertising restrictions, but we did not find enough consensus to do so. This could be the opposite. As regards the laconic nature of the debate on the Citizenship Act, you all know why. In this very hall, in September, a similar bill number 634 was discussed. At the time, Jüri Adams made a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This draft was discussed here on 20 September and 25 September, and the course of the debate and the nature of the questions and answers were similar to what happened today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U93	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Pomerants! As a representative of the Free Party, I hope that our barren cooperation will take a turn to the right in the time remaining. But to tell me the truth, the bill was quite saddened by such a debate, which was limited to political pingpong. Perhaps it is best to ask you, as chairman of the committee, what steps the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has planned to better integrate into the life of Estonia people who have gone abroad for shorter or longer periods. There has also been talk about the electoral district of external Estonia. In my opinion, it was a perfectly legitimate remark that this is a very important category whose voice should be heard at the level of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when issues such as those in this draft are being discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U95	Thanks! There will be no further discussions in the remaining period. As far as the participation of people living outside Estonia in the parliamentary elections of the Republic of Estonia is concerned, it will also take place in spring 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U96	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I also ask whether the Commission did not raise at all the proposal to turn to the representations of the external Estonian communities. These representations exist, they have held their spring conference or grand assembly even here in the Riigikogu building and raised the issue of double citizenship from a very practical point of view. Does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs know their position and did not consider it important? Why this approach? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U98	Thanks! Indeed, as Mr Pevkur said in his presentation of the draft, the Commission has received individual returns from citizens. As far as the global representative organisation of Estonians is concerned, during the history of our work practice, they have addressed us with one question. And this is adding an additional deadline to the Estonian calendar. We're talking about a "big escape" day, aren't we? As regards whether this could be a question of ignoring their position on this issue, the answer is 'no'. This position is known, it is in favour. And all parties taking part in the voting procedure must also take this aspect into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U99	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It's been said here that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice had this last bill, I don't remember, you said that number too...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U101	Number 634.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U102	... its opinion on this matter, and this concerned, above all, the conditions under which Estonian citizenship could be taken away. It is now included in the draft, so the opinion of the Minister for Justice has been taken into account. Has the Minister of Justice now expressed his position on this draft and, if so, what is it like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U103	Ruth Annus presented the Government's position and explained that, as regards the amendment of the Penal Code, the Government's position in this respect is supportive. As regards support for the draft itself, the position is the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U104	Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. No further questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Black Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have never been Minister of the Interior, but I have seen struggles around citizenship from the other side. I have seen what has been preserved and stored in history documents, and what has been practical steps, not only in law theory, but also in law practice. In my question, I referred to an interesting document, which is the Albert Märdin case. This court was held exactly 16 years ago, and the question was whether the people living in Russia were our national companions or not. I promise to abuse myself a little bit of time to talk about the human aspect. Märdin came to Estonia with his grandmother's optimist certificate and asked for an Estonian passport. He was told that it didn't apply, take it to the Estonian National Museum. When he asked why he didn't apply, he was told to read the Tartu Peace Treaty. The pagans were read together with the Tartu Peace Treaty, the point that would have invalidated this passport was not found. It was said that there was a separate law. The law was reviewed and one was found, signed by Kalinin, confirming that it was valid for only one year. Finally, 16 years ago, the Republic of Estonia found that the descendants of all people who went to Russia as an optant and applied for citizenship there have the right to Estonian citizenship in a direct line. In the years that followed, the same case-case decision was substantially changed in practice. Well, as a mid-term remark, the Citizenship and Migration Board itself finally said to sue us. The riot went through the trial and won. Later, this attitude began to be restrained. I've been watching what's happening as an archivist. This was the case: people come into the archives, find documents that show that they are grandsons of their grandmother, but they always said something like that in the Citizenship and Migration Board: but the fact that Grandma was 8 years old in 1908 does not show that she was born in 1900! There was a mass of such covert rejections, and I can bring a package about them if anyone cares and show you what that practice was like. More interesting practice was that, for example, you were told that you had never had citizenship, because your ancestor gave up Estonian citizenship. And there is also a document that he gave up: it is written that the head of the Krasnoyarsk prison confirms that this ancestor, being in the cell of the death sentences of the Krasnoyarsk prison, signed the surrender of Estonian citizenship and then got out of the cell. We can discuss whether this was a legitimate waiver or not. Or one of the citizens of Tamm who came to Estonia and said that his family lived in Konguta. The documents were fine, but they said he was born in Kongúta. He was told you would look for Kongúta where Kalkuta is. Konguta is entirely present in Tartu County, by the way. What's the point of all this? My teacher Professor Herbert Ligi taught me once: 'Never believe it when someone comes to arguing by having an idea and I believe it. ' I've come up with some sort of scheme by one piece, and this scheme we're looking at here, especially in the run-up to the elections. One piece of something will be taken, a large structure will be built and said: "But now the right Estonian will believe everything just as I do! " Don't bother looking at documents. I have copied tens of thousands of documents and I dare say yes to you, unfortunately, so I was taught that perhaps there is some rational point in this bill. Maybe it's a security threat if more than 150,000 offspring suddenly want to return to the land of the ancestors. If it's a security threat, then we're gonna have to take measures against it. But it has been found that we do not like this country, and these people are not ours, and that is one of the basic points of view of this bill, well, that is pre-election propaganda and listen, still far from the real thing. I don't have much time here anymore, but I can write a long story about all this in the press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U106	Thank you, Mr. Aadu Black! Jürgen Ligi, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U107	I have a question about qualification. My name was mentioned here, and so I would like to say that Professor Ligi would certainly have taken care of the citizenship of the foreign Estonians and said so to his student Aadu Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U108	For the sake of the tenogram, Aadu Black named Herbert Ligi. But let's keep going! Henn Põllaas, please, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U109	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U110	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U111	Ladies and gentlemen, With this content, we are not on the table for the first time. In 2013, the Ministry of the Interior prepared a double-citizenship impact analysis, the conclusion of which was that it was a direct negative step and a threat to our security. I'm relying on that analysis here. Elsewhere, double citizenship is indeed applied in some countries, but in very limited cases. Double citizenship is not common, and there are clear reasons for it. For example, after poor experience, the Netherlands has made double citizenship unacceptable again. Estonian citizenship policy has been based on conservative principles; the Reform Party's draft turns it on its head. The analysis found that the argument that double citizenship would encourage contacts with emigrated Estonians has not been proven. It's just emotional dim. Introducing a list of permitted countries will not solve the problem that our citizens may also become citizens of some countries that are hostile to us. This is because a number of European Union or other countries also allow double citizenship with third countries. This is how Russian double citizenship is legalised through the media. Is that the goal? By giving birth citizens the right to be nationals of another country, we ourselves open them up to the influence of other countries. Since loyalty is indivisible, there is a conflict, especially when another country has different interests. A double-citizen has obligations in relation to several countries. We also give citizens of other countries access to the highest power of the Republic of Estonia. Even if it is a friendly country, each country has its own interests, which may be completely opposite to ours. The question is which country's interests are represented, for example, by a member of the Riigikogu, a minister or a diplomat, if he negotiates with a country whose nationality he also holds. What country is protected by such a general or a soldier or an agent? How to avoid leakage of state secrets? The Constitution states that Estonia also protects its citizens abroad. Double citizenship can create tensions in transnational relations, for example if a person wants diplomatic protection from another country, being both citizens. The regularisation of double citizenship places a heavy burden on the Police and Border Guard Board, kapo, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence and requires very large and costly IT developments. In 2013, it was estimated at EUR 3 million per one-off cost and up to EUR 1 million per year as a fixed cost. Now we can count on the higher costs. We also have people with double citizenship here in the Riigikogu, but the double citizenship resulting from the violation of the law cannot be the basis for legitimising it. It is natural for a person to choose which country is his fatherland and to whom he is loyal. The final conclusion of the analysis is: since there is no need for the regularisation of double citizenship under international law and the Constitution, it would be contrary to a consistent citizenship policy and would lead to important security effects as broad as direct, there is no reasonable reason to legitimise double citizenship in Estonia. And so it is now. It is our duty to stand up for the interests of Estonia, but unfortunately, the proposals of the Reform Party clearly glow through the Kremlin's ears. As regards the optants, or persons who left Estonia before the Republic of Estonia was created, there is really no need for a change of law. They had the opportunity to apply for citizenship after the conclusion of the Tartu Peace Treaty, which said that the optants were obliged to leave Russia during the year, but did not stipulate that the absence would result in the loss of nationality. Unfortunately, thousands of Estonians were unable to leave Russia due to obstacles to the Soviet Union. In 1922, therefore, the Minister of the Interior Einbund decided to consider all the optants who could not leave Russia to be Estonian citizenship. In 2002, the Administrative Court confirmed that all successors of the optants must be considered Estonian citizens. However, in 2016, the PBGB somehow took the view that if the person did not settle in Estonia, he did not become an Estonian citizen. Optante and their descendants were no longer considered to be born citizens and have begun to take it away from those who received citizenship. This requirement is not due either to the Tartu Peace Treaty or to any other document. Today, no one really knows exactly how many opponents there are left in Russia, but we must view them as Estonian citizens after birth. Birth citizenship is also wanted from persons whose ancestors did not live in Russia at that time, such as the Estonians of Abkhazia, who lived in Georgia, which was an independent state recognised by Estonia. About a thousand Estonians from Abkhazia have arrived here, 200-300 are still there. In 2018 even the Supreme Court and the experts of the University of Tartu, who found that Estonian citizens were only those who came from Russia to Estonia during the year, were rejected. Previous practice is not cared for and the decision of the Minister of the Interior Einbund is not even mentioned in these analyses. It is as if the Reform Party has tabled a draft legalisation of double citizenship to protect the optants here, but the Estonians and the optants of Abkhazia do not really need it, because they already have the right to citizenship at birth. All you have to do is formalize it. The Chancellor of Justice has also expressed the same position. The PBA just needs to change its behaviour, go back to previous practice. In summary, the Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support this draft, as unfortunately it is only pre-election propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U112	Thank you. On behalf of the Jüri Adams Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully agree with the previous speaker that the submission and processing of this draft is related to the elections ahead, but unlike him, it gives me pleasure. In particular, I do not think that everything that is involved in the elections is necessarily something that should be condemned. And if one party, probably because it has been dealing with more important matters for years, or even decades, at least in its opinion, has reached an issue which, in the context of the election campaign, seemed less important, then I think it is very good and positive that it has gone like this. People's representative Sults used inappropriate irony and sarcasm in his question, in my opinion. I know how to be ironic and sarcastic, too, but I don't think it's necessary in this matter. What is more important is that we understand the fundamental issues of politics: where we have come from, where we have come from and where and how we want to go forward. There is a certain methodological problem here that we obviously cannot talk about the level of individuals. If you are trying to quantify the size of the problem, you must say that the people that the Estonian state sees as its own citizens are now around a million people in the world. More broadly, the issue involves some 200,000 more people around the world whose citizenship is in dispute. And we can't start to give individual examples, we need to talk at a certain level of generalisation. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U114	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U115	And this level of generalisation means that we are at risk of becoming a victim of abstraction or a prisoner of abstraction. If the concept of citizenship is abstraction, and it is not very sensible to use it unless we understand what is in a particular country, in this case, in the country of Estonia and in our present time the content of this concept. This concept has also had different content in Estonia of various times and has different content anywhere else in the world. In a very simple way, I am now saying that Estonian citizenship translated into the language of a normal person means three things to a person. Firstly, that this person should be guaranteed the opportunity to settle in Estonia if he or she wants to. Secondly, he must obtain an identity and travel document from the Estonian authorities if he or she so wishes. And thirdly, he should have the right to vote in Estonia, the right to vote in elections, and the right to stand as a candidate if he wishes. And turning it backwards: if a person has these three things, but maybe for some reason he is not wanted to be recognised as an Estonian citizen, then I think a reasonable law recognises that it is an Estonian citizen. If we look at how all this is in theory and how it is in practice, we must admit that in practice we do not have very big problems with citizenship issues. How many people do we know who would like to live in Estonia and who are told that they cannot come because they are not Estonian citizens? I don't know any personal examples. As far as travel documents are concerned, the newspapers of the last few months have raised the problem of a family of Abkhazian Estonians and a solution has been found. But in general it has not been a large number of problems. I have also said from this speaker that the problem of electoral rights is perhaps the most painful among these three questions and affects the most people. There is one contradiction here that, theoretically, many people have the right to vote, but practically they cannot exercise it mainly because the Estonian state has been passive in their law for years, even almost 20 years, and it is not like to go ahead. Now, going to an even wider level, which has been asked about in this Chamber, it has to be said that there are two different approaches. One is the question of the relationship between the citizenship of the Estonian state and the Estonian people or nationality, i.e. who are our national companions and whether or not they receive the citizenship of the Estonian state. That's one approach. The second approach that certain political parties consider to be more important here is the question of this same citizenship, but not so much about Estonian nationality, but about the various people living in Estonia. Their political goal has been to give Estonian citizenship to as many people living here as possible as soon as possible since the end of the 1980s in order, in principle, to eliminate these differences. This is a debate; these issues need to be further discussed. I believe that the compromises found in the meantime, how Estonian citizenship can be applied for and how many non-Estonians have requested it, are quite appropriate for our time. However, we must take into account the fact that there are quite a large number of people living in Estonia, according to my opinion, about 100,000 people who are not Estonians from a nation do not want to become Estonians and do not want to become Estonian citizens either. Time is making me stop right now. I do not think that all these issues can be resolved in the time left for us. Complicated issues are solved in part at all. The easiest thing to do in this Riigikogu is to admit that the time when double citizenship is not recognised is forever over in Europe. At the same time, our national interests are not met by total double admission, choices must be made. In this sense, the Reform Party's draft is good. The right of Estonians who have left Estonia for double citizenship in the last 20 to 30 years could be recognised before the end of its membership. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U116	Thank you, Mr. Adams! Please, on behalf of the Group of the Valdo Randpere Reform Party. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U117	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I would advise you all not only to listen to Jüri Adams, but also to act as Jüri Adams suggested you do. That's what this is about, not all of them, by the way. We're few. There are few of us Estonians, and many of us have left this place in the last few decades. Yet the debate both inside and outside this house and in front of this house is with this undertone that we don't want to be here. We don't want strangers coming here, but we don't want our own people who have left to come back. Or at least we're not doing anything to make them do it. We have been accused of raising the issue of allowing double citizenship because the elections are going. This is bullshit. Forget it, don't screw it up! For the first time in my life, I started dealing with this subject seven years ago. The first move was to Indrek Saare, who was the Socialist Secretary at the time, and I tried to talk to him so that maybe the Socats would come in the back. It was then known that the Fatherland would not come, and there was no point in talking to the Centre Party. The Soots were ready to support when we give more or less to all citizens around the world Estonian citizenship, but especially to Russian citizens. And it didn't suit us. Urmas Paet came up with this proposal earlier than seven years ago, but about six years ago there was a specific draft. It didn't work either, the coalition didn't. So don't tell me we've discovered this issue at the last minute and we're campaigning. Although why not, as Jüri Adams said, one could do. But let's see what has happened and what has been said here today! Well, I also feel a little touched for different reasons. Double citizenship can be achieved in many ways. Some people are born in another country and this country gives them the opportunity to acquire citizenship by place of birth. Some children have parents of different nationalities. In this case, Estonia considers the child to be an Estonian citizen after birth, but maybe the country of birth of the second parent considers it to be its own citizen. There's a lot of opportunities. I left the Soviet Union in 1984. I escaped from the Soviet Union, I betrayed the occupying power. In 1986, the Soviet Union took away my Soviet citizenship, I was a stateless person. In 1987, I was a stateless person, in 1988 I was granted Swedish citizenship, without having any sense that I could ever have another citizenship in the future. However, I am accused of lack of loyalty, especially by EKRE boys sitting in the back corner of the hall. I mean, I left the Soviet Union in 1984 and betrayed the Soviet homeland, the so-called occupation power. And when I look at the history book that happened in 1984, Peter Ernits joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in exactly the same year. And now the same EKRE raises the issue of whether or not I am loyal. Well, goddamn it, which one of us is more loyal and whose loyalty is more dubious?! Whose stories are behind the Kremlin's ears? I'm freaking out about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U118	Easy, easy, easy!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U119	Let's have a look around! Let's see what our neighbors have done! We have actually taken this draft as an example of the law that has been in force for four or five years in Latvia. Exactly the same approach, just as the finite number of countries, and the law works. They have no problem with that. Postpartum citizens are entitled to double citizenship in the case of certain countries. Finland and Sweden allow double citizenship. Russia, Russia, is more or less like Estonia. Once again, on one issue, we have managed to be in the same value room as Russia. Russia is the same as Estonia. They also have a contradiction between laws, in fact, as if double citizenship were not allowed, but citizenship could not be withdrawn either. It's the same shit as here. Damn, is that what we want to do with Russia? Or do we want to take a small step? It has been reproached why not all countries are an option. There's no Oudekki in the hall, and now I'm gonna start talking about poor Oudekki. Sorry, I didn't see you, you're so small! Oudekki said that Japan is one example of the world, which is exceptionally opposed to double citizenship, one of the few examples, by the way. Sweden does not allow double citizenship with Japan, because Japan itself is completely rabid against it. But also in Japan two weeks ago, when you noticed the limits of migrant labour. The world is changing. Things in the world today are not what they were ten years ago or twenty years ago. Let's try to change! So we have so-called national parties against double citizenship. There's only one thing I can really tell you: keep your own! The Fatherland League or the Fatherland, whatever you are, you say, in fact, in the corridor, you have said that you could support this draft if specific countries had been mentioned. There are, in fact, specific countries, only that they are through the association of these countries: the Member States of the European Union. Which one would you like to exclude? Who would you like to mention in a separate law to support the bill? Be normal! The list exists and if it is the only obstacle, support it! EKRE's gonna be bullshitting his loyalty anyway, and I'm sure he'll find some crazy people who believe them. Then there is the government's opinion on this matter. The first time there was a bill here in September, then the government had written an opinion by Indrek Saar. And Indrek Saar wrote that when this bill becomes a law, there will be stormy demonstrations in Estonia. Andres Anvelt, who wrote the opinion of the current government, has basically taken the opinion not in principle, but has taken the opinion of Indrek Saare and made a copy and paste move. Then Katrin Raik came and invented two years of temporary citizenship. He's actually breaking the law. No matter what anyone said before, Katrin Raik is actually breaking the law. Our draft would eliminate this deficit, make this solution completely legal, and Alli Rutto would also receive Estonian citizenship for life. Why, then, do we not want to change the law and be law-abiding ourselves? Instead, let's look numbly when the Minister of the Interior invents some kind of new citizenship: temporary two-year citizenship with or without a passport? I have another suggestion: we will finish our first reading today and ask the government for a new opinion. I believe that Katrin Raik gives a better opinion than Andres Anvelt, who copied his opinion on Indrek Island. And something worse than that opinion, frankly, can't be. And all Estonians living abroad, you vote in the next elections for the Free Party or Reform Party or for all those who support the regularisation of double citizenship! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U120	Thank you. I would point out that the current Minister of the Interior is Katri Raik. Mr Ossinovski, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't planning on speaking today. This same debate was essentially held in September and the debate today did not bring anything new to this discussion, apart from the fact that the representative of the Reform Party has grown in flight within months. As a result, it is worth taking care of some things. We know Valdo and know how he speaks and that he is not a bad person in his heart. But the verbatim is written without any emotion, so it is worth repeating the facts. First of all, there was some way of pointing out that the Social Democrats would like to share Estonian citizenship with the whole world. The Social Democrats have not wanted to Estonianize the whole world in Indrek Saare's person or anyone else's person, and I find it inappropriate to make such accusations. I repeat, then, that, of course, practical life leads to discussions on double citizenship. The world has indeed changed and is changing, as Valdo Randpere said. And similar discussions are held in other countries. It is true that Estonia, together with Austria and Lithuania, is one of the most conservative citizenship policies in the European Union. It is also true that almost all of Europe has been heading towards double citizenship in the last few decades. And, of course, it is true that the current situation is causing very practical problems. And not only for the descendants of those who have never left the Republic of Estonia in the United States, Canada and other countries, and also in an open Europe, these questions arise more and more than a child has to choose between a father and a mother's citizenship. Consequently, I believe that this debate should definitely be continued. However, it seems to me that we are not yet in this state of maturity as a society in order to change the foundations of Estonian citizenship policy on this issue two months before the elections. There are different views among the social democrats on whether double citizenship should be allowed at all or not, as well as on how to allow it. But today, the Social Democrats have not asked their voters for a mandate to legitimise double citizenship. I think it is such an important question that it needs to be done. That is why I believe that it is worth continuing this discussion in the next Riigikogu and, suddenly, in the context of the approaching election campaign, political parties can express their views and ultimately reach decisions. After all, the aim is for the people of Estonia to feel good as Estonian citizens, even if they happen to be born into a family where one parent is an Estonian citizen and the other is a citizen of another country. Of course, it is important that our countrymen, who have once had to leave here, also feel in touch with Estonia. This is undoubtedly important. But I do not think there is any point, Mr Reform Party's group, in this debate to start slandering, taunting and disparaging other parties. In my opinion, there is a need to continue a sensible discussion and to reach a decision at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U122	Thank you, Evgeny Ossinovski! Valdo Randpere's address.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U123	Thank you. Good Evgeny, seven years ago, I started this discussion. How much time do you need to cancel this discussion within a reasonable time? That's my answer only. We have not woke up two months or two weeks before the election, it has been a discussion for years. Pull yourself together once!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U124	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 709 at first reading. I shall begin the preparation of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 709 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, 40 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal of the commission, against 38. Bill 709 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U125	We are going to agenda item 2 today, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act (731 SE) initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Enn Mere!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the biggest threats of the Estonian people is negative age. One good way to combat this is to allow free day-care places. After all, kindergarten plays an important role in the development of a child and can be seen as part of early childhood education. The kindergarten also contributes to the integration of Estonian society and gives the opportunity to acquire Estonian early. Estonia's survival is based on a successful and happy family. The state must contribute to a living environment where children are wanted and welcome. The Free Party considers that solutions must be offered that increase regional equality and ensure a decent life throughout Estonia. All children must be able to attend free-of-charge day-care centres and develop themselves in one free-of-charge community. A study of early childhood education and care also confirms the need for a close-home day-care centre. If the state compensates the municipality for paying the place fee for the kindergarten, the municipalities can in turn provide at least one free club for the children. The initiator of the draft act has noted that most parties represented in the Riigikogu, including the Central Party and the Social Democrats, have supported the state compensation of kindergarten place fees. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that every child has a free place in a day-care centre near home. Reducing the financial burden on parents in terms of early school education, care and maintenance costs. The aim of the draft is also to signal by the state that the family has been valued and that the demographic issue is considered important. The draft removes parents' obligation to pay the place fee for kindergarten. Some of the costs associated with the implementation of the law. The implementation of the Act entails additional state budget expenditure. The state must allocate the amount for kindergarten placement fees to local governments as a special provision. The cost of amending the law has been estimated at around EUR 65 million per year. We propose, as a source of cover, a reduction in the costs of the central administration in particular. We are talking about EUR 2.1 billion, and if we reduce this amount by 3%, we will have covered this cost. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U127	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U128	Thank you, good manager. Very honored Mr. Meri! I think the point of your bill is very noble and very reasonable. Especially in a context where all other levels of education are free of charge in Estonia, including higher education, it is strange that a parent must pay for early childhood education. But can you give examples of this in addition to the municipality of Harku, of which I am the head of the council? We have already started with this reform: families with three or more children have already been exempted from this payment and the rest have been subject to significant discounts for the parents of one and two children. And we're gonna move on until we get to free day care. Can you name more municipalities where steps have already been taken to introduce such an approach on their own initiative, not as a national measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U129	Unfortunately, I can't, but I know so much that this fee is very different. I think that the lowest amount is 15 to 20 euros, and I think the highest is in Tartu, where I think it is 70 euros per month.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U130	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good speaker! The idea is, it seems, noble and good. But there's a big difference between schooling and free schooling. We know that school education is compulsory, but it is not compulsory to go to kindergarten. If you now ask for a "zero euros" kindergarten place fee, how can you avoid all children being registered in kindergarten, but in fact very many are not attending or going very chaoticly, and at the same time the state is paying for it completely? How can we avoid such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U132	Thank you for a good question. It is already the case that 94% of all children attend kindergartens. We're talking about a very small group that wouldn't get that support. I don't know, maybe there's some solution that if a person lives in a place where there's no kindergarten, the parent would get some kindergarten compensation for not having a child in kindergarten. We haven't discussed it, but the thought came to me that maybe this solution would be fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U133	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U134	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This proposal is commendable in all respects. But my question is, why didn't you go any further? If the school doesn't have to pay the food money, why should it pay the food money in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U135	Thank you. I admit I haven't thought about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U136	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Enn Meri! The rapporteur of the Committee on Culture is Mr Heljo Pikhof, Member of the Commission. Please! If you have time to come, it would be very nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! On 3 December, the agenda of the meeting of the Committee on Culture included a draft law amending the Act on Pre-School Children's Institution 731. There was a debate, we appointed a representative of the Commission, we made procedural decisions at first reading. Almost all members of the Commission were present; Laine Randjärv was absent. The invited guests were Tiina Peterson, head of the General Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Liina Hirv, lawyer of the Legal Department. A few words about the course of the debate. As the initiator of Krista Aru, Krista Aru presented a draft to the Commission to ensure that each child has a free home-based day-care place. It is understood that kindergarten plays an important role in the development of a child and can be considered as part of early childhood education. The kindergarten also contributes to the integration of Estonian society and gives the opportunity to acquire Estonian early. Liina Hirv explained that concerns are understandable, but the Ministry of Education and Research does not support the draft because the process of modernising the law governing early childhood education has already started. As a result, in the last quarter of 2019 it is planned to submit a draft law on early childhood education to the Riigikogu, which regulates, among other things, the basis for financing early childhood education. In this context, solutions for free and compulsory early childhood education will be considered, among other things, so that all children can get the necessary training before school. Negotiations have been planned with all early childhood education stakeholders to reach an agreement. The aim is to establish national basic funding to improve the quality of early childhood education. As a result, it would not be appropriate to make the funding bases stand-alone and just before the initial education sector as a whole is modernised. According to the deer, the wording of the draft is also problematic in the technical and impact analysis. There is no analysis of how the draft would be implemented and what alternative methods would be to achieve the same objective. Tiina Peterson added that 94.6% of children aged 3 to 7 and 87% of children aged 1.5 to 3 are currently in early childhood education. According to Peterson, there is concern that some children will not receive early school education, and the Ministry has therefore initiated the creation of a new Act on Early Childhood Education, which will also be subject to a review of funding. The desire is to find a basic child-based component that would take into account the cost of teachers' salaries, support systems and educational resources. It is important to pay attention to the quality of early childhood education and equal access in all regions, which is why the development of different financing models has been initiated. Peterson explained that the 15% minimum wage paid by parents in Tartu and Tallinn is due to the great need to invest in kindergarten places. These are regions where there is greater internal migration and where there are also more children. As a result, local authorities have also had the opportunity to create new places. For example, in Tartu, the private sector and municipal sector are equal in this sense and this is a good solution to ensure equal opportunities for all. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits said that she did not support her idea that kindergarten should be compulsory. The best thing is for a mother and child to be able to spend maximum time together. He asked how quickly the Ministry was planning to proceed with its bill. Liina Hirv replied that the draft plan was to be submitted to the Riigikogu at the end of next year. Heljo Pikhof asked what percentage of children do not go to kindergarten. Tiina Peterson replied that when she met the associations of early childhood education leaders in different regions and kindergartens, it had appeared that there were children who had social problems, who were away from kindergarten and did not receive early school education. In addition, there is a group of people who are with the whole family abroad and are only coming back to school. Some parents prefer childcare before school. According to Peterson, the state's analyses show that child development and support for schooling before school is very important. In order to ensure the rights of the child and the earliest possible awareness of the problems, it is important that the child participates in early childhood education before school. Viktoria Ladõnskaya-Kubits expressed the opinion that families should be dealt with, not the establishment of a mandatory system. Heljo Pikhof asked about various options concerning children who are not in kindergarten. Liina Hirv replied that there were different solutions to the consideration. Parents are offered greater flexibility and the discussion is also ongoing on home learning. Various measures will be considered to support the development of children who do not participate in early childhood education. Krista Aru thanked the Ministry for its constructive criticism of the lack of impact analysis of the draft. He also pointed out that several drafts initiated by the Ministry had no impact analysis either. He also expressed concern that the Ministry's long-accepted draft of early childhood education would only be completed by the end of 2019. Krista Aru asked how much is taken into account in the draft working group that Estonia could have an Estonian language and a common education system. Liina Hirv referred to the fact that the draft decision in this regard is in Riigikogu proceedings. Krista Aru expressed the view that early childhood education does not require a change in part, but a complex solution. Aadu Black proposed to appoint Heljo Pikhof as the Commission's representative, to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 12 December 2018 and to propose that the draft be rejected. It was decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 12 December, but at the request of the Bureau and with the agreement of the rapporteurs, the first reading will take place today. The decision was consensual. It was also decided by consensus to appoint Mr Pikhof as rapporteur and to propose that the draft be rejected. There were 4 members of the Commission: Aadu Black, Heidy Purga, Toomas Väinaste and Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits. Three members of the Commission were opposed: Heljo Pikhof, Krista Aru and Toomas Jürgenstein. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U138	Questions for the waitress. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This is a pretty good draft, especially in the context that all other levels of education have been taken up by the state, early childhood education is on the shoulders of parents and municipalities. You, as the lead judge of the draft, certainly have a huge role to play in this process, and you and your party have also confirmed that such an idea is reasonable. If it were foreseen that this law would enter into force in 2020, i.e. it would not concern the budget for next year, which you think, would you be willing to take the role of a locomotive in order to transport the draft at third reading until it became a law? I understand that one reason for rejection is that the law cannot enter into force next year. What if we postpone it for a year? In a law on environmental charges, we did so, that would make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U140	Thank you. Thank you. The question is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U141	Of course, the Social Democrats support the fact that the parents of kindergarten placement fees and food money should not have to pay to make early childhood education free of charge. But when you talk about delaying entry into force, it is very important that the Ministry comes up with a draft law on early childhood education that has long been promised. But they said it wasn't until next fall. These things go together. I cannot tell you when this new draft will be completed as a law in the next Riigikogu and therefore the place fee and food money will be stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U142	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! All these measures, which you have read and which were also presented in the Commission, as well as the draft law on early childhood education, will be waiting for a very long time. That's a problem. But yesterday, the state budget for the coming year was adopted. Why does it not reflect the means to strengthen early childhood education? I think that the initiators of the draft would also be pleased with the so-called 'half-off' process in order to ensure the means to improve the quality of early childhood education. Maybe this step to go straight to free day care, the government couldn't take it, but a smaller step could definitely be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U144	Thank you. I do not understand the question now in this sense: what is so very wrong with the quality of our early childhood education? Maybe you can explain? If you mean that some children go to childcare until school, then of course they receive a different kindergarten education, they don't get the same kindergarten education as kindergarten children. But when we're talking about kindergarten, there are programs and stuff. Let's see what changes the Ministry will make.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U145	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U146	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! In spring 2017, when the local elections were held, we in the Reform Party in Tallinn put a programme on the same principle that the place fee for kindergarten should be abolished in view of the principle of education uniformity. There is no fee in comprehensive school, there is no fee in upper secondary school, and even in voluntary higher education, under the leadership of Minister Jaak Aaviksoo of the Isamaa, we arrived at the fact that higher education is free, more precisely then paid by the state. Why, at a time when higher education is like a commodity and a kindergarten place rather than a service that the municipality should provide, do we have such a reverse system? What is your assessment of when, or if at all, we in the country will arrive at this central solution? And as a socialist, will you support our solution in Tallinn so that it will pass through today's vote on the urban budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U147	I am not a member of the City Council of Tallinn; I belong to the City Council of Tartu. I cannot answer for the people who are on the Tallinn Council. As you know, a council member is free in his opinion, rather depending on his voters in Tallinn. Of course, it is gratifying that parents of kindergarten children are not asked for food money in Tallinn. That's commendable. When I look at Tartu, there's a lot of work done there. For example, in private day-care centres and municipal day-care centres, place fees are equalised, which is a big step forward. But until someone votes in the Tallinn City Council, my knowledge does not match. They still vote for themselves. If you asked for my opinion, I would support it, but I am not a member of the City Council of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U148	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I also have a question with an introductory phrase. Suppose we support this bill because it is part of a larger complex. We support the principle that early childhood education can be free and that the place fees in kindergarten should be abolished. If the Ministry now comes up with a draft concerning early childhood education, why don't we, as a Riigikogu, give a clear signal to the Ministry that we decide today that the draft will remain in the process and propose a longer deadline so that we do not have to take this into account in next year's budget? Let the Ministry come up with a draft on the content of early childhood education, whether or not at the end of 2019, but this Riigikogu has shown its fundamental decision on the future of our kindergarten children.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U150	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, no one in the Commission raised this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U151	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U152	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Yeah, I know you're not on the Tallinn Council, but I know you're part of the group. Then maybe you'll tell your colleagues about this message. I love that you support the same line in Tallinn. We have this proposal in the budget debate today. The place fee for kindergarten has increased steadily in Tallinn. Now the city hopes to receive 16 million in this way and this money can be used elsewhere. My question to you is maybe a little bit guiding, but would you prefer that this fee disappears sooner or later?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U153	Thank you for your question. But I have a request for you, too. Maybe you'll tell the mayor of Tartu to lose both the place fee and the obligation to pay the food money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U154	There are no further questions for the Commission representative. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are of the opinion that this bill could remain in the process. This could remain in the process even though he is controversial and there is another free thing here, which in itself is an unpleasant tendency in Estonia. But there's a little different circumstances in the game. In fact, we came up with a free kindergarten or a paid kindergarten initiative, as has always been the case, first out with us. We came up with this in the context of the municipality: the municipality could lose the kindergarten fees. And the reasons were twofold. First of all, at exactly the same time we also came up with an Estonian-language education and an Estonian-language kindergarten proposal. It is well connected with the general language and integration policy that children should be in the Estonian social network already in kindergarten. When studying in Estonian, language is also acquired very quickly, relations and attitudes develop. And in that sense, free day care is justified. Secondly, around the same time, a stronger educational science attitude emerged very strongly in recent years so that compulsory education could actually start earlier. We do not want to make a very compulsory kindergarten or start school too early, but we think that kindergarten coverage could be greater than it is now. Even if it is 94%, one form or another could be the interest of the state to ensure that children's schooling is evener. If this doesn't involve going to kindergarten, then there should still be some kind of contact with each child and checking that everyone gets to a level when they're seven so that they can learn with others. This attitude towards kindergarten has been a change for the last few years, including in our party. However, it is, of course, problematic for us that if we do so nationally, we will again take away one of the main functions of the municipality. Kindergarten could still be the role of municipalities; it is so community-based. If we also nationalize kindergartens, contact with local authorities will be reduced, the everyday perception that someone near home will also take care of something that power is close to home in some matter. We would not really like to see a reduction in the autonomy of the municipality. And now the next question is: how will it be financed? Are we really going to pay it out of the state budget, or how are we going to introduce it now? If we introduce it in the same way as the law, it still seems to be a violation of autonomy. That is why we have preferred the local government line from the very beginning. And secondly, financially, such state paying off is somewhat harassing the freedom of the municipalities. That is why we have resisted this financing scheme. In our opinion, this draft today is not yet ripe. How, then, can this funding be organised? So what are we gonna do: are we gonna take the biggest kindergarten fee in Estonia and start paying for that amount, or are we just gonna ban it from taking the highest fee and paying it at some lower rate? That's not gonna work either. So anyway, the issue of remuneration is one of the major issues of further development of this draft. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U156	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U157	And in the end, the logic is that if higher education is free, then you can't charge for kindergarten. Kindergarten is more a service than a commodity, as the classic already said today, and higher education is vice versa. Higher education is more of a commodity. So, in our opinion, this initiative in Tallinn could extend to all municipalities, and we could discuss precisely how we would finance it in such a way that the kindergarten fees in all municipalities will actually disappear, while the responsibility of the municipality for early childhood education will not be lost. Other, more or less, I believe, can be solved. So the proposal is to leave this bill in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U158	Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia's family policy has gone through a real revolution compared to the time of 5 to 6 years ago. Families with three or more children are receiving child-rich family support for the second year and, as of January 2019, the state will pay three times as much support to the first and second children of the family as in 2014. In addition, the state contributes to the activities of children and helps children whose parents do not perform their parental duties through a child support fund. The state budget for the coming year will provide EUR 300 million for family allowances. In five years, the amount has tripled. As a percentage of GDP, only Luxembourg spends more on family benefits in the European Union. I dare say that the significant improvement in the well-being of children, together with the increase in family confidence, is Estonia's biggest success story of this century. Yet there is a shortage here and there. Thus we continue to have children living in tight conditions, as well as children whose education is already bumpy from the countryside. One serious problem is that a considerable number of children do not go to kindergarten. According to the letters, 6% of children between three and seven years of age do not reach kindergarten, but in reality a tenth of our children are excluded from early childhood education. It's clearly too much. Yes, there are children among them who are taught by mothers and fathers with dedication at home and who later manage well at school, but many children who only grow up in their homes are not school-mature, go to first class without social skills and often need help. Nor can we overlook the fact that there are more children who leave school before 9th grade who did not reach kindergarten as children. Unlike school and higher education, kindergarten attendance is subject to a fee. In different parts of Estonia, parents have to pay different amounts for a day-care place. Kindergarten fees range from €10 to €20 to €70€80 per month, plus food money. Many municipalities have linked the kindergarten pay to the minimum wage and so the place fee for kindergarten increases from year to year, together with the increase in the minimum wage. For some time, it has been said that the minimum wage is not a suitable basis for kindergarten pay, so that it should be uncoupled from the minimum wage. The current regime states that it must not exceed 20% of the minimum wage. Although the majority of municipalities do not ask for the maximum, it is still a considerable expense, especially if there are two or three children of kindergarten age in the family. Not only is kindergarten pay paid, but we also have food money growing year after year. For example, the price of a child's calculated food day in Tartu is 1.6 euros, and one month's pay is 70.5 euros this year and 75 euros in the new year. As of April, the place fee in Võru was EUR 17, in Hiiumaa parish EUR 13 and in Setomaa parish EUR 12 per month. Some municipalities pay for kindergarten food. For example, Tallinn does so, where wages are at the top of Estonia. It is true that municipalities also offer a number of benefits. And that is how many parents calculate what makes more economic sense: either to be at home with children and save on kindergarten fees or to go to work and pay a large part of the monthly service to kindergarten. In turn, large price scissors between municipalities exacerbate local inequalities. It can therefore be said that the money required for a kindergarten place is the reason why some children do not attend kindergarten, and that the organisation of early childhood education, which is largely dependent on the opportunities and choices of municipalities, does not guarantee equal opportunities for children. When educational stratification begins at a very young age, it can affect a person's course of life. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U160	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U161	The Social Democrats agree that the whole education system is one whole from one end to the other and must be equally accessible to every child and young person. As education begins with early childhood education, which lays the foundations for the learning and social skills of a human child, it must be provided free of charge. This is what the Social Democrats have written in their 2019 Riigikogu Election Programme: both kindergarten's place fee and food money, with a total size of 65 million euros, will have to be borne by the state in the future. Free education from kindergarten to higher education is one of the keys to Estonia's success, which also helps to level out social inequalities. Social democrats have also made a constant effort to ensure that the pay of a kindergarten teacher catches up with the pay of a schoolteacher. In 2019, the state will provide 15 million euros to municipalities to ensure that the minimum wage for a kindergarten teacher is 90% of the school teacher's and that a school teacher with a master's degree receives a minimum wage equal to that of a school teacher. Appreciation of kindergarten teachers also helps to ensure that Estonian children are healthy and smart. The kindergarten is a place next to the home that creates the prerequisites for children to do well in school and to get on with their lives. Even in kindergarten, children get balanced and healthy food. The Social Democrats agree that the whole education system is one whole from one end to the other and must be equally accessible to every child and young person. This is a guarantee of the success of our people's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U162	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! As a representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I am very pleased first of all to say that there is a consensus in one way or another that early childhood education is the beginning of each person's education and early childhood education must be the first and most important step, the stage you want to take, which ensures that the child is not only a very good person, but also a very good citizen. We need to think about early childhood education, and that is also from a very practical point of view: money. We currently have a situation in the country that Estonian-language higher education is free of charge. So the legitimate question arises as to why, at this very important stage, the cost of parental money is so high. In early childhood education, many of the prerequisites are created for a child to grow strong, in fact, it lays the foundations for all the way forward. Why does a parent have to wonder if he can put his child in kindergarten, is that possible for him? The inequality of fees over small Estonia is too great. To solve for all of us, it is precisely so that many more children can have a very good start on their whole life's path. Indeed, we already have a very good level of early childhood education, but there are prerequisites for even more children to participate. Why is it at this stage that parents' wallet has to affect children's fate so much? This is not right, it is not fair, nor is it good for our future. Of course, there are still some raw places in this bill that need to be discussed. We really need to think about how not to violate the autonomy of the local government, how to make sure that the authority to make decisions is still in the hands of the local government, but the state can support the view that early childhood education is the basis of a person's entire life course. This, of course, raises the question that if we really do not this year, perhaps not next year, but perhaps in the next few years, we will be able to make this break and move forward, create a unified school system in Estonian. In my opinion, paying kindergarten places by the state is one of the factors that will certainly contribute to moving towards a common Estonian school system. I thank all the political groups who have supported this idea in one speech or another. I hope that we will finish our first reading, we will move forward with this bill, and it is in the spirit that this is not a political issue; the question is above all Estonia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U164	On behalf of the Black Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U165	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there was much talk about this law in the Committee on Culture, and there was, in fact, more consensus than is now apparent from the final decision. There was no denying that the area was of the utmost importance. No one dared to challenge the fact that the Free Party deserved recognition for bringing this issue to the table. On the contrary, everyone thought it was a pretty good incentive. The Ministry said they almost had it! Something similar to what you've done or done. But it's always a good thing they stick a little bit behind the ministries. There were, of course, problems which, however, eventually led to the adoption of a decision formulated in the protocol: to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. The reason for all these budget things, the authority matters... But once Chancellor Konrad Adenauer was asked, he was then almost 90 years old, how he changed his opinions. And he said, you know, a person learns a lifetime, it's never too late to change their opinions and get smarter. Listening to today's discussions, as well as to the solutions proposed, I am proposing the opposite of my own proposal, and it is never forbidden to get smarter. I propose that this draft be supported in the course of the procedure. I know this puts a hell of a burden on the Commission. We need to talk to the Ministry when they're ready, whether it's possible to merge the bill. I know we can't bring this bill to the hall so that there's only a title left, and that's all. And, nevertheless, after consulting my group nicely too, I propose not to reject this draft and to conclude the first reading. Thank you, Krista and Jürgen, for helping to justify that this is reasonable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-13_U166	I'm closing the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on Culture has proposed to reject draft 731 at first reading, and we must vote on this proposal. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 3 members of the Riigikogu, against 50, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. [[Let's hear it.]] First reading of Bill 731 is complete. [[It's ringing the bell.]] I will set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 2 January 2019. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 12.40 p.m.
