ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, if we can keep the buzz down a little bit, we can start today's session. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 6th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Since the anniversary week of the Republic is culminating in the coming days, but the work of our great hall here is the last day of the birthday week, the Tallinn Chamber Choir, Tallinn Rotary Club Sega Choir and mixed choir K.O.O.R. singers have come to visit us. We will begin today's session with the anthem of the Republic of Estonia. Everyone, get up! [[The anthem of the Republic of Estonia is sung.]] Thank you. Dear members of the Riigikogu, despite the festiveness of our sitting, it is possible to deliver drafts and hearings. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U2	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of yesterday's "Spectator" show, I am delighted to present an inquiry by seven members of the EKRE Group. It deals with the provision of general care outside the home, i.e. living in nursing homes, the safety of people, as well as how nursing homes are built and how financial resources are used. We have in mind that nursing homes have not only a social project but also a regional dimension. We will ask the Minister six questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U3	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted one inquiry and we will decide on its further proceedings in the Bureau in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Dear members of the Riigikogu, now is the time to take control of the presence. 71 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 30 members of the Riigikogu missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U4	We have a draft statement on the agenda today, with number 588, and its title is "Thanks to the creators, defenders, keepers and restorers of the Republic of Estonia." Liisa Oviir, a member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, "Estonia's people have not lost the urge for independence over the centuries. From generation to generation, he has had the secret hope that, despite the dark night of slavery and the rule of violence of foreign nations, the time will come again in Estonia when "all borders on two ends will bonfire" and that "once again Kalev will return home to bring happiness to his children." Now is the time. " Thus began the manifesto for all the peoples of Estonia, which was read on 23 February 1918 from the balcony of Endla Theatre. It was with this document that Estonia declared itself independent a hundred years ago. However, the building of the wall was much earlier in the process of statehood. An important sign of this route was the collapse of the Russian Empire in autumn 1917. After that, Estonian national politicians began to seek autonomy. I was so far off that my demands were made at a violent demonstration in Petrograd. On 28 November 1917 Estonian Maapäev declared himself the highest power in Estonia. A few months later, on February 19, 1918, the Assembly of Elders of Maapäev formed the Estonian Rescue Committee. Taking advantage of the tense situation in which the Russian troops were fleeing Estonia and the German troops had not yet occupied the whole country, the Republic of Estonia was declared independent on 24 February with the words of the manifesto: "In this fateful hour, Estonia's Maapäev, as the legitimate performer of the land and nation, has reached a unanimous decision with the political parties and organizations of Estonia standing under the rule of the people, supporting the right to self-determination of the peoples, and making it necessary to take the following decisive steps to determine the fate of the Estonian land and people: Estonia, its historical and ethnographic boundaries, is now declared an independent democrat republic. " How proudly those words echoed! Estonia managed to use a window in history for a moment, a window opened for a moment, and a legal basis for its desire for independence, a legal basis for its right to independence. Undoubtedly, these fearless men and women, who were directly at the birth of our country in the midst of the battle of two foreign powers, deserve the utmost respect. Already the next day, on February 25, German troops entered Tallinn and began the period of occupation. The Estonian Provisional Government met again on 11 November of the same year, but already a few weeks later, on 28 November the Estonian War of Independence began with the battle at Narva. The organisation of the Estonian people's army had only just begun. The main part of the defence forces was made up of Estonian officers participating in World War I and volunteers from school students. For example, Narva's Russian gymnastics were among the first to stand with a gun in their hands, against the Bolsheviks. The decisive victory of the War of Independence took place on 23 June 1919 under Võnnu and the final ceasefire entered into force on 3 January 1920. In this war, the name of 3588 Estonian soldiers was written on the marble plaque. On February 2, 1920, the Republic of Estonia and Soviet Russia signed the Tartu Peace Treaty, according to which Russia forever abandoned all claims to Estonia and admitted unconditionally the independence of the Republic of Estonia. Estonia had won an overwhelming enemy and also received de jure recognition from the international community. The construction of its own country was to begin from scratch in almost every area of life; it was necessary to build a young democracy, to push the economy forward and to support the development of our own national culture. The Estonian state was successful in this, but time was short. Nationhood was scarcely enough for a few decades. The Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, signed on 23 August 1939 between Germany and the Soviet Union, left Estonia in the sphere of influence of the Soviet Union. Soon the treaty of repressed bases was followed, which already brought tens of thousands of foreign military personnel to the Estonian surface. The tragic events of summer 1940 marked the end of an independent state and the beginning of Soviet occupation and red terror. The deportation of June 1941 is not extinguished from the memory of our people, during which more than 10,000 Estonians were taken violently from almost every village and every family. In autumn 1944 it was estimated that up to 90,000 Estonians fled to the west from Soviet terror. There were many intellectuals, politicians, and public figures among the refugees. As far as they knew, they left only temporarily for a few months, i.e. a year. In time, however, it became increasingly clear that there was probably no going back. By carrying Estonia in the heart, you laid the foundation for the exodus from Estonia, which, throughout the period of occupation, sought the restoration of the Republic of Estonia and also helped to find support and allies to restore independence. In Estonia, however, repression took place. Tens of thousands of people were arrested and despised. In March 1949, 20702 Estonians were deported to Siberia. The youngest of them was Anne Ojaäär from Hiiumaa for three days, while the oldest was the 95-year-old grandma Maria Räägel from Abja municipality. The melting period of the 1960s was followed by renewed ideological pressure, a new wave of Russification. In the late 1980s, as in the 1917-1918 period, Estonia had a new opportunity. The crisis deepened in Russia, and the Perestroika and Glasnost campaign was launched to overcome it. Estonia took advantage of the moment again. First of all, Estonia was united by a strong campaign against the plan to establish phosphorite mines in north-east Estonia. The proposal to switch to full self-sufficiency was then widely supported. The Estonian Heritage Society was established in 1987. In 1988, a joint composition of the creative alliances took place and at the end of the year, a declaration on the sovereignty of the ESSR was adopted on 16 November. Over decades of this storm, our blue - black - white national flags once again waved openly. On the anniversary of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, 23 August 1989, we showed the world our ambitions for independence in the Baltic Way from Tallinn to Vilnius. When I was 12, I remember standing next to my mother in the Baltic Way in Järve, Tallinn. And I remember this understanding that I'm a part of something big, I can be a part of history. During the coup attempt in the Soviet Union in August 1991, Estonia declared its independence restored on 20 August 1991. At 11:03 p.m., there was a historic vote in this very hall, then on the Supreme Council, where 69 people voted in favour of the restoration of independence. Once again, we were able to be united at the right moment and take advantage of the opportunity created by world politics to restore the independence of our country. One of the symbols of the Singing Revolution, the singer Ivo Linna said that Estonia's independence and the fact that we have been able to recreate our country is a miracle. Linda Erika Käramees, who celebrated her 100th birthday yesterday, who was forced to leave Estonia during World War II but is now back home, said that over the years Estonia's life has become so much better that it can be called a real miracle. He said he was happy living in Estonia. Why am I talking about this? In order to recall the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, a hundred years left behind. These years have not been easy. That is why we must remind ourselves of the miracle of Estonia, the wonder of our country, the wonder of our people's independence, the miracle of restoring our country and maintaining our country alive, despite difficult times. We all have reason to be grateful and happy that the day after tomorrow we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of our country. So let us remember our miracle, keep our miracle in our hearts, and keep our deep appreciation for it in our hearts. We are grateful for the independence of the Republic of Estonia and express our deepest respect for all those who have been the creators of the Republic of Estonia, its protectors, keepers and restorers. We acknowledge those who remained true to the treasures of our statehood, who carried our country in their hearts and who have lived their lives for the good of Estonia. Let us remember that our common goal is the continuation and promotion of the Republic of Estonia. Every person in Estonia has a major role to play in this regard. The words spoken a hundred years ago, which ended the manifesto for all the peoples of Estonia, also sound today as appeals, the more precise of which is difficult to formulate. "Estonia! You stand on the brink of a hopeful future where you can freely and independently determine and control your destiny! Start building your own home, where order and justice will rule, to be a worthy member of the family of the Kutura people! All the sons and daughters of the homeland, let us unite as one man in the sacred work of building the homeland. The sweat and blood of our ancestors poured out in behalf of this land demands it, and our future generations oblige us to do so. ♪ May God watch over you ♪ ♪ And bless the abundance ♪ What are you gonna do about it? My dear Fatherland! Long live the independent democrat Republic of Estonia. Long live the peace of the nations!" It is for this reason that the 65 members of the Riigikogu wished to initiate the statement of the Riigikogu, with which to express their heartfelt thanks to the creators of the Republic of Estonia, its defenders, keepers and restorers, and to express their deep appreciation and respect to these people. We ask for all your support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U6	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let me remind you that if anyone really has a question, each member of the Riigikogu has one question for the application process. Everyone can ask one question to a waitress, Liisa Oviir. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U7	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good waitress! Can you tell me what the strangest way is left out of this important text of the War of Independence? Perhaps future generations will have a tending impression that some wise men have anonymously created a document declaring the Republic of Estonia on 45,000 square kilometers and we are talking about its guardians. Why is this degree of generalisation so great, and why is there no reference to the Tartu Peace, which is the birth certificate of our Republic, and the War of Independence during which this Tartu Peace Treaty was won?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U8	Thank you. I have just given a quite long speech that mentioned these people, probably not all of them who have contributed, and there was also a reference to the war on freedom and its importance. Similarly, there was a reference to the peace of Tartu. The degree of generalisation of this statement is such that it would have been very difficult to do in 10- or 12-page form. Even then, there would have been a risk that something would be left out. I believe that it is very well understood: the content and purpose of this statement is to say that there are quite a lot of people to whom we have reason to be grateful here in the Riigikogu and the whole people. In fact, many have contributed so that we can actually celebrate the 100th anniversary of our country the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U9	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U10	Please say in your own words, can we, looking back in history, say that as our country, we have always been just and good, i.e. founded on the principles of the three men that Jüri Vilms actually most hoped for, sacrificing his life for it as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U11	Thank you. That's the kind of question that anyone in this hall would probably answer differently. I sincerely believe that we have tried to be an Estonian state at every moment. Our leaders have tried every moment to be honest and fair to their country and their people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U12	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U13	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, thank you for taking the lead in such a wonderful undertaking. Surely this is a very dignified and necessary expression of gratitude and deep worship for all of us. You said that 65 members of the Riigikogu supported this and took action on this matter. How would it have been possible for all 101 to sign, or how did it happen that only a few were part of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U14	Thank you. I believe that this is the same as always with the initiation of drafts, some kind of people get together, they work something out, and then they start collecting signatures from those who want to support it and be among the initiators. Since this was done under relatively time pressure, it was true that at the very last moment, signatures were signed here on my desk. I guess that was the reason. But all 101 will be able to support it today with their vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U15	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U16	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! A good colleague, Igor Gräzin, proposed to amend the text of the statement. For what reason, though, were these wise suggestions excluded from this text?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U17	Igor Gräzin did not make his proposals at the moment this text was drafted. I have heard that he made these proposals in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, this is already the subject of the Commission's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U18	No further questions. Thank you, good waitress. We also need to hear a presentation by Mart Nutt, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission dealt with this statement at two meetings. The first meeting was extraordinary and took place the same day as the draft was handed over, i.e. on 14 February. Why did we do that? That is because the statement will be submitted to the final vote before the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia is ours, and with great hope that all members of the Riigikogu who are in the Chamber will also support it, at least the Commission had such an opinion and idea. The main issues were decided at this extraordinary meeting: on 22 February, so today we have a statement in plenary and I could make a presentation. The Riigikogu Board also set the deadline for amendments on 13 February at 5.15 p.m., as the procedure for processing the application is provided for. Since the application is accepted at one reading, its interim interruption cannot take place. Secondly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs held its Monday meeting, which took place on 19 February, including. This time the amendments tabled by Riigikogu member Igor Gräzin were examined. There were two of them. Without considering the substance, the Commission had to admit that, unfortunately, amendments to the application procedure could be tabled by a political group or by the Commission, so we could not regrettably include Igor Gräzin's proposals in the table. However, the debate in the Commission was very much about whether this time that only the political groups and committees can put forward proposals is the right thing to do. There were many opinions, but we had to conclude that this is the case. Marko Pomerants, Jüri Adams, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laane, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb, Rein Randver and Tiit Terik took part in the final vote on the Constitutional Commission meeting and the Commission's consensus decision is to support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U20	Good waitress, there are questions. Jaak Madison will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to come to these two amendments. Of course, it is remarkable that a member of the Riigikogu is not able to table amendments on the basis of the current law of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure; only a political group has the option. So we also have two members in our current composition, who are actually cut off from the job. Do you agree with me that the two amendments were, however, examined in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the real problem was to take them into account or not, in particular, the first amendment which Estonia would apologise to those who have ever been harmed? The real problem was the content, not the technical-formal issue, that a member of the Riigikogu has no right to table amendments. I had the impression, however, that it was rather not intended to be included in the statement for purely political reasons, and it was not a technical issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U22	Thank you. The Commission would have had the opportunity to include, as its own proposal, those things in which the Commission was not unanimous. Indeed, you are right that the Commission discussed these proposals quite thoroughly, but the second question raised was that when we talk about asking for an apology, it is a matter of its own whether it fits into the context of this statement. As regards thanking the people involved in the creation and restoration of the Republic of Estonia, the Commission's position was that this is a separate issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U23	Igor Gräzin also has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U24	I think it is a matter of moral purity in our country, but I will read the amendment because there is simply no other option. And I want to stress that it has been signed by two people: Igor Gräzin and Krista Aru. The sentence reads: "The Republic of Estonia apologizes for all injustice and mourns those whom it could not protect. " Was there any substantive objection to this idea or to such a moral claim? Thanks, Mart!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U25	Thank you. Nobody raised any substantive objections in the Commission, but the question of how this form could take place is that I am sticking to my earlier response, which is probably the subject of a separate debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U26	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U27	Good manager! Good waitress! My signature should be next to Gräzin's, too, and there's more. But my question: what groups were the most fierce opponents of this apology and this point? Is it true that they were Social Democrats and also the IRL?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U28	Thank you. As far as I know, no group expressed any position against the proposal. At the same time, you are all, just as Mr Gräzin is, and Mr Madison is, members of the group. You could have tabled a proposal on behalf of your group if the majority of the group had agreed to it. However, such a proposal did not come from the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U29	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U30	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good Commission waitress! Did you also address Liisa's speech today in the Commission and discuss its content? Should we understand that Liisa's speech today is an integral part of this statement, like an explanatory statement? He said that he had a long talk today about such a selective approach to history and that it had all been explained. Did he give the exact same speech in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U31	Thank you. The Commission did not prepare Liisa's speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U32	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U33	Manager! Good waitress! Do we understand correctly that Igor Gräzin's proposal should be made a separate application form and brought here before Parliament? Are you guys okay with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U34	Thank you. If so, 21 members of the Riigikogu always have the opportunity to initiate the draft. Is that necessary? I think it's wise to negotiate first.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U35	No further questions. Thank you, good waitress. Now we're opening negotiations. I would like to remind you that during the negotiations, it is possible for the representatives of the political groups to speak in the process of processing the application and, if the Commission has a consensus, the representative of the Commission. Mr Jürgenstein will be the first to speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please, three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U36	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that we are in the process of an initiative which, on the one hand, unites all of us, or at least most of us, but, on the other hand, creates an opportunity for each party to emphasise its priorities in this spirit together. It seems to me that the people we thank are easier to comprehend than to think of a smaller unit instead of a society. That's why I'm starting with a reminder of my long-term job at Hugo Treffner High School. The student's favorite place is a large atrium, where they love to be on large stairs and benches during recess. It's a beautiful room, but I have a mysterious explanation for why students love this room. The tablets on the walls of the atrium bear the names of all the students who graduated from Treffner School. The dead, honorable greyheads, men and women at the top of their careers are already on the other side, and the searching students are symbolically in this room with the students. When I think about today's gratitude and who it would affect in my community at home school, the people on the boards will find a way to remember. The following is a few statements of gratitude and a link to my school alumni. I quote from the expression of gratitude: "The establishment of an independent and independent Estonian state has been the joint creation of the sons and daughters of our people and the ultimate pursuit decades before it was won. " The list of graduates at Treffner School begins in 1891. Many alumni dreamed in the 19th century, hoped at the beginning of the 20th century, and actually began to act in the name of our national independence in the days of World War I. Next: "The special recognition of our people belongs to the founders and restorers of the Republic of Estonia, who took advantage of the unique historical opportunity to win over national rule. " In fact, there is another memorial plaque in the school hall, where the names of the boys who have fallen in the War of Independence have been cut, but the alumni active in the restoration of the Republic of Estonia can be found both in the 1960s, the 1970s and the 1980s among graduates. We recognise the people of Estonia who worked and lived in their home country during the years of foreign rule and returned to the survival of the people. During the Soviet era, the Treffner School was named Anton Hansen Tammsaare, and the workers, scientists and cultural people who came to life at that time received a large portion of Estonian mindsets and a contrasting openness to the then closed society. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that the people we thank today have had different views. There have been conservatives and liberals, both on the left and on the right and in favour of very different political parties. At first glance, this raises the question of whether we, with such a broad-based sense of cooperation, recognise the need for different world views in Estonia, today and in history. I turned first to the Polish philosopher and thinker Leszek Kolakowski, who has written an essay on how to be a conservative-liberal socialist. Analyzing these three thought streams, he concludes that this is quite possible. I quote Kolakowski: "... it is possible to be a conservative-liberal socialist and, consequently, which is the same as these three words no longer constitute mutually exclusive concepts. But the reason why the great and powerful International mentioned at the outset will never happen is because this international is unable to promise people that they will be happy. " It seems to me that Kolakowski gives us a pretty good key to our party interpretation today. We thank all the people who lived for Estonia in consensus, and we disagree in a smaller or greater way on how to make Estonia happier. The Social Democrats have formulated the recipe for one person's happiness a hundred years ago. It seems to me that we have almost completed it today. I now quote the speech "What Must People Require of the Constituent Assembly before the election of August Rei to the Constituent Assembly in 1919? ": "The power of the people must prevail in free Estonia. The Republic of Estonia must be completely democratic from the roofbrush to the foundation: from the central government and from the municipalities and towns to the municipalities. All power must be in the hands of the people. A higher power of state must stand in the hands of a council or parliament elected by the entire nation. Voting must be universal and uniform, straightforward, secret and proportionate. All citizens in the Republic of Estonia must have the same rights before the law and the court in all matters. There must be no condition. The wealthy must not have any privilege that the inferiors do not have. " That is what August Rei said in 1919, which is almost a hundred years ago. Good friends! The Social Democrats join in the gratitude that belongs to all the people who lived for the good of Estonia, and hope that their decisions will always make people a little happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U37	Next, Jürgen Ligil will have the floor on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U38	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! It is certainly very appropriate and necessary for the Riigikogu to bear in mind today the anniversary of the Republic and make a statement on what unites us all. However, it is also appropriate to specify what unites us so that we are not wrong here. It is obvious that a third of the members of the Riigikogu have not signed here. It is not, in fact, as Liisa generally sounded from a sound speech, as if the 65 had been desired and others did not. The thing is, the others weren't given a chance. Technically, that's how it turned out. This is to be said in order to ensure that the next jubilee is not only a 200-year anniversary, but also some other joint initiative will fall out a little better and these walls and these people will be stored in it. We received an e-mail, i.e. I received an e-mail that said that the text is now ready, as a difficult compromise, and tomorrow it will have to be submitted. It referred to the signatures of the group presidents. I, of course, cannot go to my group and say that I signed a difficult compromise for you, in which I myself did not participate. I was complaining a little bit about the procedure, but the groupmates calmed me down, of course, that's the right thing, and that's the thing we can join. I gave my consent, but they started collecting other signatures, but they didn't give everyone a chance. So it was a mistake. Let's learn from this. That third did not intentionally fail to sign. Members of my group who have been excluded maybe the most are here. Now, however, the content must also be specified. We have now received this very scattered text as a 'heavy compromise' in the sense that there may be interpretations that do not suit us. Let us say this, then, for the sake of the verbatim and history: every interpretation is not suitable for our group. We do not want to thank everyone who has lived and worked in the Republic of Estonia in the context of this statement. We want to thank those people who carried the Republic of Estonia in their heart, fought for it, worked for it and restored it. We do not want to thank those for whom we have to talk about the restoration at all, i.e. who actually held in their heart a system that worked against things such as the preservation of Estonian nation, language and culture, democracy and the rule of law, and, for my part, the market economy. For a long time, our country was held in the hands of systems that fought against these values. Such systems, as well as the people whose hearts they were, are not to be thanked by this statement. So we will bow down to the values that the Republic of Estonia bears in its continuity, but not to what is borne by the intermediate occupation. We're going to bend over to continuity. I hope, in fact, everyone in 101 meant it, and that what's come out of the costaars was just a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U39	Aadu Black, on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Birthdays are not just important anniversaries for a birthday girl. On birthdays, those who are "guilty" in this birth are reminded of their parents, their creators, their founders. This statement, which is now being spoken of, is the face of this Riigikogu. We're different, yet we have a very large share of common ground, it's our own country. If some resolutions remain a little rounder, it is our face too. Today, thanking has been said more than apologizing. I'd fill that gap. I apologise for the fact that not all members of the Riigikogu were able to sign this statement, because indeed, at the moment there was an understanding that this was a joint statement by the political groups, after all, the rule had not been properly read. Indeed, I was the bad person who told Jürgen Ligi clearly and precisely: are you willing to join it on behalf of your group? I also thank Jürgen Ligi for making some pretty good editorial corrections that have been taken into account. But they didn't make a statement, they didn't make a new one, they didn't make a worse one. You know, history is a really complicated thing. You have to learn from history, you can't live in history. Our respect for all our ancestors, our respect for the creators is their understanding and recognition. But everything they did or didn't do, all these things, can't be brought to today. Their fights can't go on because they're from another time, and we may not want that time. We have all received life from our parents and we have to pass it on to no, not back to them like a loan, but forward it to our children. It's the same with the country. We have inherited this country from our parents, fathers, mothers, grandfathers, grandmothers and must pass it on to a new generation, to new generations and even better than what it is now. It is likely that we are also working here to make sure that one day the next great anniversary of our country can say a new generation: the politicians who worked here close to the end of the first century, and at the beginning of the next, did their job well. It's supreme, it's most important that we be as good as our parents. Generations perished, entire families perished, suffered. We also thank our parents for working in difficult times, because if they hadn't worked here, they wouldn't exist. Indeed, we also thank those who were forced to leave their homeland but kept the spark of continuity alive. The ultimate recognition is for us when the new generations say: these politicians worked well, they worked for Estonia. Long live the Republic of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U41	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, Mr Pomerants has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U42	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues often come to this chair, saying that I had no intention of coming here, but I still did. I was going to come here, which doesn't mean that my thoughts can't be a little freaky, because they reflect what they've heard in this room since 10:00. I have to admit that neither my name nor Sven Sester's name is among the signatories, but we both accept the speed that the drafters had, and we can use the opportunity to vote in favour of this statement. I'm sure that's what we're gonna do. I do not think it makes sense to talk about the fact that someone has been excluded from the Riigikogu's work today. I do not believe that this is a forced move, and, for example, Mr Tsahkna has been well placed to be among the initiators of this draft. Since I have such a double role, I am both the representative of the IRL Group and the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to add to what Mart Nut said that in the course of this debate we were based on the joint section that the groups had achieved with each other and did not want to begin in any way to undermine this goodwill or break the consensus. As far as Liisa is concerned, she did not attend this committee meeting, but this is not a complaint to her. The text of the statement was understandable to all of us, and there was no need for anyone to read it to us. I call on you once again to look at the sixth paragraph of this statement. "Our common goal is to go free to the second century and work in the spirit of national consensus for the progress and sustainability of the Estonian state. " Sincerely, I wish we could have this spirit of agreement on other days than just before the grand anniversary. I really liked what I heard a few mornings ago in Vikerraadio, where Marta Kivi was interviewed, a 106-year-old woman from Saaremaa. When Piret Tali asked him what he suggested to the current politicians, the younger generation, then the 106-year-old Marta said this: I wish young people were less inclined to go to each other. The demonstration is in all of us. When someone saw last night's TV show "Smooth Clean," we could say that Estonians could be very nicely inside Mexican, Ukrainian, American or Dutch. I have used the principle in my life that things must be taken seriously, but with joy. I recommend it to all of us in lawmaking after the 100th birthday celebration. Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U43	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Artur Talvik has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U44	Good vice chairman! Good people! It's a pretty fun day, kind of an absurd day. I sat there and thought that if it was our birthday, i.e. if it was someone's birthday, people would agree that someone would go and give a birthday speech, congratulate the birthday boy. Then the person goes and praises the birthday child, but then every one of us who sent this person to praise the birthday child grabs his tail and says, "That's what's left unsaid." Why didn't you say that again, and why did you say that with that thing? Why did you have such an undertone in this place? Okay, we can also say that there was no word in the statement about the right to self-determination of nations or the restoration of independence on the basis of the principle of legal continuity. There was no mention of people who participated in the work of the Estonian Congress or in the work of the Constitutional Assembly. But that's it. In fact, the point was to thank the Estonian state. And not to a country in this abstract sense, we are used very much to the fact that the state does, the state is, the country is some sort of abstract thing, but to a country that is all of us, i.e. our people, our ancestors, our children. We thank, thank and congratulate our people. We'd like to keep doing that. I would like our people to be even happier, so that our people have an even greater spirit of cooperation, so that our people can hold the Estonian language for a long time, so that our people can understand that this land with its nature and its forests is what has brought us here and should also take us forward, that our people are happy and happy and that we have a very cool and wonderful country. Long live Happy and Awesome Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U45	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Mart Helme is welcome to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U46	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, No visitors visible. I am grateful and our group is grateful to those people who initiated this draft. This is an excellent example that we can still find a certain political consensus. Although it has sounded from this remote control, I dare to use this maybe not the most aesthetic expression of the legal nose pecking, yet, we have come together and come together on the foundation that unites us the most: our national mind. I would also like to thank those who are not ambassadors of Estonian nationality. Their contribution was also significant in the late 1980s and early 1990s in order to restore Estonia's independence without blood. It's the nation state that connects us. On this foundation, we can build our towers out of social democratic towers, liberal towers and conservative towers. It's all on one foundation, and it connects us. I would like to emphasise one more thing that is not going to sound very much from this statement. This is the people of Estonia, the faith of the Estonian people and the dream of their country, which has been most resoundingly, poetically and most well-knownly expressed by Juhan Liiv, who gave up his only jacket for building the building and symbol of Estonia's theatre, the landmark of our nation and cultural history. That's all he had to give. It is the Estonian people who have created this country. It has not been easy in history to implement the creation of our own country, our own statehood. For a lot of reasons. One is, of course, that we have been surrounded by the greatest and stronger of us, who have mutilated our country, but we have not lost our nation. We have not lost our language, and we have not lost our dream and faith that on the surface of this nation and language we will once have a country. We've gotten this country many times. Our tragedy, which is why today there has also been a call to apologize and to apologize to those whom we were unable to protect, is a very simple reason: our nation has a regularly beheaded head. In 1217 the Germans chopped down Lembitu's head in the battle of Madish Day and took it to Riga, probably from there to Marburg, where it was somewhere in the Polish museum. We can say that the repression of the warlocks was also a beheading in the fight for national movement, self-consciousness and greater sovereignty. The Soviet authorities systematically dealt with the beheading of the nation. Yet, we are like that dragon, to whom a new head grows in its place when its head is cut off. It has guaranteed us that we now have our own Parliament, our own government, our own country, and we can thank from different angles from this remote control to those who have contributed to making it possible for us to do so. I would like to emphasise two things. Firstly, that this country has been made by the Estonian people, not by individual people. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U47	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U48	These lonely people have been members of this nation. Secondly, I would like to point out that today and the joint statement, even though there are procedural or legal shortcomings that can always be sought and found, shows, however, that we have a foundation on which we can stand together. This foundation is so permanent that we do not have much to fear from all the fiery political battles that we are having, among other things, in this Chamber. These battles are normal manifestations of the political action of a healthy, thoughtful, self-serving nation. Thank you, everyone! Unfortunately, none of us can take part in the events of the 200th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, we simply are no longer alive at that time. Maybe it is, I don't know, I definitely am not. [[Laughing.]] I believe, however, that we are all convinced that our descendants will hold far more festive and perhaps far more confident speeches in this House or in another Chamber if we do so today, because let us not forget: politics will never end. If this policy works in the interests of the Estonian nation state, in the interests of the Estonian state, and if the Estonian people are the organiser of this policy here on the 200th anniversary, then perhaps we have also made a small contribution to it. Perhaps some of us are also mentioned somewhere in the margins of the history book as guardians of the nation state. Let us believe in Estonia, let us fight for Estonia and stand on the same foundation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-22_U49	The speeches of the political groups have been heard, and now we can go to the final vote. Amendments to this statement have not reached the Chamber. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will give the Riigikogu a final vote of gratitude to the creators, defenders, keepers and restorers of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu supported the thanks, there were no respondents or abstentions. [[Let's hear it.]] Parliament's expression of gratitude has been accepted. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would remind you that the day after 7:33 p.m. the state flag of the Republic of Estonia will rise to the Tall Hermann Tower and this will be a festive event to which you are all welcome, and of course there will be further events. Good luck to all of us! Let us hold Estonia! Closure of the sitting at 11.03 a.m.
