ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U1	Good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 46 members of the Riigikogu in Question Time. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab, Minister of Health and Labour, and Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, will be present. Today is such a great day when I can give you the opportunity to ask two specific questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U2	The first questioner is Yoko Alender and the question is for the Prime Minister, Mr Ossinovski. Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister, do you think violence against women in Estonia is a serious problem? If so, you will be responsible for it and we will be responsible for it in this Chamber to try to reduce it. What should we do to shape the attitudes of society to help reduce violence?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U4	Thank you very much for this rhetorical question. Of course, violence against women and related violence in Estonia as a whole are a very serious problem. We know this because studies show that a large number of women suffer physical or mental violence during their adult life. We also know that close-relationship violence accounts for quite a large proportion of registered crimes. Of course, this means that the state must combat close-relationship violence systematically. This also requires the development of social attitudes, and I am pleased that in recent years this issue has been quite seriously national in focus. Another five years ago, you could say that when you talked about it, it was a man's beer table talk. We also know some ministers who have been responsible for this area and said that what violence against women, he has not seen it. We also know that the victims have not dared to turn to anything for help and there have not been any places, a system from which the victims could receive help. In recent years, the situation has started to improve rapidly, both in terms of attitudes and public services for victims. For example, the victim support system has now been legalised on a uniform basis, and in every county centre assistance is available to all victims. We have also increased funding every year. In 2014, we started financing it for the first time from the state budget, and this year the funding from the state budget has grown almost twice. We also know that several laws have been adopted, the Istanbul Convention has been ratified and changes have been made in Estonian law to implement it. So I think we can say that we have embarked on a systematic fight against close relationship violence and violence against women, which is certainly an important development.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U5	The first point to be specified. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U6	Thank you for that review. You also mentioned the development of attitudes. The word of the Minister of Justice certainly has a very strong weight here, and his word is equal to the law itself. Do you think the Minister of Justice, who, as minister responsible for this area, regretted condemning violence, should continue in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U7	Thank you. I have said my position before, but I am, of course, happy to repeat it. I think that Mr Reinsalu's speech was not appropriate for a member of the government, and there can only be one assessment, which the public has given unambiguously. Urmas Reinsalu has also acknowledged this and has therefore apologized. Of course, as a result, different people, citizens and political forces have also shaped their own attitude, which Urmas Reinsalu could do. We Social Democrats have said in the past that Urmas Reinsalu could have taken a statesmanly step and resigned. He has not done so, but there can certainly be no justification for his speech and the statements he made a week ago. Certainly in the overall picture, in the course of public policy, we have taken quite serious steps forward and we will continue to do so in the fight against close-up violence and violence against women. Several important new initiatives are also underway, such as the pilot project in Pärnu County. There is currently cooperation between the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior in order to remove the perpetrator from his home if he is dangerous to the victim. So there have already been significant improvements in this fight, and in this context, this type of speech is, of course, unacceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U8	Yoko Alender, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U9	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister, you are here on the prime minister's duty. In view of this role, do you think that the Minister of Justice should continue to act as a member of the government after he has done so?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U10	Thank you. In my previous answer, I have already answered that question. The law has given me no authority to represent and present his moral opinions and attitudes on behalf of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. So I speak for myself here, however, and I also answered that question in my previous answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U11	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I have been following your speeches regarding the statements made by Mr Reinsalu, in principle not to recognise violence. How credible are those words of yours in the context of yesterday's and today's statements with which you have instructed your group not to take part in a vote of no confidence on this issue? I understand that there is only one man in your group who dares to stand up for the values you have always promised as party leader. Not to mention that you are very clearly co-responsible in the Ministry of Social Affairs for all the violence that affects society.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U13	Thank you very much. In the Group of the Social Democratic Party, no one has put pressure on anyone to vote one way or the other. It is true that a member of the group, Mr Hanso, has said that he will be taking part in this vote. The other members of the group have come to the conclusion, after a joint debate, that they are not participating. But, of course, all of my group's members, I hope that your group's members will also be free to vote. As far as this vote of distrust is concerned, our moral and political assessment of Urmas Reinsalu's statements by all social democrats is undoubtedly unanimous and condemning. We have also advised the Minister of Justice that it would be better for him to draw his own conclusions and take responsibility. Now, with regard to the porridge that Mr Ligi and Mr Helme are cooking here, it is very difficult for me, frankly, to understand what values you share in this matter. I read that Mr Helme said yesterday that the reason they distrust Urmas Reinsalu is to ratify the Istanbul Convention. Andres Anvelt was the Minister of Justice who signed it on behalf of Estonia in 2014. We believe that this is an extremely important symbol and foundation in the fight against violence against women. On this point, the members of the EKRE have said that this is a completely unacceptable thing that degrades traditional gender roles and all that. I find it very difficult in this sense to understand the values you share with this political power. But since you have spoken before about seeing them share the responsibility of government with you, it is perhaps something that goes beyond public speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U14	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U15	Thank you. It's great that I got the floor! In my opinion, Mr Minister, you have no right to talk about values either morally or substantively. Today, the Social Democrats are completely lowering their flag, without voting on the most important issue of value in which you have been posturing here for years. And on what grounds? On the grounds that maybe otherwise it will happen that your unpleasant party gets into government or just a positive point. Do you not think that, in a situation where you have been pounding a drum on violence against women for years and now that one minister has, as you yourself said, boiled up the porridge without taking a stand, perhaps helping him to continue to be in the government, it would be great if you didn't say anything else about it? Never speak of values or violence against women again!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U16	There was no question, but thank you very much for your comment! You said we wouldn't take a stand. We have taken a very clear position, it is absolutely unambiguous and unambiguous. But when it comes to the words with which opposition parties intend to distrust Minister Reinsalu today or sometime soon, we are really quite embarrassed. I respect democracy in Estonia, of course, and that political forces have a different view of society and social groups, but to me very many of your group's and political party's views on women and their role, the treatment of different social groups, are deeply unacceptable. Yesterday, for example, a member of your party called unchildless women a barren element. You have also fought against the Istanbul Convention, talking about traditional gender roles in the context of violence against women. I really do not think that this is the Estonian society that we need. But, of course, in our democratic society, you have the right to think differently. Just so far, those parties who share basic values in society have generally thought the same way about these issues. I am a little embarrassed, because the so-called liberal party, the Reform Party, is going into the same boat with you on this issue, and I do not understand exactly what values are based on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U18	The next question is for the Minister of Public Administration, Jaak Aab. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, one of the goals of the current government is to disperse Estonia's rule across the territory of the country and to move a certain number of state institutions out of the capital. My question is this: do you have a complete view of the people who are ready to go to the province? I'm sorry to use that word! Do you have a complete overview of the people who have worked in rural governments or other local authorities so far and who would join teams of offices to be deployed? Does this entail costs, including building housing, adjusting the school network and related costs? Does the government have an overview of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U20	Thank you for your question. Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to respond on this topical issue. Firstly, I would certainly like to emphasise that this is a process. Indeed, almost a year ago, the current government set such an objective as a regional policy measure: in order to maintain the presence of the State in the rural area, in the county centres, and in the corresponding qualified jobs, the staff of the central government authorities, i.e. those jobs, should be taken out of the capital. This is done in different forms, in terms of institutions, structural units and individual jobs, which makes perfect sense. Many institutions make sure that when a job is released in Tallinn, i.e. a person leaves his or her job, the job is taken to the rural area or the corresponding job is sought there, especially if there is a representative office there. The Ministry of the Environment has managed to do so with quite a few jobs, going on this year and next year. It is not worth taking this thousand as a campaign and a purpose in itself. We want this process to continue. It certainly has a positive dimension. I'll give you an example. Recently, a parish elder from Saaremaa came here. You know that's where almost the whole county united into one. They announced a public competition to fill some of the jobs, and they also wondered: lawyers and IT workers, i.e. highly qualified specialists, were looking for work in Saaremaa. They have so far been forced to work in Tallinn. If there were jobs with appropriate qualifications on the ground, they would be happy to work in Saaremaa. There is certainly a signal for the future: young people, you do not have to come to Tallinn to work other than the university; you can also work in rural areas, county centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U21	Mart Helme, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U22	Thank you. However, I did not get a clear answer as to whether the government has an overview of the use of even the word "lists" of potential labour resources, potential employees in Tallinn and places, or no such lists.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U23	The ministries have presented me with the plans by which I stress, according to a certain timetable, i.e. last year, this year, next year's jobs will move out of the capital. This is the result of specific bodies and specific numbers, and it is a process. No institution or activity can be moved overnight, but the objectives are constantly being achieved. Once again, I would like to go to the government office with this overview at the end of February or at the beginning of March. By then, we will also have more accurate information about how many employees have gone out and how much is going, perhaps the timetable is clear. But yes, on 5 December, the government approved the plan submitted by the ministries for three years. There are over 1000 jobs that have been confirmed by specific institutions and specific numbers. At the same time, it was decided in the government office that we cannot simply be satisfied with this, but that we want this process to continue. A list was thus drawn up of institutions that could analyse their chances of taking more jobs out of the capital. It is said here that 13 main and central offices are necessarily taken out. In black and white, this is not quite the way we are still waiting for the answers of these ministries and institutions. That was a bit extended, I'll have them by the beginning of February. But already positive responses have been received: a number of institutions have planned to move tens or tens of more jobs out of the capital.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U24	Mart Helme, the second point to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U25	Thank you. The other part of my question concerned economic aspects. Is solving the problems of housing, schools and kindergartens and ensuring employment for spouses a problem for mobile workers outside the capital, or does the government have a plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U26	Thank you. The normal costs of removals within the institution shall be covered by the budget of that institution or ministry. However, there are one-off costs associated with redundancies, redeployment, perhaps also some premises, when we are talking about some sort of larger unit. These requests will be submitted during the preparation of the national budget strategy this spring. All institutions can do so if they incur such one-off costs. The need and the problems are now clearer. For example, the official location of the Estonian Geological Service is Rakvere from 1 January. And really, there is one problem that arises, that this transition takes place within a certain period of time, the availability of a dwelling. I very much hope that we can at least alleviate this issue with the housing programme. Cooperation with local authorities should be carried out in order to allow the construction of housing, apartment buildings, through this programme, which is run by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, specifically Urve Palo. In cooperation, the state would be willing to contribute 50%, and municipalities 50% of this is the general rule. These conditions will be further clarified for the new round.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U27	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U28	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I will continue with the final question. Yesterday, Anu Kaupmees Vikerraadios gave an overview of what was happening in Sweden. A similar debate has been launched in the government and Parliament to move public authorities out of Stockholm. For them, it is a very serious consideration that the removal of one post costs SEK 1 million, which is a very heavy burden on the state budget. You have repeatedly said that the transfer of agencies to counties is a priority for the government, although the government has not foreseen specific resources for this, i.e. the main challenge still lies with the authorities themselves. In summary, how can you still fulfil the government's priority in three years? What are the motivations of these institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U29	Thank you for your question. Such questions have certainly arisen. As I said, this process began last spring. Ministries and institutions themselves will be able to make plans, these jobs increasingly mapping out specific numbers: how many one-off costs, how much even small investment costs should be found. There's something for them, though. We also have a project of state buildings, which means that the state of real estate in the county centres will be adjusted. The institutions are very fragmented, scattered on different surfaces, and with the disappearance of rural governments there were also vacant surfaces. It is now possible to relocate institutions and also to take into account their space needs when removing public authorities. To this end, certain investment funds are also foreseen. The last time was both in the government office and in the National Reform Coordination Board, where all ministries are represented at least at the Vice-Chancellor level, to mention that ministries are submitting such requests during the drafting of the state budget strategy, which is now coming in spring. These applications shall also be taken into account in the implementation of expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U30	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, If the job disappears in Tallinn and is set up somewhere in the county where there is a person, there is no big problem with one person getting a job in the area. But moving people and all that can lead to an unwanted campaign. Suppose one of the 13 institutions really goes to the county, 150 kilometres from Tallinn. In this case, will you also calculate how much the personal transport costs of both the Ministry and the staff member will increase if they fail to bring the family there? After all, there will be a situation where you will have to pay for living in a state house and travel from one end of Estonia to another for the weekend to communicate with your family.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U32	Thank you for a question that is right and topical again. As we talked about, the geology service is one of the largest institutions that really go at once, as a whole institution, from Tallinn to Rakverre. The transition period is not easy; there are certainly problems that need to be solved. There are certain expenses. Just today I had a conversation with Kalev Kallemetsa, the head of the geology service. He was talking about these problems. But he also gave a positive example, supported by the current practice of the removal of institutions from Tallinn, that at a certain time quite a number of people are moving along with these jobs. Either they go to work there or they find a place to live. The final result is that about 25% of people will go along with jobs in Tallinn and 75% of employees will be found locally. Is there any way to find people? The same Kalev Kallemets gave a positive example. They had to launch a competition to fill three places, 50 applications were received, and most of them were from people who were completely qualified. So the choice is pretty wide. Many people are still forced to go from Rakvere and Kuressaare to work in Tallinn, because there are simply no jobs in need of their qualifications on the ground. If these people could work in their own homes, whether they already live there, have a country home or roots there, it would certainly be very positive. A survey was conducted at the Ministry of the Commonwealth: one third of 1,100 employees replied that they would be happy to work outside Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U34	The next question is the Minister for Social Protection, Kaia Ivale. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In 2012, a large-scale project for the development of SKIAIS2 was launched, which unfortunately ended with the bursting of a large bubble and reached a compromise agreement with the developer last year. The total budget is about 8 million, including 1.5 million for the so-called reanimation of the SKAIS1, so that services can be further processed and subsidies paid at all. It is very good, i.e. it is natural that no service or taxes must be lost. Let's talk about money. The last time we discussed this issue was in the form of a questioning last May. It's been a long time. I would like to know how much money has been spent on the development of SKIAIS1 and SKIAIS2 today, how much has been planned for a new procurement, which should end immediately or will be over, and when it will be finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U36	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! We are talking about this topical issue, because it is certainly vital to have this whole information system that will help people get the benefits and benefits they receive at the right time and at the right quality. I also dare say that the information systems relating to the social sphere are rather modestly developed, not very innovatively or quickly. And it is even pleasant that demand for services exists and that there is a growing perception that these services must be reasonably guaranteed. Now, from the money figures, how much has been going on for this development so far. In this review of what those sums were, I already gave in the course of my inquiry, I wouldn't repeat them. However, I will come to the numbers planned for this year, and I will tell you what amounts were left after the agreements were concluded. As a reminder, at the end of 2016, when it came to understanding and seeing that things were not coming together at the necessary pace, and a compromise agreement was already concluded, the contractor paid the Ministry of Social Affairs EUR 180000 in compensation. In October last year, when the new compromise agreement was signed, Tieto paid us EUR 270000 as a compromise amount. What's up? There was an additional agreement for critical works, minor improvements, which have now been agreed: they will be made to the end of the framework agreement. Maintenance work will also be carried out until the end of the third quarter of 2018. Maintenance works will be carried out for an amount of EUR 145524.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U37	Monika Haukanõmm, first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U38	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The other part of the question was not answered. It was about the future: how much money has been planned for a new procurement and when will it be finished? But actually, I wanted to ask you another question. Last year, the Head of the Internal Audit Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the Anti-Corruption Committee said that they would pay special attention to the development of the SAIS2 and that you would receive a report in November 2017. My question is what came out of this report. Where are the places of study and what must we pay particular attention to in the new procurement process?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U39	Thank you. The last question would be that I also mentioned small-scale works. Since you asked about the money, I would say that for these critical minor improvements, that is, Annex 3 to the Agreement, EUR 124476 is planned. Now, what's gotten into it, what's the schedule? As we said, at the end of last year, it was, of course, planned to launch a new framework contract. This was announced on 21 December and the time limit for tenders is 15 February. Then you can see what the bidders are, and you can start negotiating how to proceed. Right now, we definitely need to move forward with supporting base components, review this architecture. After all, we have family benefits, social services and parental benefits on hold, it makes sense to make them right into a new system. Like I said, there's money for this year. For next year's money, the state budget process has been agreed with the Ministry of Finance. Negotiations are currently under way with the Ministry of Economic Affairs to clarify these amounts and to revise the timetable. For example, on 6 February there will be a meeting with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to review this side in detail. In order not to have such a thing left unsaid, there is still so much of the amount that this year there is also a small development in terms of capacity reform, which is planned for the budget of EUR 134900. What is the more precise timetable for planning all of this? I provided the information we generally need in the spring. Once the framework procurement competition has ended, on the one hand, we can begin to negotiate more closely with the tenderers and, on the other hand, to look at how we fit into the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U40	Monika Haukanõmm, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U41	Good minister! I understand that the subject is broad, there are many questions and the answers are long. But I still didn't quite understand when this thing should be finished for good, so we can say: now the previous skiis is out of business and the SKIAIS2 is ready. I didn't get that answer. Let's try it again. And how much will it cost once and for all? Last week or the week before, the Deputy Chancellor Aaviksoo announced his departure, which inevitably raised the question of whether these things were connected. The comments and articles also raised the question of whether this is an official's responsibility for a failed project. This, of course, leads to the idea that, if the development of the SKIAS2 is just as complex and long-term, should we not, at some point, also talk about political responsibility. After all, many ministers have been involved in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U42	Thank you. If you ask how much this information system will cost and when it will be finished, the answer will be as in the case of the city of Tallinn, the information system will never quite be completed. You, honourable representatives of the state and the people in this Chamber, will take turns adopting new laws. Every law adopted creates this absolutely necessary assumption that IT solutions also need to be brought into line with it. I already mentioned family benefits. If we go ahead with them, the next issue is, for example, the pension reform, which will bring about the necessary changes. So the development of the SKIAIS2 is certainly not a matter of one or two years, and the cost of everything will be revealed in the procurement process. If I could say that now, that would be quite interesting. If you ask why one official or another leaves the ministry, the reasons are always different. In this case, a long process will be completed in our ministry: the management of information systems has been transferred to TECHIC. This information systems management organisation brings together the necessary workforce, who, on the one hand, manages processes, but is also able to enter these processes. A relatively small part of the field of IT development remains in our Ministry. So this is probably a very important reason and an answer to why people are also looking for new challenges and find applications elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U43	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, As Monika Haukamm pointed out, last year in the Anti-Corruption Commission, there was indeed the Head of Internal Audit of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who pointed out that a presentation of the SKAIS2 was being prepared for the Minister. I understand it's been done for a long time. It's been on your desk. It was then also mentioned that it should be brought to the attention of the Commission. I understand that this document exists. Please give me an overview! Is there really any place of responsibility there? Why was such a number of wrong decisions made, and why does this ultimately cost the country so much? And can the public be familiar with this report?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U45	Thank you. In terms of internal control and internal audit, we have split this work into two parts. One side is the provision of advice to the minister and ministers, which I asked for last year. Advisory work for the Minister shall not be public. This is the information on which the Minister can plan his further moves and ask for further information. As far as this audit is concerned, at the beginning of the year we revised the timetable for the audits to come this year. This audit is not ready, but it will soon be completed and will undoubtedly become a public document. As far as I know, our Head of Internal Audit has also met the Riigikogu Commission or will meet in the near future. When this audit is completed, it will be a public document in itself, but surely our internal auditor will also give the Commission an overview of what numbers, what advice and what conclusions there are. So, no doubt, all information on this will be public.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U46	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U47	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Minister, am I right to understand that your very specific proposal to the Riigikogu is to stop adopting the laws on SKAIS2. And as I understand your answer, we are probably talking about an endless period of time, just as the city of Tallinn is not finished, the SKIAS2 will not be finished. When we talk about IT developments in the field of the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have always received the answer from IT specialists that this is a very specific field. It is very important that specialists in the ministry are able to direct in detail what exactly needs to be obtained. You fired the deputy chancellor. So who's running it now from the Ministry? As I understand it, the institution that manages the IT system or the company that you did not mention may not be specifically informed about the real needs of the country, i.e. which services need to be obtained from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U48	Thank you. I'm really sorry, because you've got it all wrong. I'll try to explain it again. It is a natural process when we say that the adoption of every law requires corresponding IT developments. It's normal, and that's it. Of course, when adopting any law, consideration must be given to how quickly it is possible to do it, how much the costs are, what the time frame is, without doubt, to do it. But it is a normal, natural process that laws are passed and IT developments need to be made accordingly. Your second statement was that the Ministry of Social Affairs has fired one official or another. You have once again completely misunderstood: it has not been there. It is a normal process today when a person moves from one job to another. So it's not worth seeing any big ears here. Next, of course, it's important that the customer knows what he's ordering. The Ministry of Social Affairs has had different partners. There have been those who have been so-called better, i.e. maybe they have understood not a very strong starting point correctly and were able to ask the right questions, but there have also been partners with whom they have not done so well. In the case of SKAIS2, this was the second option. It is precisely what I described earlier, and what the Ministry of Social Affairs did last year, that created the Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre and brought together the competence, that the competent people found, that is the important work that had not been done so far. Such a very strong competence, as well as that which could be seen in the content, was not involved in the social field at all. The same path has been chosen by the Social Insurance Board when increasing its competence and finding the workforce, new people. They want to be able to write very accurately what kind of service a person needs for this service to be modern and effective. So it is these important steps that have been taken and the role of ministerial officials is somewhat reduced because this competence is elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U49	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U50	Now Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, answers the question posed by Arto Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U51	Thank you. Dear Minister, I want to talk about rural governments and their descendants today. I think that recent history taught us that politicisation of rural governments and rural elders was a mistake, and this became part of political trade. This was a mistake that led to a decrease in the functions of rural governments, but at the same time their political role increased. And all this led to the fact that the previous government already decided to reform the rural governments, which you have successfully completed. I therefore ask with concern about the regional services in the county centres, whose leaders have again been politicised. A large number of them represent coalition parties, this has been a place of political bargaining. Why did you also go down the path of politicizing low-level officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U52	Thank you for your question. First of all, my good colleague, the reform of the rural governments is also a topic that we have both been dealing with, and I have continued, even though we did it faster than the previous government planned. The regional administration department has begun its work. However, a great deal has been said about this: while 500 people worked in rural governments, 67 people work in all counties in the departments of the Regional Administration Department. Only the head of department is in Tallinn. All of them have been selected by competition. Of the 62 seats filled, 52 are employees of former rural governments, who are very specific specialists: planners, local government advisors, archivists. As regards the heads of the departments, a public competition was announced for these places in all the counties, as foreseen. This was dealt with by the Human Resources Department of the Joint Ministry, which set up a competition committee to which the Ministry of Finance's administrative leadership belonged: the Chancellor, the Deputy Secretary-General and also the Head of Department, who had already been elected by this time. And they made their decision by choosing the candidates for the competition. These competitions were quite voluminous because a lot of people wanted to apply for these posts, and I hope they were filled with qualified specialists. I don't know what to say about this politicism. I, too, have been asked if the former mayor can manage as head of service. Arto, you yourself are likely to have also presented the governors of the country, at least some of those who became Heads of Service. I think you were also considering whether or not they were competent. So this question is for the competition committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U53	Arto Aas, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U54	Thank you. We all understand that competitions can be conducted in any way: they can be conducted in an honest and transparent manner and in the same way as in Tallinn. There are also competitions, but all of them win members of the Centre Party. Thank God that at present not all the Heads of Service are members of the Centre Party. But I don't think the Riigikogu can be held in front of it. If you put your hand on the heart now, will you acknowledge the fact that the Heads of Service have been discussed at political level? I know it's been that way. I know that, at the request or at the request of the Socialists, this process has been dragging on for a long time so that suitable people can have a pleasant job in the county centres. This is actually a problem, because jobs at such a low level should not be discussed at all at political level, even the Minister should not deal with such jobs. So I ask for an honest answer, have you discussed these places with your coalition partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U55	Thank you for your question. I'm sure I'll be honest with you. Yeah, that's what caused the aziotage. Everyone had an idea, as you even said, that this was a descendant of the county government, and the head of the service is almost a governor of the country. I daresay that is not the case. The Head of the Office shall be a public official with very specific tasks. He doesn't have as much decision-making power or as many areas as the mayor had. He doesn't have an independent budget, he's a department of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, I was asked what was now going to happen because of this aziotage. So I'm going to be completely honest with you that I've been asked about this. Everyone took it so that, in the past, these places were divided politically, and now they're not divided. But there was a public competition, and the competition committee selected these people from among the candidates, as I said before. Yeah, you can ask if there's a socialist country leader in the department now. I don't know, the competition committee considered whether he was the most competent and the best candidate there was. They can answer that question. I think they were pretty good candidates compared to other candidates. But we should not politicise it too much on the other hand that a party member should not be allowed to apply for state office at all. It wouldn't be right either. I think I've been so funny about being part of a party, that it's a human right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U56	Arto Aas, the second point to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U57	Thank you. I agree, in principle, that party membership is not a disability or a constitutional problem. All the more, however, there are doubts about the situation where the county elders and members of the coalition parties win these competitions, but the members of other parties also have the former county elders and the very competent people, for some reason, thrown aside. All of this confirms the fact that this was a political choice for these posts, not an equal standing. This is, in my opinion, a bad political culture which has given birth to this new model, which I believe otherwise, from the very beginning, to one small problem: in very many places, these leaders are still seen as politicians, as representatives of one party, not as representatives of a country or of this county. I'm sorry it happened, but maybe next time it'll be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U58	Thank you for your question. I answered the first questions you asked exactly the same way: it was a public competition, there was a competition committee. As for how these services will work, I have studied this too. Väino Truth Forest is the head of this new department. He was also head of the regional administration department, but he had other tasks. Now this department has new tasks, and its employees are in the counties. In the near future, I will also meet their heads of service. Yesterday I went to Võru and met the head of the county department. We were discussing problems, and I'm sure I'll hold my hand on the pulse. Initially, the feedback from the Head of Department has also been such, taking into account this complex aspect, that questions arise all the time about the tasks that were transferred from the county government to the institutions and municipalities, that there is a constant need to advise and resolve the everyday current problems. Work continues. But I believe the services and their managers can handle it. If you can't, you have to make the next decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U59	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U60	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I am now surprised that the opposition ambassador may ask such a question. Do you have an Excel table that contains in one column the jobs that the county lost as a result of the reform of the rural governments and also as a result of the administrative reform, and the jobs created in the second column? I am thinking, for example, of the same departments, plus those posts that are actually created on the ground, not that the person who is already going to work there every day will now be reorganized. In which counties is this gap or deficit greatest? Where would it be necessary to pay more attention to this, or does this analysis not exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U61	I have a lot to talk about. Thank you for your question. There has been a lot of work to do lately. I myself have really contributed to this process moving forward, and I would add another table. Indeed, in the last year and a half, when the period from the beginning of 2016 to 1 July 2017 was mapped, the number of jobs in the public sector has steadily decreased. This number is 1400: 800 in Tallinn and 600 in rural areas. It will also be difficult for people who are working in Tallinn, but I believe that it will still be a little easier for them to find new jobs, given the labour market and their qualifications. It is more difficult in rural areas, and that is why the direction is taken that we have to bet on it. The public sector is tightening up in Tallinn. But what triggered this removal of state-paid jobs? In fact, the proportion of employees of the central government in Tallinn and elsewhere was compared, and this percentage of Tallinn had started to increase. As a result of the last decisions, it has started to decline again. So the percentage of employees of the central government in Tallinn is decreasing: at the beginning of last year it was 45, now 44 with something. As far as rural governments are concerned, there were a total of about 500 employees and, specifically, at the time of layoffs, 150 people were unemployed. Many of these 150 have already found work in local governments, although some competitions are still taking place and people are being recruited. The rest of them found work in public authorities to perform functions taken over by rural governments. These functions (e.g. population activities) were also taken over by municipalities and, as I said, 52 of the 62 jobs in these same services were filled with these people. The plan is not to reduce the number of people there. Another decision was taken by the government: all the reorganisations of institutions taking place in rural areas, where the number of employees is falling, must be coordinated with the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U62	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U63	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! When I asked the Prime Minister once how much these heads of services were going to get paid, he said very nicely: it is quite possible that they would not get more than the county elders did so far. Now you've read to us that their functions are still smaller than the country elders. They're not gonna get paid less than the county elders did, are they?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U64	Well, I guess someday the officials' salaries will be made public. As far as I know, the overall wage number in the counties is one. In Harjumaa, it's a little bigger, but very little. And the head of the department's salary is much lower than the farmer's salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U66	The next question is to the Minister for Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U67	Thank you. To conclude with our previous speech, Mr Minister, if you are trying to equalize the vote against the convention by beating a woman on the ground with her feet in order to apologise for her support to the minister who justifies it, it will show which cynical, two-faced and insane economicists are social democrats. You've exposed your face again, and it's just as disgusting as the face of a party that justifies a woman's beating. But now to the question. Vice-Chancellor of European Affairs Matti Strawberry told us in December that Estonia is willing to pay more to the European Union budget. And recently, President Kaljulaid of our Republic said that Estonia must contribute more to the European Union budget. Help me out: who, as you know, is involved in distributing taxpayers' money in Estonia? Do these people include the President and the Deputy Chancellors?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U68	Thank you. First of all, I'm gonna answer your first line. I have not specified the form of beating a woman in your party's members to justify whether it is done with their feet, whether they are beating on the ground houses or standing up. I have simply expressed my amazement at the views expressed by your party on the role of women in Estonian society. For me, these are rather 19th-century positions, which are deeply unacceptable to me. But once again, of course, you have all the rights to express your views in a democratic society. I will also answer your question on the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework for the European Union. As you know, preparatory discussions are currently taking place, which is why, of course, the Government of the Republic, together with the good Estonian servants, has also shaped Estonia's views on this issue. They were discussed in the Government of the Republic on 7 June 2017 and approved by the European Union Affairs Committee here in the Riigikogu on 3 July 2017. He discussed these views on the basis of the so-called thought paper which had then been published. There is no reason to panic, because formal negotiations will start after the European Commission publishes its vision of how the multiannual budget of the European Union could look in May this year. And, of course, the Government of the Republic will accordingly shape its position, which will be presented to the Committee on European Union Affairs and to which Parliament's support will also be asked. So let's take it easy. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U69	Martin Helme, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U70	Thank you. We're gonna take it real slow, but I'm gonna go back to our last conversation. If, in your opinion, we are talking about defending the traditional family model and gender roles, the equivalent of a man beating a woman with his feet and justifying a minister, and you support that minister, you are insane. I actually asked what the President is right to speak about our budgetary process and what the Vice-Chancellor is right to allow the public to do so. I suppose that there has already been some very clear signal sent out to the European Union that we are going to pay in more, even though we know that we are going to get less out of it. Perhaps we will not only increase the contribution, but also reduce the amount of money we receive from it. Why don't you explain it to us and tell the public what has been discussed in the European Union Commission and perhaps in some government office or other sitting on these amounts or proportions, i.e. what guidelines have been given?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U71	Thank you. Henn Põllaas said on 20 September 2017, when the Convention against violence against women was ratified: "The ratification of the Convention means war against a normal society and brutal violence against common sense. The Convention declares traditional gender roles, customs and practices to be violence against women." [[Laughing.]] Of course, that's your right and choice to use words like "crazy" and so on. I'm not using them, but you know what I mean. Now, speaking of the budgetary perspective of the European Union, you will undoubtedly... One more comment, however. You said in passing that the Social Democrats support Minister Reinsalu on this issue. No, I don't. As I said earlier, this was an inappropriate speech from a member of the government, and our condemnation position is absolutely unanimous. Whether, as a result, he should be accused of not turning the heads of the judges or of ending the policy that has been taken against violence against women, I will disagree with you in principle. I think that the judiciary could remain independent in Estonia, but you have a different political agenda on this. I really do not see any opportunity to agree with your views and opinions on this issue. When it comes to the framework of the European Union budget, I admit that this is a difficult issue. But a country that is a net beneficiary, both now and in the next budgetary perspective, must also contribute more in order to win more. Perhaps the parallel you have made that we are going to pay more and at the same time get less out of it, is not true because if the overall budget falls, we will lose more as net beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U72	Thank you. Martin Helme, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U73	Thank you. I don't want to get stuck in this Istanbul convention, but I'm just pointing out that your own party minister sent our partymate's bear up the ass. It wasn't very nice either, but no one moved their ears or demanded his resignation. You have double standards in any case. But I don't think I'm gonna get an answer to the question of what kind of Roman law our President and Vice Chancellor are making budgetary promises. I am simply pointing out that it has been mentioned that receiving money from European Union funds will decrease by 40% and our contribution will increase by 20%. So the overall reduction is 60%. If we are told here that we have received EUR 4 per euro from the European Union, which is actually not quite true, then in the future we will receive EUR 1.5 or EUR 1.7 for each euro that has been given. It could still be negotiated in the public, in Parliament and in the government before the President and the Deputy Chancellor go to honk. Don't you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U74	Thank you. This perfectly sound position has been negotiated both in Parliament and in the government. If the European Union's budget falls, we will lose more as a net beneficiary. If it is possible to agree that the European Union budget will remain at the same level or increase, then we will have to win it as a net beneficiary. But this is too complicated a subject to deal with in Question Time, which requires a little more time. I have about 15 pages of material here, which I am happy to introduce. In any case, it is completely unthinkable and it is in our interest that Estonia supports the fact that the budget of the European Union does not decrease, as the net contributors want. As a net beneficiary, we should definitely support the budget to remain as large or even growing, so that Estonia can invest more in the development of its country and society. Now, the question of what right or on which basis the President and Chancellor have, I assume, has expressed such opinions to Matti Strawberry. First of all, I think that the assumption of common sense is also appropriate in itself: it could be in Estonia's interest that we get more money from the European Union budget in the next period. I do not see that any political force should resist this. Maybe you are, I can't tell you that. However, these debates or thoughts have certainly relied on the positions formed by the Government of the Republic together with Parliament. Like I said, there's nothing to worry about. The official positions of Estonia will be discussed after the European Commission has come up with a corresponding proposal, which will happen in May this year. After that, the Government of the Republic will shape its position and it will certainly be possible for the European Union Affairs Commission to give its approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U75	Thank you to the ministers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U76	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts, inquiries or initiatives? Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! I have a very heavy heart before you, and my heart has been very heavy for more than a week. This is due to the speech and attitudes of the Minister of Justice. I have 47 signatures to hand over to the President of the Riigikogu, the draft decision to express censure to Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. What is the reason why we are distrusting the Minister of Justice? The immediate reason for our initiative is this statement: "I condemned violence against women, but now, in the light of today's letter, I regret this statement. " The Minister of Justice is responsible for reducing violence and can't regret having spoken against violence. Nor can he be derogatory to society and to many personally on such a painful subject about public speeches, and he cannot think of public resentment that he did not hurt anyone. In the fight against violence, the word is an important weapon, and the word of the Minister of Justice is of particular importance, because he is also shaping justice policy. By the opposition, the coalition and also the public of criticism, Estonia's political culture should mean voluntary resignation. As this did not happen, we consider it necessary to express our mistrust of Urmas Reinsalu from a specific case in general, which also concerns his long-term activities. We decided to leave it to the Riigikogu plenary because, as in the coalition, the assessment of all political choices, including those of Urmas Reinsalu, does not completely coincide with those of distrustful believers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U78	Time is...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U79	However, we agree that instead of creating clarity and order, he is a cause of confusion and he does not bounce back against the disruption of Estonia's legal continuity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U80	Thank you, Kalle! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U81	Thank you. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U82	I've accepted a statement of mistrust. We will act on it under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 85 members of the Riigikogu are currently present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U83	Wednesday's agenda. First of all, the Government of the Republic has initiated the first reading of the Act amending the Emergency Act, the Tax Administration Act and the State Defence Penalty Act 571. The rapporteur's initiator is Minister of Defence Jüri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Let me first...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U85	Minister, one moment, I'm sorry. Please allow the originator to speak!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U86	Thank you. Let me make a personal comment first. I am so pleased that the Act amending the Emergency Act has gained such broad interest from members of the Riigikogu as well as from the media. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will give an overview of the draft Act amending the Emergency Act, the Tax Administration Act and the State Defence Penalty Act. Our National Defence Act provides that during times of elevated defence or martial law, the state will be able to implement national defence duties, internal security and constitutional order or vital service obligations, at certain workplaces. A defenceal job involves the obligation of the person to work towards the employer and is exempt from mobilisation, for example. Under the current legislation, national defence labour obligations have been implemented in the public sector, but until now there have been no implementing acts allowing the designation and implementation of national defence duties in companies designated as critical service providers under the Emergency Act. The Ministry of Defence has developed a whole package of drafts describing the procedures for determining and keeping records of jobs with national defence responsibilities in a company providing vital services. This draft will allow employers to provide the state with data on a position with a national defence duty through the employment register and will provide for the keeping of records of these employers in the civil benefit register. This amendment creates the possibility to introduce the Government of the Republic's regulation on the creation of additional defence-related jobs and to implement them in the least burdensome way possible, as they can use the employment register, which is also used by most companies for other reasons. The amendment to the Emergency Act also provides for the central accounting of critical service providers in the Civil Support Register. At present, there is no central accounting and every ministry keeps records in its own administration. The current accounting system does not allow for the correct exchange of information specific to the e-state, which is why this amendment was also envisaged. It is possible to organise the exchange of information with the register of work through the centralised accounting system of critical service providers. Through the exchange of data, information on which employer is able to assign a national defence duty will move from the register of civil support to the register of employment. The amendments to the Emergency Act also provide for coordination of the risk analysis of the critical service provider with the Ministry of Defence. The risk analysis shall include, inter alia, the number of workers indispensable for the operation of the service. Such coordination gives the Ministry of Defence the opportunity to review the risks arising from the burdening of persons with their duties in the assembly of troops. The amendment to the Tax Administration Act provides for the creation of an additional data field in the register of work. In addition to other information on the employment relationship, the employer will be able to record in the employment register whether or not the employer has assigned the employee a defenceal duty. The third law amends the law on state-defence requisitions. The amendment concerns the register of civil support. In addition to the resources necessary for defence and support from the host State and information concerning the national defence enforcement, this register shall also include information on employers for whom persons working for the benefit of those who have a national defence obligation to work. As mentioned above, this includes records of critical service providers. Once again, I would stress that, if it was possible to designate a vital service provider in the public administration, we are now allowing a vital service provider to be appointed in a private company. Identifying those positions that we consider vital (e.g. mobile phone providers) as well as registering those who work in these positions. When a person leaves this position, he loses the right to remain unmobilised, and a new employee, a new specialist, is already in employment for this national defence post, who is released from the mobilisation obligation. I have been asked a lot whether the vital service providers are also members of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. I can assure you they're vital service providers. That's what I'm done with right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U87	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U88	Thank you, good Chairman! Good minister! Is it possible for us to approach this issue in cooperation with vocational education, in other words, so that young people at the beginning know that if they get a job, in addition to their daily obligation to serve bread, they have an obligation to serve the Estonian state in an emergency?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U89	Of course, all schools, both general and vocational, must inform students about their responsibilities and their rights in social education classes. I recall that in a large number of schools it is possible to study national defence on a voluntary basis, and more and more are being studied. It is important that, in the case of broad-based national defence, people working in the private sector must also feel very clearly that they have an extraordinary responsibility to the Estonian state in the event of a crisis. This is particularly the case, as has been said, for communications workers, transport workers, medical workers, etc. It is not the case that, when a conflict breaks out, soldiers will fight and there will be no other obligation. Quite the opposite. Today, when the military does not have specific infrastructure, many of these issues are resolved by private companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U90	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U91	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a question about the definition of vital services. You spoke earlier about the role of the private sector in critical areas of crisis. We know that such employees are IT specialists, communication people, medical personnel, transport workers. It's all necessary. How is this defined at law level? Or has the government, the minister, been given the power to determine precisely what are the vital areas of this area, so that it does not remain in the grey zone?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U92	Thank you for your question. The legal definition is very clear: the vital service provider is a legal person providing a public service defined as a vital service. These services, which are specifically mentioned, are 14 years old. I will simply mention a few: the mobile phone service already mentioned, the cash circulation, the supply of water, etc. Of course, every entrepreneur cannot simply decide from his own mind whether his service is vital or not. For this purpose, the law establishes such a mechanism or establishes a coordination mechanism under which the necessity of the service is coordinated with the Ministry of Defence. In such a case, the person shall be entered in the registers already mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U93	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U94	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand it, you, Mr. Secretary of Defense, I, the President, the parish elders and mayors are not going to the front. There must be, I understand, a couple hundred of us. How many more will there be who get a national defence job and don't have to go along with the mobilisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U95	Thank you. I have to say, unfortunately, that I cannot say this figure, because it depends in a lot on how clearly and thoroughly we can develop this vital civil service scheme, I am thinking of defining these posts. Everything about mobilisation is a state secret in the Republic of Estonia, so, as they say, even if I knew what these figures were, I couldn't tell you. But I will be frankly saying that we are developing these specific figures and positions. This job's on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U96	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question concerns private companies. For example, if a private company is considered to be a critical service provider or becomes a person in a position in the company, does this mean any additional obligations for a private company, I mean additional regular reporting, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U98	Thank you. This does not mean that there are any special additional obligations, because all these registers I have mentioned are already in place and work very well at the moment. In particular, it is the creation of one additional function or, figuratively speaking, the addition of one additional bird. Of course, a certain amount of work is required of an entrepreneur when the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with him, determines these posts, but for our part, we make it as simple as possible. Of course, it should be taken into account that a large number of private companies are already very clearly aware that they have important tasks in times of crisis, and, fortunately, we have not been dealing with a military crisis, they have also fulfilled these tasks. So entrepreneurs are actually very prepared. To a certain extent, an entrepreneur may also feel satisfied if his continued work is guaranteed by the approach of this vital service, otherwise it may happen that one good morning will be mobilized and his entire company will be empty of people at the same time. Of course, it is not a matter of a commercial approach here, but it is certainly much easier for an entrepreneur to plan the long-term work of his own company in this situation, because these individuals are also exempt from additional training during peacetime, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U99	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I also have a question about vital service providers. If now there are a number of private companies that still have to make a profit and come out of it, when their resources and services are used in an emergency, are they compensated for and how?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U101	Thank you. The current draft law does not provide for any specific compensation mechanism. It must be taken into account that the emergency and the crisis bring responsibilities to all of us. In this sense, it is not only about entrepreneurs, but it is also about those who are being mobilised, or also about requisitions, because your car, your generator, etc. may be taken away. In fact, there will be a pretty long list of obligations that are not directly compensated. However, it is, of course, possible to claim compensation in any particular case if this is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U102	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You gave examples of areas where these defence-related jobs are located. My question is this: if a person is an expert in his/her profession, will he/she receive any additional training to be prepared to apply this specialty in crisis or emergency situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U104	Thank you. Currently, the laws do not provide for specific additional training. But, of course, the Ministry of Defence, for its part, will certainly inform the managers of these companies, as well as these employees, of their responsibilities and risks, so that they know how to prepare themselves. So your question is very pertinent. Of course, these people must sense that they have a responsibility in the event of a crisis. It must also be understood that in times of crisis, normal working hours do not necessarily apply; it is likely that work will have to be done much more tensely and often in a more difficult situation than in times of peace.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U105	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U106	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a question about the registers. The civil support register has been written down in law, and now the employment register is being updated, as I understand it, by creating a data field. Are the existing registers that are in the Estonian state not satisfactory in their current form? Can the data that will be contained in the registers be cross-used by the authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U107	Thank you. We have selected a working register because it is the most extensive of the registers currently in operation. In essence, it involves all employees, both in public authorities and in private companies. In this case, it is private companies that are the main issue. We cannot look at this issue solely on a job-by-job basis. It is quite possible, and even very likely, that there will be one person in this position today, but tomorrow someone else, in other words, this release will move by people. So we need to know both parts of this equation, both the employee and the position. That's why the employment register was chosen. It has been discussed very thoroughly with the authorities concerned and they have assured us that it does not require them to increase their workload at all. As far as the register of civil support is concerned, it is a register that brings together data already related to this issue, but also, for example, all that concerns the compulsory burden on the defence forces or on the eradication of all kinds of civilian disasters. It's a register that we manage, it's a register that's under the administration of the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U108	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Minister. Johannes Kert is the rapporteur for the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U109	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen! For the 571 bill, I have the following to report. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft with the Minister of Defence Jüri Luige and the officials of the Ministry of Defence at its meeting on 16 January, before submitting it to the first reading. The main objective of the draft is to better ensure that national defence jobs are accounted for and that the relevant authorities are able to identify persons working in defence positions, including those providing vital services, who, for example, continue to carry out their tasks in the event of mobilization. Under current law, the national defence duty is applied only to the public sector and there is no implementing act allowing the designation of national defence posts in companies designated as critical service providers under the Emergency Act. According to the changes prepared, the vital service organisation will coordinate with the Ministry of Defence the number of defence jobs of the company providing the vital service and record the corresponding personnel of the company in the employment register. The relevant employers shall also be accounted for in the Civil Support Register. The amendment creates prerequisites for the establishment and implementation of the Government Regulation "Creating additional national defence posts at a vital service provider, procedures for establishing and amending the list and reporting data' in the least burdensome way possible for companies. The subsequent entry into force of the draft law, including on 1 July, is due to the fact that, by that date, § 53 (6) of the Emergency Act obliges the vital service provider to submit a risk analysis of the continuity of service and a plan and the calculation of the personnel involved. At the same time, the State must be able to receive the relevant information in the register of employment and civil support by that time. In this context, I refer to page 6 of the draft explanatory memorandum, where unfortunately there is one inaccuracies in the text on this provision: 1 July 2018 must be replaced by 1 July 2017. This is not an entry into force, but §53 (6) of the Emergency Act sets the deadline for fulfilling the obligation by 1 July 2018. Now for procedural decisions. At its meeting on 16 January 2018, the National Defence Committee decided to invite the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading (consensus). I was appointed waitress of the bill. At this meeting, the Committee on National Defence also decided to set the deadline for the submission of draft amendments, including 7 February at 5.15 p.m. (consensus). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U110	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Do private companies that become critical service providers also need to provide, in their risk analysis, that they have some kind of reserve people in these critical positions who could provide this service even if something happened to the one person who might otherwise fill this position in the company?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U112	When we discussed this draft in the committee, the question you tabled did not come to the table. I wouldn't be giving my personal opinion right now, even though it does exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U113	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U114	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Did you talk in the Commission about whether the positions we are talking about are in hundreds or thousands? I understand this is non-public information, but was it discussed in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U115	This is information that is probably not secret for members of the Riigikogu, but today it is not possible to predict very precise figures. There's probably a thousand of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U116	There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Johannes Kert! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 571 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 February. Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic wishes to discuss the written request of 47 members of the Riigikogu in today's session of the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. Therefore, on the basis of Article 56 (1) (2) and (2) of the Home and Working Rules Act, I will add this request to the agenda of today's sitting. This will take place as a third item of the agenda, i.e. after the end of the discussion of the 572 draft law amending the law on state-defence requisitions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U117	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on State Defence Penalty Penalty Law, 572 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U118	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will give an overview of the draft law amending the law on state-defence requisitions. The National Defence Act provides that, in order to prepare and support military activities, the Defence Forces may impose state-defence charges, i.e. capitalising on assets used in the civil sector in support of military activities and obliging companies to provide services to support national defence as a matter of priority. The imposition of sanctions may prove necessary in the preparation of military activities, in the organisation of mobilisation or additional training, in the organisation of the redistribution of state assets and in support of the execution of national defence tasks in crisis situations. The National Defence Penalty Act establishes procedures for the imposition and execution of requisitions in order to ensure the performance of national defence duties during elevated defence readiness, mobilization, demobilisation and, of course, martial law. National defence obligations relating to the taking-up or expropriation of property for the purpose of compulsory use shall be imposed and applied to persons on the basis of the needs of national defence. The penalties shall apply only until the objective is met. At the present time, the Government of the Republic has established a list of compulsory charges in the field of means of transport, but the current law does not describe in sufficient detail the procedure for imposing compulsory charges, therefore a draft specifying the implementation of the law has been drawn up. Now on the main improvements foreseen in the draft. An official shall be granted the right to assess the condition of the property before and after the imposition of the compulsory sentence and shall have the right to use an expert. Special conditions for the delivery of an administrative act are included in the Act so that the burdens can be applied quickly and flexibly. A mandate rule shall also be introduced whereby the regime for the imposition and execution of requisitions shall be laid down by the Minister to the authorities in the area of government. The list of assets which are indispensable for the provision of a vital service, which must not be subject to compulsion, shall also be included and the basis for the application of supervision shall be specified. The bill brings together the most critical changes, in particular those relevant to the organisation of military defence, in the determination and enforcement of compulsory sentences. The organisation of requisitions will continue, if necessary, in the framework of the review of national defence law led by the Ministry of Justice. Once again, we are talking about the imposition of requisitions. When we are talking about mobilization, as we all know, it is about the taking of reservists, but forced charges allow the state to take up all kinds of equipment, means of transport, etc. during the crisis. However, the law still had no record of how such a procedure would take place, exactly what is the administrative act by which the property is determined, the administrative act by which the property is taken into use, etc. What are the traditional means of requisition? These are primarily transport vehicles, heavy mining equipment, generators. There can be a lot of equipment like this. The Department of Defense is involved in the management of these lists and the whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U119	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We are talking about requisitions and, for example, the necessary things for the Defence Forces in crisis situations, such as heavy machinery: excavators, bulldozers, etc. It is possible for the institutions to verify on a register basis that the necessary excavator is present in point A, that it can be established from the roadworthiness test register that it has been subject to roadworthiness tests, etc., but it is not possible to identify from any register exactly where that excavator is located. I mean, a company located near the eastern border, in the direction of an important attack, may rent its excavator to Latvia or Saaremaa, and in a crisis situation, this excavator may not be in the right place. How will this overview work operationally?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U121	There's not a very good solution here. The main possibility is that equipment needed to perform specific tasks will be registered with a certain overlay. We cannot only take into account that there is only one excavator for an excavator position, but we must take into account precisely what you said, because it is possible that this one excavator cannot be used. Of course, we also have to take into account that when it comes to the reaction rate of the Defence Forces, our first reaction cannot be based on requisitions. I mean, there is a whole range of equipment that we inevitably need to get to the Defence Forces, but in later phases, requisitions are already very appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U122	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Has the Ministry of Defence considered an approach through the experience of "neighbouring countries"? For example, it is regulated in Finland that civil heavy equipment at important strategic points has been taken into the so-called "preferred register' and has received some tax credit for acquiring it, provided that the defence forces are always aware of where the machine is and can be used without a crisis, without a forced burden, or on major peacetime exercises.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U124	Thank you. I have to say I don't know how to answer this particular question, I'll find out more about it. In principle, of course, it is important that we know where this technique is. On the other hand, I believe that, given our financial possibilities, it is quite difficult to compensate for it financially. But I'm sure I'll take a look at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U125	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! We have done research on what technology exists in Estonia. According to the DMV, we have quite a few different cars. Speaking of more technology, we have quite a lot of long-distance cars, freight vehicles, but we certainly do not have enough cars with increased terrain and such techniques. I wanted to ask if in your vision the government had any intention of stimulating the acquisition of appropriate technology that the Defence Forces could use if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U127	Thank you. In principle, this is the subject you referred to, of course, relevant. Certain types of means of transport are simply not available in Estonia for civil use. The question is, how can we stimulate them so much? Here again is the question of money. We also tried to consult very widely on this draft with all interested organisations; it was sent to the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and Agriculture and, for example, the Association of Leasing Associations. So we tried to grasp as much as possible the expertise available in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U128	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, please regulate your mobile phones so that they do not interfere with the plenary session of the Riigikogu. The rapporteur of the Commission is Margus Tsahkna, member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U129	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's starting to get more people, but it's not because of this point. Before the first reading, the National Defence Committee discussed the draft with the defence minister Jüri Luige and the officials of the Ministry of Defence, including at its meeting on 16 January, and made consensual decisions to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 7 February at 5.15 p.m. and also to appoint me rapporteur for the committee. I will not open the contents of this draft because the Minister has made a very thorough introduction. I would like to say that this draft and draft 571 are very important. In our small country, it is very important that, in addition to this capacity, which is based on 2% of GDP, defence capabilities, the Defence Forces and the Defence League, it is very important that all this capacity, which is also in civil circulation, be in our hands in times of emergencies when there is an increased readiness for defence, mobilisation and demobilisation, as well as in times of martial law. This bill provides a concrete basis and creates the conditions for our real defence capabilities to improve. I consider it important that if the Riigikogu supports this bill, our Ministry of Defence will plan real exercises to make it clear what it would look like in real life. The law alone is not enough. In the past, there has been a "Cratt" exercise, where there were precisely shortcomings in the law. I am not talking about whether we have realistic registers and whether our people are aware and willing to contribute with their company's assets to national defence in the cases covered by the law. All of this must be made clear on a number of occasions after the adoption of the law and communicated to our businesses about all this. I would like to thank the Ministry of Defence, who has carried out an in-depth analysis of the legal issue in cooperation with several law firms. Any restrictions on private property are accompanied by constitutional clashes. This analysis has been very well and thoroughly carried out. May those who are interested be sure to examine! In the Constitution, we have also established that national defence is a very important part of our country's life. So these constitutional clashes are certainly justified. The National Defence Committee unanimously supported the completion of the first reading of this draft. I hope that this bill will quickly become a law and that we will also be able to apply it in real life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U130	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 572 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 February. Honourable Riigikogu, because our agenda has improved by one point, we need to make technical adjustments and members of the Riigikogu need to get acquainted with the text of the written request. That's why I'm taking the manager's break for 30 minutes. We'll proceed at 3:17.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U131	We will continue to deal with item 3, the request for censure on the Minister. Just in case, we recall § 133 and § 134 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. First there is the Minister's speech, then there are questions to the Minister (each member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question) and then there are negotiations between the political groups. The first to be heard is the representative of the group whose members have initiated a vote of distrust. Then there will be a vote. Let's get started. Please, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U132	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! Reverends of mistrust! The unsuccessful wording of my statement last week gave many the impression that I did not consider it important to fight close-relationship violence. I assure you, this is not the case. I want to express my views on the prevention of violence in this chair, in the peaceful atmosphere of the people's representation. When I introduced the draft Act before the Riigikogu last year on the ratification of the Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women, I said: "I want to stress that we are not ratifying this convention as one formal international obligation, but by ratifying it we are signalling within Estonia, but also to other countries and societies, that violence can never be a complex solution to human relations or a cultural norm. There is no justification for violence in any relationship. Another finding under this Convention is that violence against children or committed in the presence of children must be particularly deplorable, condemnable and punishable. And the third fact, the victim of domestic violence must never be left alone. The State must, with its assistance measures and the force at its disposal, tame the offender and alleviate the victim's suffering. " Everyone has the right to dignity and integrity. I am pleased that the Riigikogu has adopted a law protecting the rights of the victim as a legal framework at the initiative of the Ministry of Justice. In particular, in the case of close relationship violence, it is necessary to develop a system of voluntary supporters and to improve the conciliation procedure so that the victim is guaranteed assistance for as long as possible until he is out of the range of violence. There are still concrete steps that we need to take, driven by the specific nature of the type of violence in order to protect the victim. Firstly, the further development of a protection order so that it can be applied without delay. At the end of last year, we started a pilot project in Pärnu, the idea of which is one: not the victim of the perpetrator must flee from home, but, if necessary, the perpetrator will be removed from home. This project should also serve as a basis for possible legislative changes. During the review of criminal proceedings, which is about to be completed as a draft, a series of personal intervention barriers are being created against suspects. Still to protect the victim from specific violence. This year, the Riigikogu will have to discuss and confirm the new main lines of the state's criminal policy. This is the foundation of all anti-violent activities in the national justice system. It is important to cut the chain of violence. The complainant points out in the text that in many of the complaints I was unable to reach an agreement, while in the media or in immediate meetings these complaints have been unequivocally highlighted. I'm not afraid to answer those reproaches from this chair. The complaint that Russian has also been established as a working language in Estonian courts is not true. Judicial proceedings in Estonia are held in the official language. My unwillingness to influence judges so that appropriate solutions can be found on certain issues. I assure you that such influence by the Ministry of Justice or by the Minister would be contrary to the most robust guarantee of the rule of law, i.e. the principle of judicial independence. The courts shall exercise jurisdiction in the legal environment which the legislator considers necessary. The same criticism concerned the procedural decisions of the prosecutor's office. I confirm that Estonia has chosen the principle of procedural independence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The D.A.'s office, even though he's in the ministry's jurisdiction, is a quasi-justice agency. The supervisory powers of the Minister shall apply only to organisational supervision. There has also been a complaint about my actions in preparing for the ratification of the Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women. In a press release last night, I read that this convention could turn into a migration pump. I assure you, there is no basis for such fear. The Istanbul Convention is a value decision that assumes that violence is a social problem, not a private matter. The complaint that the impact analyses of draft legislation are not sufficient. I will be honest with you that progress has been positive, but the proportion of plans to be developed in the legislative process is not enough. I hope that the developments in the country's legal policy that are being prepared here will provide a positive impetus in principle. My support for moving the National Defence Academy to Narva has also caused problems. Yes, after the debate, the government decided that Narva would be established a college by 2020. I have stood and will continue to stand for the greater presence of the institutions of the Republic of Estonia in Ida-Virumaa. In addition, the statement has accused me of disturbing legal continuity. I honestly admit that this complaint is incomprehensible to me because it is not specifically justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U133	Would the minister like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U134	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U135	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U136	I hope that the questions can be clarified here. As regards my statement last week, I must say that this is undoubtedly a situation in which I must express regret. It has hurt people, it has also caused a situation in which I have had to explain to a very large number of people. I've caused people discomfort, and I'm sure that's where I have to express my regret. Honourable representatives of the people, I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U137	Let's continue with the questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U138	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You started by saying that you had failed to speak. Well, I guess everyone's gonna agree. We politicians may all face situations where the choice of words goes wrong in some way, but as a rule it applies to verbal discussion. In this case, it was a written text. You sat down, wrote down the words, probably counted them a few times. I have these questions. How long was this text prepared? When was this text prepared? Was this text prepared at the instigation of someone, or was it the thought of your own mind? Why am I asking all this? I personally and very many other people have the impression that this was a cynically calculated provocation, which was now followed by a calculated excuse. There was no very sincere use of words in one case or another. Maybe you'll dispel my suspicions a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U139	Yes, thank you! Yesterday, in the EKRE Group, you also asked whether to express this position, to make this statement, I was actually influenced by the Office of the President of the Republic to bring the President of the Republic out of the so-called fire. I answered you yesterday and I will also answer from this chair: no, that was my own position. I am sorry that the core of this message, which actually concerned the issue of forgiveness in society, has remained completely... This use of words actually killed this debate on the subject. But, yeah, I wrote it for my feelings, I did it this morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U140	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U141	Thank you. Good minister! I, too, am convinced that there was nothing random in your statement. You are a highly experienced politician, you master political technologies very well, you are one of the most experienced people in this government. I think it was a well-considered step. You were expecting a certain reaction, but you underestimated the strength of the reaction or the resulting wave. After all, the excuses in the first few days were quite shaky, even patronizing, but this morning they have gained the strength to restrain those coalition members who were actually ready and are perhaps ready to come with mistrust today. Do you not think that you have, however, significantly weakened the credibility of the Minister of Justice as an institution and that it will be very difficult for you to carry out this work in the future, even if you remain in office after today's vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U142	I'm sure there's a place here for my many explanations. I actually, without being condescending or ironic, would like to thank you for the possibility that I can explain my actual positions to the representative of the people. As regards whether this was, as you said, a political technological position, I am telling you that this was not the case. But you certainly have a position on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U143	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U144	Thank you. Good Minister of Justice! I recall 2011 and personal experience. I think that there are also gatherings of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice and top leaders in this area, as was the case at the time. It reminds me that at a meeting like this, a high police officer said in a pretty loud voice that what we're doing with this domestic violence isn't gonna change anything anyway. These words actually gave rise to a change in Estonia. The DA's office didn't stop, the police started training their staff, the social system started operating. In fact, here comes the understanding that the words and weight of the Minister of Justice create this trust, trust between the victim and the state. All of a sudden, more reports of such incidents began and have been increasing over the years. My question: do you admit that your words have harmed this fight, that they have undermined that trust, and do you think it is appropriate for you to continue in your profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U145	I want to say, as I have repeatedly said, that this statement has not succeeded. Unfortunately, however, I cannot agree with the words that are being put in my mouth. I heard the Riigikogu in Question Time say, when he asked Mr Kruus, that I did not admit violence in my statement. I have never expressed such views under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U146	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U147	Thank you. Mr Minister, I do not reproach you for speaking or making a statement. I blame you for the context, the position and the estimate. The cause of my distrust is wider. This concerns your constant game of truth and right for political gain. I have a question for you as a legal person for a change. Please tell me the legal basis on which you gave money to the church called into question the rules of property reform and finance. Why did you speak as a justification for the occupation damage and the payment of bonds? This is something that the Minister of Justice should associate Estonia with the legal succession. What is this legal basis? Have you heard any objections to this, or are you very pleased with this design?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U148	During this government, several steps have been taken to complete the ownership reform. The first step was definitely centralising the latest files to the Ministry of Finance. Hopefully, at the beginning of this year, a central committee will also be set up with the Ministry of Finance to process these files. There are a number of disputes, including one dispute over one case, one long, decades-long dispute. I think that the Government's will to resolve in a dignified way the latest complex and sensitive problems that have not been resolved over the decades is certainly not linked to the undermining of the ideology of property reform. After all, the whole point of ownership reform is to restore the right of those who have been deprived of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U149	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Reinsalu! This case we are discussing today is an inappropriate case of speech. But last year, one of the editorials of the Estonian Express was dedicated to your person, and it considered one of your personal attributes as a minister. The essence was that you often have a lot of flying ideas, but they end up unfathomable or bad at all. We had a number of such cases listed. I would add to that list the funding of political parties, which was increased on your behalf in the past, but nevertheless, as the chairman of the party, you ended up in debt. In view of the credibility of the Minister of Justice, my request is as follows: please tell me what the personal characteristics of the Minister of Justice are. How must the Minister of Justice act as an example provider for society?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U151	I think it is the duty of the Minister of Justice, first of all, to stand up for the rule of law. Secondly, it must ensure that the legal system functions without political influence. This is a prerequisite for us to be able to talk about the realisation of the rule of law, which is the main task of the Ministry of Justice. Now, Andres, about this very serious question you've asked me about the funding of political parties. I remember that the money allocated to the parties was tripled even when you were in the government coalition in your time, you made that decision. This amount was increased from EEK 6 million to EEK 20 million. Indeed, the next tripling took place in 2003. It has been a question of controversy as to whether it has actually caused over-eating parties. I mean all the criticism that the Free Party has made. But I want to say that there was another important dimension to the reform of political party funding. It was that the donations of legal persons to political parties were banned. We tend to forget that. I remembered a radio show where it was also criticised. There Siim Kallas said: "Jesus Maria, what temptations the Estonian political system would have had if this channel had not been closed! " From time to time, there have been debates about whether or not to open it. But I think that if we appreciate this half of the human life that has been banned, then it can be said that society's transparency has won rather than lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U152	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U153	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Experts in close - to - relationship violence have said that on average the victim lets himself be hit 33 times before he goes to ask for help. The reason why they let themselves be hit so many times before asking for help is that most of the violencer looks sadly at the victim the next day and asks for forgiveness. At the same time, an article is published where the Minister of Justice says at title level that he regrets that he condemned violence. You justify it because society must forgive, you ask for mercy. But what do you recommend to the victims of violence? Should we forgive after the first hit, or should we wait for the second and third time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U154	Thank you. Good questioner, I hope you didn't want to put words in my mouth. I have not expressed the idea anywhere that forgiveness is to forgive an evil act against the dignity, physical or mental integrity of a person. I am making it clear that no human must be alone in this situation. The entire national justice system, the social assistance system, the reforms that we have just initiated to combat close-relationship violence, are designed to ensure that there is someone next to the person, that the state is next to the person, if an evil act is committed against him. My message is very simple and clear: violence is not a private matter; violence is a social matter. This means that those against whom an evil act has been committed must not accept it under any circumstances. You're asking when the victim needs to react. Unfortunately, we have seen how strong the chain of recidivism is in the case of close relationship violence. Statistics show that others follow the first evil act.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U155	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U156	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, After your statement you expressed regret in the media in style that, well, didn't turn out so well. This morning, an apology appeared in the media, which made the heart of our good colleague Oudekki Loone generous among others. You had a week to apologize. Yet you did this only this morning, after yesterday it became clear that yes, a motion of mistrust would come. Does it have to be understood that if yesterday it had not become clear that a motion of mistrust would be firm, today's apology would not have come?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U157	I would have, I'll tell you the truth. A few hours after I made my statement, I apologized. That apology was truly sincere. Today I wanted to give a more complete explanation, among other things, about what the country has done or is doing in the fight against violence. I mentioned these steps only in a conspicuity, but speaking time is limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U158	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U159	Thank you. Dear Minister, You are the Minister of Justice, you are a public official directly responsible for preventing violence. Now you are in a conflict of value. I am not talking here about how you formulate your texts and reject your words with excuses. I'm saying you tried to cut political professionalism from constant value. The Minister of Justice and the remorse for condemning violence, these things don't fit together. Can, in principle, a minister in such a conflict of value be trusted or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U160	If my position were such that I was entitled to violence, if I were to express an ambiguous view of violence or of the attitude of the state institutions in this matter, then of course such a minister of justice could not be trusted in the rule of law. I made a statement. I have spoken about its context and its idea and I am not going to stop here for a long time. Everyone, including those who have expressed their mistrust, must have been familiar with its contents, as well as with my subsequent comments. But I would like to say once again that in the fight to combat violence, I am, of course, on the side of the front line with you and with all the honest people who consider this to be a serious social problem and a re-launch of the spiral of violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U161	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U162	Thank you. Good Minister of Justice! This debate's getting pretty thick in here. I think it's a little bit in your best interest that the focus of the debate dissipates. I'm gonna ask you straight again, though. Have you really realized that you've screwed up, that the lines that you deliberately wrote down, you did it with a very conscious spirit, with which you regretted the condemnation of violence, have caused a very serious crackdown on the trust of so many people, not only personally against you, but also against the Ministry of Justice, who is involved in the implementation of the development plan on reducing violence and the fight against violence? Do you really understand this problem? Do you realize that it is very difficult for people who are active in this field to trust you in the future? Your own coalition partners don't really trust you. Don't you think it's right that you can't continue as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U163	Thank you. I've given my explanations on this. As regards whether the wording of this statement was such that I have reason to explain, of course, I have done so, and I am glad that I can do so in the speech chair of the representative of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U164	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I wanted to ask you that. In fact, I have been following all your speeches and all your half-word or half-spirited excuses, but I have not understood anywhere whether you regret the fact that you once condemned violence against women today. I haven't figured that out. But you don't really have to answer that, I know what you're gonna say. You're not a stupid person, you know what you have to say. Since you're not stupid, you also know that if there was a secret vote in this Chamber today, you'd have about ten gangsters on your side and about 91 members or a lot of us would vote for your mistrust. How do you feel to continue as Minister of Justice when you know that 90% of the Riigikogu does not really consider you worthy of this profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U166	Thank you. It's such a sports reporter's question what it's like. That was your assessment, that was your assumption. You know, I remember a case since I worked as director of President Lennart Meri's office. The President had his candidate for the post of Auditor General, I think he had this post. And the President asked the representatives of the political parties whether you would support the Auditor General's appointment of a new Auditor General. The representatives expressed, like, overwhelming support. But the vote was secret, and the presidential candidate didn't go through. I remember Lennart Meri commenting that if this vote was secret and they didn't keep the floor, perhaps my candidate should also be secretly voted and will only be found out who went through or who didn't. But the right thing is that such votes are public, that makes sense. At the same time, we know that some of the votes in Parliament are not public either.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U167	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister! They say every nation deserves its leaders. Do you think that the Republic of Estonia, which is about to become 100 years old, deserves a Minister of Justice who takes violence against women seriously, whose words and actions are consistent, to whom the people of Estonia can always be sure, whether it is his words or his actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U169	It is always the case for politicians and those in political office that some people support them and some are against them. In fact, consensus support cannot be enjoyed by any person in any high state office, even if it is neutral. However, it is clear that in the Republic of Estonia there must be persons who defend the rule of law, both in the presence of the Minister of Justice and in other public offices, including expressing a clear position on the issues you referred to.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U170	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U171	Thank you. You talked about the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, but you kept quiet that everything that affected violence against women was already criminalised in Estonia before the Convention was adopted and the EKRE fully supported it. The remaining provisions, which require the principles of gender-neutral education to be taken into account in kindergartens and school curricula, remained the requirement to recognise normal gender roles as violence against women, remained the requirement that a woman from anywhere, whether from Africa or Arabia or wherever she claims to be discriminated against, should receive asylum in Estonia, etc., etc. It is because of these things that the EKRE voted against the Convention. By introducing the convention at the time, or now you didn't say a word about it. Don't you think it's extremely duplicity and you're helping to dismantle a normal society and normal values?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U172	Thank you. I would respond more closely to this criticism that the approval of the Convention on violence against women actually destroys Estonian society. I think it's a question of value decisions. In short, what is the message of the Istanbul Convention? The universal, global message of the Istanbul Convention of values is that each person's dignity must be protected and physical integrity guaranteed. Its starting point is the principle that violence is by no means a private matter; it is a social matter to which society must respond. The State party to the Istanbul Convention does so in three ways. Firstly, by ensuring sanctions in this regard in its criminal system. I am pleased that we received last year the regulation of both harassment and sexual harassment punishment in this Parliament. Secondly, social protection support for victims is important. Thirdly, we have a duty, above all, to take account of the interests of children in these conflicts in the relationship. Now from these claims that the Istanbul Convention allows for some kind of mass immigration that can be used as an immigration pump, as was your wording yesterday. This is not a relevant claim. As regards asylum and the principles governing international law, the Istanbul Convention clearly refers to the people at risk. This is one basis to be considered. However, it has proved to be right that we could have introduced these substantive rules, which we have incorporated into our legal order, even without accession to the Istanbul Convention. It is, in fact, the choice of the state whether or not to do so, but it was, in my opinion, such a decision of value that we do not tolerate this activity either in the Estonian judicial area or in any country in the world. I'm sorry, I don't want to put words in your mouth, but I remember either your criticism or the criticism of your peers that boys and girls are somehow being redesigned in kindergartens on the basis of gender neutrality. Well, that's not real. This is not reality! The principles of this convention have already been implemented in the Estonian legal order, but nothing like this has happened and no one considers it to be the object of this international document either.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U173	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U174	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I must say at once that I am among those who think that you should resign yourself, just as the Minister of the Centre Party did when his use of words was misunderstood. If you stay in the ministry today, the stain will be on the entire government. You understand this very well, and this whole story will be on your conscience. However, if you are today the price of the Coalition's survival, I would like to ask you about one point of the Coalition Agreement, namely the amendment of the Citizenship Act. How far away is this question, and is there any hope that within a year the draft will pass three readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U175	Thank you for your position. I will certainly listen attentively to all the views expressed in Parliament's Chamber by people who are critical of my actions or of my identity. As regards the specific provisions contained in the coalition agreement, the coalition agreement will certainly be implemented and enforced in the way that the partners have agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U176	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Writers and lawyers, and especially lawyers still in ministerial office, are the people who are best aware of the weight and strength of words. That is why you certainly know the difference between two words:'must' and 'wan'. That's why I'm asking why you said from this remote today that I have to apologize as if someone was forcing you. You didn't say I wanted to apologize from the heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U178	Urve, I'm trapped in my words again! I have to apologize, I want to apologize... I've said I'm sorry. When I said I had to apologize, I didn't mean what you mildly challenged me about construction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U179	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Yeah, one thing is what a person thinks, what the Minister of Justice thinks, another thing is what he writes. And the third thing is how everything really looks and what message society carries. I absolutely agree with Urve Tiidu. You emphasized the word "must," and I had the same question as he did. I mean, who's forcing you? At the same time, your interview with Postman seemed like you might even be willing to resign, but your party would like you to continue. Why does your party want you not to keep your face?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U181	Thank you. No politician, whether it is executive power or membership of a representative body, has an endless term of office. All these mandates are logically limited. It is clear, however, that the specific positions associated with the government fill political parties by making their choices, and that was my party's position. I'm sure they've also commented on that. But once again, about keeping and wanting. Man is still the master of his thoughts and his views, so there's no holding here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U182	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U183	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! Within a little more than a week after you released your piece of writing, and I expressed the opinion that it was all inappropriate for the Minister of Justice and that you should resign, I have received very different appeals. They have mostly contained words that cannot stand the blackprint. Among other things, I have received threats and some pretty harsh suggestions. And all because these people think they have to protect you. How does it feel to be an icon of those representatives of verbal violence?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U184	The icon of verbal violence here I stand. I do not agree to be an icon of verbal violence. There is freedom of expression in Estonia, but there is certainly a view in Estonia that people must communicate in a cultural way. When someone says ugly, it's a general human conclusion that he's regretting it. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U185	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I, too, am actually surprised that it took you a whole week to apologize as a person with a very rapid reaction. However, reading literally this text... I read it out: "I was wrong to use a humiliating tone when speaking about the subject of mercy against a number of bona fide people whose purpose in fighting violence was genuine. " You speak merely of a tone when the content of this statement you made was quite different. It's not a question of tone, Urmas. The question is a very clear message, about what you actually said with your statement. And now you're just saying that the tone was wrong. Do I misunderstand you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U187	Yes, the tone of my statement was wrong, and I regretted it. As regards the question of whether it was possible to read from this wording that prevention of violence was not important in my opinion, I have said this repeatedly that this statement was poorly formulated. We see that many good - faith people have felt that way. And for a few hours, I'll point out: a few hours! After this statement, I also expressed my unequivocal regret and stressed that every crime must be punished. I realized that the controversy that broke out has started to roll because my emphasis has been misunderstood. In its moral choices, society also draws a line between what matters we are willing to show mercy on, what matters we are not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U188	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U189	Thank you, manager. Minister! It seems cynical and regrettable that, as you have just pointed out, you had to make a very bad but obviously calculated statement on violence against women. You claim that the real purpose of this writing was to forgive the call. Who else would you extend this social forgiveness to? Who else, in your opinion, deserves to be forgiven for the words they have spoken or the actions they have done of those whose names in your case have been vigorously raised to the table for comparison and heavily exploited in discussions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U190	We're one society. One media space will shape this society. People's differing opinions create a dominant social attitude and, if there is a question where the moral limit of society runs to forgive or not, no one can take on the role of a monopoly in deciding on it. I have to admit, I don't know what particular individuals you had in mind. But this subject is certainly worth discussing in society. At the same time, I admit that if we have this debate in this heated atmosphere, we are afraid that there will be a great danger of going rogue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U191	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U192	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! By apologizing, you literally waited until the last moment when it was clear that a motion of mistrust would come against you. The shame was already born by that moment. The damage was done and the damage is one that persists in the most fragile and fragile parts of society for a very long time. If the Minister of Justice, a member of the government of the country, starts his written statement with a sentence in which he states that his earlier condemnation of violence was a false and regrettable thing, then we can assume how much such pathetic fist heroes were inspired by this Minister's statement. Last time there was a situation in Parliament where no member of the coalition voted against distrust and no member of the coalition by the Minister, this ended with a failure of distrust. But after that, the minister resigned, and resigned because he found that there was no trust. Are you ready to do the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U193	I have expressed my position on this issue. But I listened carefully to your judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U194	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U195	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! For me, your mistrust is still a broader issue, because in your area there is a huge opportunity to influence political culture. However, you have not set an example in this area at all. It also turns out that you have not fulfilled your role in the Prime Minister's letter of reply to one of our group members. The subject was that in the 2016 coalition agreement, you were given the task of increasing transparency and monitoring of political party funding, but you have not yet come to the government office with these proposals. Why has this happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U196	That's serious! In fact, this was also the subject of the 2015 Coalition Agreement. And one package of proposals on how to ensure this transparency, I have transferred Parliament to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There were also some proposals for this in the political system analysis format. I'm sure the Ministry will take care of that. And if we have concrete proposals, we will put them forward. I would like to stress that, as on many other issues relating to the functioning of the political system, whether it be electoral circles or outdoor political advertising, the starting point should also be the attempt to find a common ground between the political forces in Parliament's environment. Efforts must be made to agree which changes to the system should be made. We must realise that when the representatives of the political system deal with their own issues, it is absolutely important to avoid a situation where a change in a rule could lead to a tactical advantage for one or another political power. This fact, I think, must be borne in mind in the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U197	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U198	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! In dealing with this issue, I think we need to go back to the roots of where this whole thing started. After all, it began last year on the evening of 24 February, when the President devoted his speech to domestic violence, violence against women to a large extent. But as it has turned out, in the spring of the same year he already made an agreement with NO99 and Tiit Ojasoo that they were responsible for the artistic part at the 100th birthday of the Republic and at the President's reception. Perhaps a person who has beaten a woman lying on the ground with legs will receive such a reward. It is not a question of forgiveness. It's about reward, highlighting. Do you think that's right? Say it in this hall that we reward a man who has beaten a woman lying on the ground with her legs and treat her with great reverence!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U199	I'm sure we'll all take no for the human reward for the violence and the humiliation of our fellow man in this Chamber. The topic of how the Head of State, or his office, selects the organisers of this production has been asked me several times in the media, and I have said that it is not my place to judge it. But I have called for this choice not to be given such a rewarding meaning that the result may be backwards. It's like this person's somehow been pushed onto a pedestal. But the topic of who's making this production, who picked out this director, it seems to me that society is still dealing with a more important issue at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U200	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You have tried to look like a great statesman and have allowed a loud voice to demand compensation for various damages from Russia. But right now, it seems like you're looking at how you can pay them off. But what I've been amazed at is that one thing you guys haven't been able to finish. You have chosen the weakest, the weakest, or women, in addition, your statement actually damaged the reputation of our entire country in the wider sense. What makes you think that in a situation like this, the Ministry of Justice, the Government of the Republic, the state of Estonia cannot cope without you? Why are you prepared to put the entire government in crisis with selfish behaviour and not take this state-manly step by taking it back yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U202	Thank you for this serious question and for this assessment. I'm sure I'll take note of that. These choices and views I have commented on. Now the question of compensation for occupation damage. Yeah, that analysis team works at the Ministry. In what way a country occupied by international law could make this claim, it is the question of a political decision of the state, but if we did not deal with this analysis and assessment, it would also mean to me that we do not consider this damage to be important or denying it. In accordance with all the principles of international law, in accordance with the model articles of the Convention on the Law of Treaties, declaring by national representatives that this requirement is actually not being applied also means abandoning the requirement. If the country chooses this path, then it is the choice of the country, but my own opinion is that it is an important matter for our memory. If we are dealing with a crime today, we have the principle of legality. The crime must not be forgotten; no one must say that let us not investigate it, because it is not promising. And when we talk about such mass crimes against humanity and the damage caused by them, it seems strange to me that it is inconceivable to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U203	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Undoubtedly, your use of the word in your statement was inappropriate, and the public response was the yardstick. In view of the scale of the reaction, your written statement was more than a failed use of words or a metaphor, as you wanted to make an impression. The Free Party joined a motion of distrust for several reasons. We called it the so-called life-work bonus, and by that we certainly do not mean praise. On the contrary! Because you have changed Estonia's political culture and, unfortunately, not for the better. Good Minister, if you decided not to resign, there must have been a reason. Do you want to make amends, make something better? My question is: what will be better if you do not resign today and the motion of mistrust does not pass? What are you going to do to compensate for the damage done?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U205	Thank you for this very sincere question. I will briefly mark the problems we have in mind when we are talking about preventing violence. There are a number of initiatives that the Ministry will come up with in the near future. They concern procedural procedures as well as substantive changes to prevent particularly dangerous violent crimes. We have a strange situation both in procedural terms and in practice. We are sending under probation people for whom we assume that their reversibility is not so great that they commit new offences. They are often released before the deadline. However, to those who, as a society, do not consider it necessary or possible to release them from prison before the deadline, we do not, in most cases, apply any follow-up mechanism. Formally, this follow-up is there, but within very narrow limits. I will, of course, in the near future, if Parliament makes the decision you have referred to today, I intend to achieve that the Ministry of Justice must issue a proposal for compulsory control of the behaviour of violent criminals. This is one topic, but the topics that are currently in work are a whole series. However, I would certainly like to emphasise that, of course, it would be very arrogant if I took the view that there were indispensable people, bearing in mind myself. I understand, of course, the criticism that giving this life-work bonus means. In yesterday's press release, the representatives of the Free Party only marked a few questions. I am pretty sure that this register of sins is considerably longer than the issues relating to the Academy of Home Affairs, the system of funding parties, the impact of legislation. There must be more.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U206	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U207	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We're having this weird meta-discretion here. The Minister of Justice regrets that he regretted his repentance, and now he also regrets that we did not understand his previous remorse well enough. Let us, however, go back to the original text for a moment. You say, among other things, that these 104 letter writers themselves ridicule the real problem of close relationship violence in society. I have listened carefully to today's debate. I think your use of the word today is very gender-neutral, you have hardly ever used the term'violence against women'. In fact, this is what we are talking about, and it is not exactly coincident with close-relationship violence and all kinds of violence. Do you think violence against women is a problem at all? If so, what is the problem, and what if you continue to do, which, in my opinion, would in itself be ridiculous about the problem of close relationship violence, do you intend to continue to solve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U208	Thank you. I think that Mr Kross's question is, in fact, a matter of a very important social and also legal attitude, or one can also say, the question of translating the legal form of the social situation. This is precisely the question of whether there is a specific type of violence, which is violence against women. My answer is, of course, unambiguously yes. This particular type of violence exists. The right thing is that the attitude of the Estonian state has had a twofold attitude. While Rein Lang, who received the mandate of a good questioner's party, was the Minister of Justice for a long time, six years, his approach was that there was no specific violence against women in society. Actually, there is. Violence may develop in the event of aggression between people against another person, regardless of gender, condition or status. I am pretty sure that these old attitudes are hardly so legitimate now, since society has undoubtedly moved forward in its understanding. So, of course, there is violence against women as a separate social phenomenon. And if we're going from this position, then maybe part of it now maybe I'm putting words in someone's mouth, I don't want to be reckless here, there's some kind of criticism against the Istanbul Convention. In fact, the starting point for the Istanbul Convention is that there is a separate type of social violence and that is violence against women. And the key to curbing this violence lies in the principles set out as a catalogue in the Istanbul Convention, which, in addition to the formal possibilities of a state power machine, must also provide for a comprehensive social support complex in order to ensure that the victim is not alone, but also in order to avoid reversibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U209	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U210	You're the last of the four men who came to power with a slogan, "Choose once!"which meant a strict regime. And your idea was to expand criminal repression. You formally fought corruption. Now we see how this fight against corruption was done. So you didn't mean anything serious by that. But you did use a very scary, almost kenmart-intermediate expression today: you said that the prosecutor's office was a quasi-justice officer, and somehow you avoided an adequate term. What you're promoting is a special NKVD meeting. In this regard, I have the question: why are you opposed to taking the work of the prosecutor's office to any limits in a situation where the prosecutor's office is the only authority that no one controls? The representatives of five parties have requested regularisation of the work of the prosecutor's office. IRL under your command is the only one I stress, the only one! Against it, using kenmart-intermediate comparisons.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U211	Well, that's what I need a job for. That's what I said as a joke. But in fact, when we are talking about a specific draft, I must admit that if this is done in as mechanical a form as the initiators of the draft have, regrettably, offered it, that means the end of the investigation of hide-and-seek crime in the Republic of Estonia. The idea that in nine months the whole chain of procedures can be carried out is, to put it mildly, not realistic. Under such a system, only secondary offences of the simplest nature can be dealt with. Now, I do not want to say at all that this objective or call is wrong. The speed of criminal proceedings must increase and this is a completely legitimate objective. Undoubtedly, the lives of real people, their fates, are behind the various cases of criminal investigations. When we think about the victim or the victim, the victim wants to move forward with his life if we follow the principles of restorative justice. One of the prerequisites for moving forward in life is certainly a fair solution by society. But this is undoubtedly the case for the accused, the suspected people, who also want a fair settlement in order to move on with their lives. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice intends to come up with amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure in the near future, which should help to speed up and improve the efficiency of all proceedings. However, I must say that, indeed, if it were to be done in this form, sketchically, as the text in this bill states, I would be concerned. Now the question is whether the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Estonia is NKVD. As Minister of Justice of the Republic of Estonia, whose task it is to stand up for the rule of law, I say that the state institutions of the Republic of Estonia are not comparable to the penal mechanisms of the totalitarian state that occupied us. Everything! That is an unambiguous position. As far as the image I used is concerned that the prosecutor's office is a quasi-justice authority according to the structure of a European state charge, it does not come from me, it comes from Priit Pikamägi, the head of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U212	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U213	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, thank you for our meeting in the group yesterday. It was very friendly. We were able to exchange information. But in the meantime, time has moved on very quickly, and my question comes about political culture. Do you now fully understand that this government is already a severely wounded animal destined to die? In fact, it is within your power to give a blow of mercy and resign. Will you agree with me and be willing to strike this blow?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U214	Powerful shapes! Powerful images of wounded animals! No, I'm not ready to do this. I'm not prepared to strike any living, functioning organism that would end his life. I think we have a government capable of making decisions. If the government loses this power, then it really is a problem whether the country needs this type of government in terms of social development. On the contrary, we have all experienced that public controversy, including criticism, has been the result of a very powerful government agenda, a very extensive programme in various areas of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U215	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U216	Mr. Reinsalu! I have the feeling that your pretty long political career has been on the downward trend for a long time now and probably close to the end. I think your highlight was 15 years ago when you were chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Then you carried out a series of reforms, the consequences of which we still have on the table, so that Estonian society and the legislator must deal with them. I believe that already then you, as a politician, showed a fundamental gap in the way you work: the inability to foresee the negative consequences of your actions. But that's more of a question right now. When it was decided to go from 20 million kroons to 60 million kroons, was that your idea? If yours wasn't, then who of your colleagues came up with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U217	Thank you. It was the decision of the coalition at the time. I must admit that, if I certainly supported this idea as an agreement at the time, I do not know whether it was in the coalition agreement or whether it was presented in the budget procedure. In the coalition at the time 2003 there was the Estonian Folk League, the Reform Party, Jürgen Ligi, maybe he remembers exactly how it turned out, and indeed Res Publica. But how exactly then everything was... I would like to draw attention to a specific problem. I also brought this out in the analysis of the democratic system. Indeed, one of the central issues in the funding of political parties, which has also been criticised by the Free Party, is the rate of the amount that is allocated to political parties and the way in which it is distributed. The way money is distributed is described in the party law. In fact, however, this amount, which is undoubtedly of great importance in material terms, is set out in the State Budget Act for a given year. I have pointed out that it is certainly not formally unconstitutional, but it is consistent with the logic of the Constitution that the rate should still be stated in the text of the law. I believe that this could also be covered by the principle that one of Parliament's compositions in its own term of office would not affect this. This would certainly take down the problems you referred to in the historical context.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U218	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Jaan Tõnisson has said that statesmanship begins with a person's heart and is reflected in his actions, which are borne by man's inner dignity. What is statesmanship to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U220	I think that Jaan Tõnisson's words are certainly difficult to overcome, including his maturity and life's work, which he did when he created the Estonian state. In this sense, I also welcome the work of studying Jaan Tõnisson's heritage, which the good questioner has done, but also the campaign of the Free Party, which has been organised to introduce Jaan Tõnisson's heritage in this year, the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U221	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U222	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In fact, I was actually planning to ask about the content of the conversation between you and Jüri Ratas on part of the human interest and in the interests of Estonian history: did you have to talk about the political responsibility in order to reduce the tensions within the government union? But then Olga Ivanova's question came to my attention and the answer to it, and it seemed to me that you made some kind of promise to make some changes in Estonian citizenship policy. In the area of citizenship policy, governments have so far maintained a rather strict line, and I therefore ask: did it seem right to me that you gave Olga Ivanova a promise to change citizenship policy? And if you made that promise today and in this Chamber, I believe that Members and the general public have a right to know exactly what this promise means.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U223	Thank you. I have a chance to dispel these fears. Now I understand that, in terms of social interest, my words have a special meaning. But no, my sentence wasn't included in that idea. There are no changes to the principles of citizenship policy planned. The right thing is that changes in citizenship policy have indeed been made. How am I supposed to say...? It is not critical, it is not a reproach, but the truth is that I did not vote for it. In fact, the government led by Taavi Kõivas introduced important fundamental changes towards the easing of our citizenship policy, but I did not give a vote of support to that in my time. It was your political choices that you made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U224	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U225	Thank you. Good minister! 47 signatures on paper, and I think that in some heads, some additional signatures are a very serious order of magnitude in Parliament, which shows that the subject is very important. It is very important to consider how to express yourself when interpreting fundamental values. If you imagine it would be possible to rewind two weeks ago, what content would your text have in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U226	Thank you. This is actually a very correct question, but I am not going to improvise and report this text 2.0 here. I saw that Raivo Vare had set up a quote from Margaret Thatcher on Facebook yesterday, which was about to say that if the arguments become such that they disparage people and not talk about what is the basic core of a particular position, then the debate would be lost. And I can see it on my case that this could happen. Of course, my message should have been focused only on the basic road that I wanted to express. The question is, what is the limit of forgiveness in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U227	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U228	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I am pleased that you have admitted today that you were wrong in choosing the tone of your initial statement and writing down a phrase that can be interpreted as justifying violence. But you don't just have to convince me. You must convince the Estonian public, Estonian women, Estonian workers who suffer violence from their superiors. Today, one of my associates, who also signed this 104 people's appeal, wrote: "What do the feminists want? That the subject of violence so painful for women would be taken seriously. So that Estonia would have a minister who would take this issue seriously. So that Estonia would have a minister who could be respected. " Do you realize how low this bar is? Please convince the author of these words and all of us that in the coming year and a few months you will be a normal minister who will take the subject of violence seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U229	Thank you for that question. This is a matter of very principled origin. I understand perfectly that a very large number of people have a legitimate question and also a concern as to whether my statement expressed the view that I consider violence against women, close violence to be irrelevant, and whether this attitude is somehow passed on to, say, the functioning of the national legal system. No! I say unequivocally and clearly: firstly, what is the starting point, is violence against women as a phenomenon in society? It seems to me that it is not over or far from the times when the debate was held on this issue as well. I answer: The starting point for the Ministry of Justice is that violence against women exists in reality. That's point one. Point two: Does this require substantive and procedural changes in the legal system in order to protect women? My answer is yes. We are last year, and I welcome this criminal statistics, in fact, two concrete steps. One touches the harassing pursuit. This may not be related to violence against women, but statistics show that most cases have actually been caused either by a broken relationship or by other stresses cast on a woman as a victim. The second is the harassment paragraph, which deals with sexual harassment, the victims of which are, of course, women as well. My message is one and clear: as far as the Estonian legal system is concerned, my attitude is not that enough has already been done to prevent violence against women. On the contrary, we need change. I also tried to bring it up briefly in my morning statement. And I want to express this idea in a human way, not hollowly or rhetorically, that in this work I want to be on the same side of the front line with these stakeholders, those organisations that have clearly and unambiguously expressed their concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U230	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U231	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You are a very experienced person in politics whose speech is very closely monitored. As you know very well, good communication is behind a successful politician. Now the Minister of Justice has chosen, in his communication strategy, either for emotion or for the sake of a poor counselor, a form of expressive expression that has guaranteed attention. Unfortunately, time has shown that this tactic failed you, but you did not correct your statement quickly and accurately enough. Your tactical choice failed. It created a huge discussion in society, people felt humiliated, abandoned, they were hurt. In the case of failed political tactics that have shaken so many, is there any way to justify your or all ministers' resignation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U232	Thank you. In my opinion, this social debate or debate is not caused by any tactics. As some people in this Chamber have rightly pointed out in their legitimate criticism, it is a question of values. What are the values on the basis of which we organise our lives, our dignity, our integrity? It is, of course, my duty to explain this to the representatives of the people and to the other institutions of society in a broader sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U233	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U234	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Reinsalu! To tell you the truth, I'm surprised. After humiliating and insulting almost all Estonian women, you also said twice to the Riigikogu today: I must apologise for my use of words. I repeat: you emphasised the word'must' twice. This means that you are forced to apologize under external pressure and it was not sincere and certainly did not come from the heart either. I don't think any of the Estonian women believe you. How would you comment on your statements about your apologies today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U235	I said it in the form of an oral text, not in the form of a written paper. If my statement is made more sincere by the fact that I take the word "must" off my mind, I don't know if it can be removed from the verbatim, then I will. There are still moments in politics when a politician has to understand that he is lost, and then he has to admit that. And this is now the moment when I'm doing it with absolute certainty. Otherwise, there would be very big questions in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U236	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U237	Thank you! I would like to start by pointing out that your reaction to a colleague's metaphor, when he called the wounded animal, caused you to brow, but the 'chicken' that was said a week ago belongs to the same area, so that it should not make you brow. But my subject is actually crime and punishment. You have confessed that you were wrong. What's the punishment? How do we figure that out? So far, it has been customary for the Minister to resign. He admits he was wrong, he resigns, the whole community realizes he was wrong. That's what he's gonna admit. Just asking for an apology isn't enough. Otherwise, we should start changing the other rules. A person may be mistaken and speedier, he understands it and apologizes, but usually he gets a fine because it's meant to be. My question: is this a new stage now? How in the future should the public understand that the Minister understood that he was wrong and that this would be followed by punishment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U238	I believe this case has been a serious lesson to me. I have had a lot of explaining to do, and I'm sure there's still a lot of explaining to do in different forms. Surely, this great amount of clarification is necessary. I must try to clarify the matter so as not to question my understanding of the important values to which the critics have referred. But the truth is, there is a reform plan prepared at the Ministry of Justice for misdemeanours. The plan for this reform also provides for the principle of conditional punishment for traffic offences. That's what it means. Take, for example, one person who travels to Tallinn on the Tartu highway and exceeds speed. In itself, the police may sentence him to parole for this, and if he doesn't commit another misdemeanor within a year, it will go away. If he commits a new misdemeanour during the year, of course, he is expected to be fined for both primary and secondary errors. We also have a separate format for the storage procedure. But when it comes to committing offences and the responsibility of a politician, the assessments of a politician's actions, they are, of course, not measurable on the basis of narrow offences or criminal law categories at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U239	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U240	Thank you. Good minister! Over the last week, we have seen how values have been made into politics, and from this all in turn, goods. I ask you a question that is motivated by your response to Olga Ivanova. As you know, you met here in the Riigikogu and discussed the further development of citizenship policy. Even if you didn't meet, you raised your eyebrow at it, in what form do you think the debate on citizenship policy is going on here in the Riigikogu? Are there any concessions there? When they come in which direction and to what extent do they come in your proposal? Or did you just let Olga Ivanova do it, but you don't?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U241	A fancy question about drinking cognac and the mornings! I mean, I am very clear: of course, the principles of citizenship policy are not called into question. It is true that the coalition that took office in 2014, which you also had the honour to belong to, made certain fundamental changes. It was the political choice of this coalition. That's the starting point. If the question was whether I had met Olga Ivanova, I guess it was the nearest days of this case, then my answer is no. Not that it's anything incriminating or bad. The right thing is that I have met Olga Ivanova, I think, in the coming year, and we discussed the issue of the "keys in hand" problem, i.e. the question of housing debtors.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U242	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U243	Thank you! As a minister, you have put your coalition partners Social Democrats in a very difficult position. They have told you, both by flashing the lights and by a few hints, over the last week, that perhaps it would be wise to take the decisive step yourself. Such a conflict will certainly not have a good effect on the government's future cooperation. What are you going to do to fix it? Do you actually see that you have the capital to continue and cooperate further? And I'm still coming to Kalle Palling's question. What did you promise Ivanova? You referred to some old legislative amendment, but we are talking specifically about promises made in the coming days to change citizenship policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U244	No, I have not made any promises to anyone to make any changes in the area you have indicated. But your question also concerned the partners of the government coalition. I must, of course, regret the fact that this case has had such a Collateal Damage. In fact, a lot of bona fide people have had to comment or explain something that had nothing to do with them. I'm really sorry about that. Honestly! As regards the question of this change from 2014, this is the most fundamental change in terms of citizenship. This is reality and there is no point in really shy of being self-made, well done!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U245	Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U246	Thank you. Good minister! If it happens that the voices do not come together to distrust and you continue in office, what do you think it says about our political culture? In my opinion, our ambition has always been to anchor ourselves from an Eastern European political culture in which we are often placed. It's like becoming a Western country! The aim is to be a Nordic, Western and open, responsible country, etc. If such a thing had happened if those words had been said in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Germany, the Netherlands, Great Britain or anywhere, would you have imagined that the Minister of Justice could continue in his office?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U247	Political culture is the sum of different interactions, to say the least. But this is the present environment of our political culture, where we are located. However, I would like to say that hopefully our political culture has not been damaged by the fact that I understood what was wrong in my actions and regretted it. A lot has been asked, whether it's sincere or not. It's gonna be a questioner's problem to assess. However, I would like to stress once again that the starting point for developing political culture must be that people who exercise themselves in politics report adequately to themselves on the consequences of their words and are able to correct themselves if the point has been misinterpreted because of a certain wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U248	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U249	Thank you. A few days ago, it was quite clear that Olga Ivanova was also signing a motion of distrust. Something has happened in these two days and, speaking in the costaars, we have realised that the IRL has made a promise to Olga Ivanova or to the Centre Party to change something specifically in a law on citizenship. Now, just tell me what this promise is and why Olga Ivanova changed her position!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U250	They are such cozy blurry hints that the costaars were told that it had become clear, etc. And now you're asking what it was specifically. But who told you what in the costaars? What did they say? Asking questions must be effective and precise, formulating the problem on a factual basis, it is also possible to give a relevant answer. My answer is unambiguously: I have not negotiated any issues of citizenship policy. In my case, there is no question, and at least I am not aware that someone else from the IRL has negotiated these negotiations in this way. But I hope that you will later be able to present the concrete facts to the public and tell us what has really happened in the cost halls there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U251	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U252	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I remember that when the party Res Publica came into existence, you were very proud that you, as the first Estonian party, adopted the code of ethics of the party. I remember that, after the 2002 local elections, you dare to say with great force that you insisted that all coalitions in all of Estonia's local governments, to which Res Publica belonged, would adopt an analogous code of ethics. I think you were one of the authors and initiators of this code. If, in this context, you now appreciate the situation that has developed and your decision not to resign, does this correspond to the precise wording of the then Code of Conduct I do not remember the spirit and the idea? Are you at peace with yourself by making that decision now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U253	Thank you. Well, codes of ethics apply to different professions, also in a political environment. We can see that these "professional" requirements have been implemented in a quite diverse way in the European environment. In itself, I also find the work carried out by the working group chaired by Kaja Kallas to create Parliament's code of ethics to be sympathetic. He was a compromise, wasn't he, with just as powerful or possibly sanctioning procedures as it was? In certain countries, monitoring of compliance with ethical rules has been given to the Speaker of Parliament or the Council of Elders, who may even impose sanctions for some activity in Parliament. Well, not just punishing a misdemeanor, but using internal leverage. Now, that question. In a broader sense, actually, a good questioner, your question is whether I believe my actions are ethical, isn't it? You called it a code, or what the wording was. But that's it. I'm saying that I think it's certainly ethical to understand when something's gone wrong. If a completely wrong position has been taken out of a certain wording, it must be made clear. I think this is actually the starting point for opening up ethical categories.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U254	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will come back to the question that my colleague Ivanova has put forward and which has subsequently been asked by a number of colleagues, but you have sidelined the answer. You have said that, in the verbatim report, I looked up to Mr Ivanova clearly that, as far as the provisions of the coalition agreement are concerned, the amendment of the Citizenship Act was at issue, the coalition agreement will certainly be honoured and executed in the way that the partners have agreed. You later said, in reply, that no promise has been made to your colleague Ivanova. What, then, do you tell us: will a coalition treaty be implemented or will it not be fulfilled on the question of the Citizenship Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U256	Good, Aivar! You're using full-time, I mean, changing grammatical times! I made it clear: I said that this coalition has a coalition agreement and will be implemented as agreed by the partners. In the present and not in the full past, as you said, "agreed." That's the kind of detail you want, if that's what you want. In fact, I understand what the direction of this question is in the bottom line: you want to know if there are any agreements on this subject. I can assure you there has been no agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U257	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The minister may leave the chair. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U258	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! In my opinion, the current case of mistrust reveals very vividly how broken the government is first in Estonia, the whole policy and ultimately our society and people. IRL has tried to play martyr during this scandal: one of Estonia's most skilled and virtuosoic, I dare say, not a very principled political technologist has suddenly become a conservative victim overnight. In fact, the calculated activity, whose main objective, let us not forget, has unfolded before our eyes, is to highlight the focus of President Kaljulaid's scandalous decision to use NO theatre and Ojasood at the 100th anniversary reception ceremony of the Republic of Estonia. So, I repeat my point of view: this was a calculated provocation to save the President from embarrassment, no matter how much he denies it. This calculation has been very simple. The calculation is that the Centre Party dares not do anything because they are in government for a long time and do not want to give anyone any reason to throw them out of there, even by changing the size of the pupil. The Soots do not want to rock this government because they also do not want to sit in opposition, and IRL itself cannot call Reinsalu back or put pressure on Reinsalu to resign, because it is one of the parties' central authorities. Of course, particularly shameful in this whole scheme is the behaviour of the soccer. For years they have spoken out loud about violence against women, gender equality, the pay gap and everything else. But when it comes to action, they're nowhere to be found. If it is necessary to choose whether to continue to sit in the government or to stand up for their principles, the Socats choose to sneak out of the room in a principled, spineless and shameful manner. To justify their behaviour, they try to spin by making some absurd talk, as if voting against a convention was equivalent to beating women with their feet. I'm sorry, it's just so stupid that it can't be understood how grown-ups can get that kind of talk out of their mouths! In the same way, it is embarrassing to hear the talk about how parties that defend traditional gender roles and family values are equal to those who incite violence against women. Once again, if you really have to assess violence against women in a particular political situation, you will be nowhere and your words will cost nothing. Exactly the same thing I can say about middle partyers who, in previous years, have looked like they're standing up for the weaker. Turns out it's still not standing. Our party chairman, Mart Helme, made it clear: this government is a wounded animal. I call for an emergency attack on this wounded animal and for the political crisis in Estonia to be brought to an end! Either way, we no longer have a functioning government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U259	Kalle Laane on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U260	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U261	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U262	More than 3,000 cases of domestic violence were registered in Estonia in 2017. Of all the violent crimes, it accounted for 39%, which was one in ten crimes in Estonia. Thus, on average, 31 people get beat up every day in Estonia or otherwise fall victim to violence. Statistics show that 83% of cases are affected by women. Thinking figures. One in ten crimes is a case of domestic violence, and eight in ten is a woman who suffers. And these numbers are talking about cases that are recorded. Domestic violence tends to stay behind closed doors, often not on its own. During the Soviet occupation, beating was a beating. Shame was his business. The first women's shelter was opened in Tartu in 2002 and in 2004 a pilot project against domestic violence was launched in the Western Prefecture. I know because I was a cop there. The Soviet culture of shame broke in Estonia in 2011-2013 when the Ministry of Justice led the prosecutor's office, police and women's organisations to cooperate. At the time, the Minister of Justice, now sitting in this hall, Kristen Michal, reached a turning point in his attitude. The DA's office didn't stop cases of domestic violence on an easy hand. The police trained workers to react to them, and women's organisations contributed in the form of shelters and public debate. There was also a connection to the functioning of the social sphere, without which the actual change would not arrive after the fact was established. It took years to change the attitudes. But the ice began to break in the public. Paxananu wasn't stigmatized, he was responsible for the beating. Those who suffered dared to turn to the country. There was confidence. Even so much that the police were worried if they had the resources to do so. This was a fundamental change: the state defended the weaker side. This was to be taken into account by the person in need of protection, and this was to be taken into account by the hand-lifter. Violence was no longer a private matter. The following two Ministers of Justice, Hanno Pevkur and Andres Anvelt, continued in the same direction. The word of the Minister of Justice created trust between the state and the victim. Less than a year ago, our country's president spoke about this in an anniversary speech. On February 24, 2017, Kersti Kaljulaid in Estonia said: "Good listeners! We also need to talk about Estonia's state of mind. We must work together to ensure that there is less evil in Estonia. It's a public holiday. The police know that during the holidays, people get the most beaten up. They'll be where they should be safest: at home. That's it for Christmas, on Midsummer Day. This is also the case today, on the anniversary of the Republic. Violent patterns repeat from generation to generation. They cannot be broken except with public attention, which leads to a significant shift in attitudes. It is not enough to delegate our problem to the police and social workers. When was the last time you heard a political discussion, such as before the elections, how could honourable candidates help eradicate violence? Ask for such a discussion. Do not choose people who can generate only a few stupid jokes about domestic violence. Don't laugh and don't choose. //---/ A culture of bypass does not create such an order; promoting a culture of sight is the work of all of us. Let's start by looking inside ourselves." On that day, the police received 46 reports of domestic violence on the occasion of the holidays. Less than a year has passed since the speech, in the meantime more than 3,000 people have been beaten. Home. On 16 January 2018, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Republic of Estonia, wrote in his statement: "... then I condemned the violence against women, but now, in the light of today's letter, I regret this statement. " The Minister of Justice of the Republic of Estonia, who is responsible for reducing violence in the country, openly reports that one letter has made him regret being opposed to violence against women. The Minister wrote these thoughts of his own free will. He is expected to have the written word alongside the implementation of the development plan to reduce violence. This message was not overheared or secretly recorded, it was written and sent for public disclosure. Urmas Reinsalu explained what he said with his own feelings when resentment arose and said: "I apologize for the wording of my statement when it hurt someone. " He apologized for the wording, not the content, and used the word "if." Urmas Reinsalu, however, has and can be accused of much more. Each of the authorities and the political groups of distrust has their own views. Under the direction of the Minister of Justice, the incumbent government has created a peculiar idea that Estonia occupied itself by giving the church the necessary money under the cover of occupation damage. This was intrinsically a delict act of Estonian history and perhaps beyond the limits of the violation of the law. As mentioned today in the press, he has a comic idea that officials carrying out special political investigations are to appoint him. The perception of the responsibility of a gambler, not a member of the government's oath, is spoken of both the regrettability of being against violence against women in the hope of finding voters and the earlier cases known in the public as "Beware, Urmas Reinsalu has a plan!'. Today and here we focus mainly on one thing: the fight against violence and the Minister of Justice, who regrets it. There is no question of worldview or political preference for violence and weaker protection. It is universal and fundamental. It's not unique to one gender, not to women or men. It's in common. Our motion of distrust for Urmas Reinsalu has been presented for an attitude that is fundamental in his office. The minister responsible for preventing violence shattered the trust that the state would always and uncompromisingly be under weaker protection. Borrowing from our President, it can be said that the office of Minister of Justice cannot be held by anyone who jokes about domestic violence, regrets being opposed to violence against women in a declaration of his own free will. The President's message less than a year ago was clear: oversight is not an opportunity in Estonia. As an opposition, we can and must raise this issue. Every member of the Riigikogu is free to make his or her own choices. Conscience and harsh knowledge that dozens of people who expect protection from a larger family member can be beaten at home today make this choice easy. Walking away from the hall or not voting is the same as seeing someone get their asses kicked, turning their heads and leaving. That's not what you do! This hall sets an example for its constituents, the people of Estonia and even for their children. It's not a political question, it's a question of being human. It is a pity that the Minister answered many of our questions by using political technology, and we did not actually receive any substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U263	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U264	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have an unpleasant situation today, and I believe that no one will enjoy it. The Social Democrats are of the opinion that Minister Reinsalu is wrong, but we believe that this error can be corrected primarily by him or his home party. The events that caused the motion of distrust as a whole are fresh, so the whole sequence of circumstances will probably not have to be restored. So I'm just gonna limit myself to the excerpts of what happened. First of all, the so-called 104 letters, which I and many others consider to be of sincere concern, but which I personally would certainly not have signed. When we think about the relationship between the moral face of the creator, his past and his creation, there are no final answers here. In the opinion of most of the partymates I have spoken to, there is a tendency to weigh on freedom of expression and creativity. However, these 104 people had the full right to express their opinion, and a condescending and humiliating attitude by the Minister is certainly not appropriate here. Secondly, it is obvious that Minister Reinsalu's regret that he condemned violence against women had to be a mistake. If this were meant to be true, Minister Reinsalu should have no place in Estonian politics. I agree with Archbishop Urmas Viilma, who defended Reinsalu, that neither his actions nor his speeches have in any way shown the tolerance of violence against women. Moreover, some mistrusters have accused him of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention during his ministry. Of course, the Minister had to quickly reject the remorse of violence against women stated in his statement and apologize. I believe that a sincere apology would have made a lot of sense, but the Minister's first apology was conditional: I apologise for the wording of my statement when it hurt someone. I repeat, if it hurt anyone. Good heavens, how can anyone even think that there is a chance that such words will not hurt anyone! Many of us have probably received today's letters of distrust, both supportive and sad, in recent days. One of the most painful was from one of my former talented students, a lecturer today. I quote to my student, who has obviously been hurt: "But today I have the feeling that some of the people are building from one end to another, but at the same time they are only breaking down somewhere else. How can I tell my students seriously about human rights and the Istanbul Convention if the Estonian Minister of Justice can say what he said and thought, and nothing happens, he can continue to be a minister? " I didn't read the minister's correct apology until today. But really, better late than never. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U265	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U266	I've been involved in basketball through my son for the last ten years. In hot games, it is often the case that after the misses, a player shows himself that I'm not going, and asks the coach to take him out for a while. Or, as happens more often, the coach invites this lost basketball player to rest on the bench. If we think metaphorically, then actually both solutions exist today. We need a responsible player who has missed several balls and a responsible coach who understands it. I admit that today's decision is not easy for the social democrats. We acknowledge Hannes Hanso in his choice, but most of us come from the principle of the utilitarism of Jeremy Bentham, an English thinker, consciously or intuitively. This principle states that act in such a way as to maximise the benefits to as many as possible or to the other way around: the lowest possible harm to the minimum possible. If you ask if your conscience scratches because of this decision, the answer is yes, it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U267	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U268	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party, however, would like to expand the subject of Minister Reinsalu's specific statement and treat this motion of distrust as a kind of reward for life's work. For us, Minister Reinsalu symbolises the coming of such a cartel party thinking into Estonian politics. Minister Reinsalu was one of the architects whose work resulted in the state tripled the support of the parties, etc. This list is long. If you come to his current activities as Minister of Justice, you could say that this is, in a sense, a sort of judicial act. Or, if you go any further, you could say it's a justice dorm. And there are a lot of examples. We often hear that the Minister has formed a new commission or study group or all kinds of funny bodies that come together once and whose activities do not go anywhere. There's no result, everything's more than that, that's all! One PR trick. I would like to conclude by quoting one very, very good article: 'Watch out, Urmas Reinsalu has a plan!'. This is Erik Moora's article about the Estonian Express, I will read you some very specific passages about it. "The Minister of Justice proposed to reduce the maximum number of members of the government from 15 to 11. Today, the power coalition has watered down this scheme. The upper limit was completely lost. " So the plan was carried out in the opposite direction. "The Minister of Justice proposed that mandatory shocking be applied to drunk drivers. The Supreme Court and the courts said: this plan is contrary to our legal order, taking discretion from the judges. The Minister of Justice proposed that citizens be given the opportunity to address their rights directly to the Supreme Court. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise said that this plan is unnecessary, incomprehensible and even threatening justice and democracy." Taken by Narva, the National Defence Academy is also a good example. He sends out a press release stating that the Ministry of Justice will do the move itself, and that's not a problem with three to five million. The result is that instead of the National Defence Academy, there will be a nice swimming pool in Narva, I don't know what money to pay, okay, training base, if you name it more generally. These are examples of the fact that the Ministry of Justice has no result at work and they have rather been PR projects. And that's one of the motives why we joined this mistrust in corpore. Finally, I too look deep into the eyes of the sexes and ask: " How does it feel to be in a value fork? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U269	Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U270	Thank you to the manager. You can see a lot of crocodile tears like that. I must admit that, unfortunately, the opposition is not united, nor does the opposition have vitality. At the same time, unfortunately, I cannot say about you like you said about the coalition, that there must be an emergency kill. Think of it as a coalition politician saying about the opposition that there should be an emergency kill! What a ripple would be on it! I wouldn't say that, but I guess you'll find other shapes. Drowning cocks or raping chickens, for example, could be said of the opposition. I'm saying you're the one who's obsessed with a conflict of value. If one party in the opposition claims that the Defence Police is political and that is why one person did not become President, then the Reform Party will watch it and say for some reason that we have the rule of law, do not worry, we have a political authorities based on competence, honesty and statesmanship. A large party is silent, allowing one party to say that it was due to political games that the Defence Police did not become president. And the Reform Party will shut up. There are no values anywhere! In the meantime, Jürgen Ligi begins by saying that yes, in the beginning all emotion was connected to the chicken herd case and the excuse wasn't sincere, but then he discovered that there were really reasons for the church. And now a person comes from the Free Party and says that the reasons are somewhere else. So the sin record that was designed today is taken from the left, the right, the top and the bottom. And this shows that the opposition does not have a single leader. You don't have planning or coordination, you're raping about, and it's not really convincing. It is extremely positive to see that Kalle Palling, Kristen Michal and Taavi Kõivas are talking here about values, sincerity and honesty. I think that this is positive, which shows that perhaps indeed political culture is making progress, making obvious developments. You can only be happy about that. But your advance won't work. Try to be more convincing and be more viable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U271	On behalf of the Group of the Helir-Valdor Seeder Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U272	Honourable Riigikogu! There's too much insincere replacement activity in this hall today. When Hannes Hanso, Mart Helme and Krista Aru gather together behind Jürgen Ligi to fight for polite and ontic speech and common truth and justice, it is not a sincere and credible concern and a distrust. Those members of the Riigikogu who think that the heads of judges should roll, the face of a woman is moll and a woman is a butcher and a body taunter who should never have children, should not be in the Riigikogu at all. Their groupmates should condemn this use of the word, perhaps there would be some credibility in publishing such a mistrust. The language used by a member of the Riigikogu and the minister should not be subject to different standards or to different ethical and moral standards. Or is it? After all, the real reasons for a motion of distrust are elsewhere. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu expressed himself unsuccessfully and imprecisely. But he has given sufficient explanations to the public. However, the content of the letter was quite different from what the distrusters have interpreted. The Minister's writing provided an opportunity for a false and malicious interpretation. The Minister did not sufficiently consider the risk that individual sentences might be ripped out of context and interpreted arbitrarily. The opposition has amplified and expanded the message in order to achieve wider social attention and confrontation, which has grown into an ideological confrontation in the media. Is that what the initiators of a mistrust wanted? I really hope not. To characterize the opposition's activities, it is appropriate to quote the written story of a member of the Riigikogu, which hopefully does not correspond to reality: "I have never lied. I've increased things, left things unspoken, I've tricked, I've sneaked, I've pretended, I've fantasized, it's right, but I've never lied. " The common truth of opposition ambassadors is equally plausible. But as Helme says, "There'll be no trouble if both sides aren't right." Good mistrusters! Beauty is in the eyes of the viewer, and everyone thinks and sees and interprets the truth at the level of their corruption. This is also the case with the Minister's statement today. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu has done well in his work as Minister and Member of the Government. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance supports the continuation of the Minister and we do not consider it appropriate to participate in this insincere distrust. Ladies and gentlemen, In Estonian politics, the resignation of the minister is seen as taking absolute responsibility. In my opinion, this is not the case in practice. History has shown that there have been ministers who have resigned, but have not apologized or regretted, and that there have been ministers who have apologized but have remained in office, have not resigned. From a political culture point of view, there is no absolute and one truth here. Honourable ambassadors! Let's not make fun of the people's representation in style: "Father, why is a clergyman elected to the Riigikogu? In order for him to pray. For the Riigikogu? No, he follows the work of the Riigikogu and then prays for the people. " Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-24_U273	There is no further negotiation option. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since a majority of the Riigikogu's membership is required to make a decision, we will do a verification of the presence. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered their presence. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the publication of censure to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of expressing censure, and there were no votes against or abstentions. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, was not distrusted by the Riigikogu. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 5.20 p.m.
