ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. The Tuesday session of the 18th working week of the VIIth plenary session has begun. Now it's time to hand over the drafts or inquiries. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is not exactly a draft or an inquiry. On behalf of the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption in the Riigikogu, I have the honour to present an overview of the Commission's activities covering the period from June 2017 to June 2018 and to draw your attention to it. I would like to thank all the Members of the Commission and I would like to thank the advisor who has put together this ten-page summary of work. I would say so much more that our focus during this year was perhaps the most problematic of local governments. I will also make a friendly tip here to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, who is the person handling the draft law, that there is a draft on the subject in the proceedings that will help to solve a number of problems better and prevent situations that are dangerous to corruption. Its processing could be completed during the current Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted an overview, which we read carefully and which we will draw conclusions from. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 79 delegates will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U4	Today's first item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of members of the Gambling Tax Board, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 646. Allow me to briefly present the procedure before going to this item. First of all, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, will make a 20-minute presentation. Questions and answers follow the presentation. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Then there will be negotiations, during which representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu will be able to speak. Following the negotiations, the amendments will be examined, followed by a final vote. I would like to ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 7 (4) of the Gambling Tax Act, the Council's Riigikogu forms a Gambling Tax. It must consist of six members of the Riigikogu and one representative from the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs. On 9 May, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar sent a letter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs stating that Paavo Nõgene, who was a representative of the Ministry of Culture on this Council, had resigned from the Ministry. The Minister proposed that Mr Tarvi Sits be appointed as Deputy Chancellor of Cultural Goods to the Council. We discussed this letter at the regular meeting on 28 May. We approved it and adopted the decision to initiate the same draft decision and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 June. However, the next day, on 29 May, again at the regular session, we came back to this issue and we added another line to the draft, according to which Mr Enn Meri was appointed a member of the Gambling Tax Council as a representative of the Free Party Group. I must inform you that no amendments have been received by 6 June. Secondly, according to the Commission's procedural decisions, the Commission asked for the draft decision to be sent to the Chamber today and put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U6	Aivar Sõerd, question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U7	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have to ask you a little bit more about this subject. The point is that last week's Wednesday we discussed draft 632, according to which the Gambling Tax Council would be dissolved and his duties handed over to ministries. I looked up the verbatim, you were also a waitress then, and you made very vague statements. You said that this kind of thing, the liquidation of this council and the transfer of its functions to ministries, would reduce transparency, and that is the fact that there is still a need to come back to it. What happens then? We're changing the membership of the Gambling Tax Council, but what about this council? Will it remain, or will these tasks be assigned to the ministries? The first reading of the government bill last week was completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U8	Thank you. Look, dear colleague, if you are based on your opinion now, it must be said that all your views are vague. The fact that I doubt that draft 632 needs to be adopted without further discussion does not mean that my position is vague. I want to discuss this issue with the ministers and the Riigikogu. But as far as your factual question is concerned, how can I put it now is the expression that war is war, but lunch is on time. Whether we are discussing the fate of this Council or not discussing, according to the law, there must be nine people there, now there are seven. We need to put in place two people who will be there at least until the end of the year. There's no doubt that these things just don't cross each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U9	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U10	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! There's really a bit of a conflict here. Is 632 left in the drawer after the first reading when we use our jargon?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U11	How can I predict anything to you? Even the big extrasens are wrong sometimes, but I'm not that person at all. I do not know how this hall will behave, how ministers will behave and what will be done tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Everyone, of course, is waiting for me to say who wins the World Championship football, right, and how does this situation end up with a totalizer that's really there, but I don't have that ability, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U12	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Let me get this straight. This council has to have an x number of members, not an x number of members. The question is, if there are any changes, is it now appropriate to change the membership.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U14	Thank you. According to the law, there are six members of the Riigikogu and representatives of three ministries, that is the law, and that is what we are trying to do today. It would be strange to expect what ends the procedure of Bill 632.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U15	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. There's no call. No amendments have been tabled to Bill 646. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote, and in a few minutes we will do so. Is the Riigikogu prepared to vote at an early pace? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jah.'???]] Thank you! I will put to the vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Announcement of Members of the Gambling Tax Board', tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 646. Please take a stand and vote. 78 Members voted in favour of the draft, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law, as a decision, in fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U16	Today's second item is the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Anti-Corruption Commission' by the Group of the Estonian Free Party' draft 638. Although the procedure is quite similar to the previous procedure, I will remind you once again of this time. First of all, the member of the Riigikogu Artur Talvik will make a 20-minute presentation. Questions and answers follow the presentation. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Then there is the presentation by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which will last up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers. After that there will be negotiations during which representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu will be able to speak. Following the negotiations, we will examine the amendments, which will be followed by a final vote. Please present the speech chair of the member of the Riigikogu Artur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U17	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu 638. It provides for the recall of Andres Herkel, a member of the Special Committee against Corruption today. Now, if you paraphrase the classics, I'll say that I'm offering myself first and foremost as a new member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U18	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U19	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office, and ladies and gentlemen. We discussed draft decision 638 on 5 June, including. Stakeholders were not involved in the debate on the draft act because they simply did not exist. Our proposal is to put this draft to the final vote today. The free party's maneuvers will come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U20	Any questions for the waitress? It is. Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U21	Thank you. You said there were no interest groups. But there was an interested party. Is that the principle of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it is the one who is interested to present himself in office, including the Anti-Corruption Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U22	Thanks! Such renamings are accepted even in the same form for the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U23	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. There's no call. No amendments to the 638 draft have been tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. We'll do it in a few minutes. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Special Anti-Corruption Commission' by the Group of the Estonian Free Party' draft 638. Please take a stand and vote. 71 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft 638 of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U24	Today's third item is the draft of the Riigikogu's decision of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, Lea Kivi, member of the Supreme Court, to be released from the judicial office. Let me also introduce this procedure. First, Jüri Adams, Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a 20-minute presentation. Questions and answers follow the presentation. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Then there will be negotiations, during which representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu will be able to speak. The negotiations will be followed by a final vote. Jüri Adams, vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U25	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have before us today a draft decision that provides for the release of a member of the Supreme Court, Lea Kivi, from the office of judge. Lea Kivi, formerly known as Kalm, has been a judge of state since the beginning. This means that in February 1993 the first composition of the Supreme Court was voted in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, the first President of the Supreme Court Rait Maruste, who is certainly remembered here, was also a member of the previous composition of the Riigikogu, and Lea Kalm or Lea Kivi has been a judge of state ever since. He has worked in the Criminal College and has spent some time in the Constitutional Review College. Before becoming a judge of state, Lea Kivi was the prosecutor of the Tartu district; after graduating from the university, she worked in other public prosecutor's offices in South Estonia. He has applied to resign as a judge of state since 1 November. He's already in retirement. In fulfilling the waitress's responsibility, I contacted her on the phone to ask a question that I think needs to be asked and what is the point of this whole procedure. In fact, I was wondering whether it was a case of Lea Kivi being forced to leave the office of judge in any way reluctantly or against his own will. He confirmed that this is not the way it is, rather, after the age of his motive for family reasons. Therefore, I have a proposal, in particular, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that today the Riigikogu will approve the decision to release Lea Kivi from the judicial office.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U26	Hatter, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U27	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Did you discuss the matter at the committee, or do you have any information of your own, that if Lea Kivi leaves the office of judge, will the competences that he has had continue to be covered? What about his so-called replacement, it exists, and how does it all develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U28	No, we did not discuss it in the Commission. It is clear that members of the Supreme Court require people with different qualifications. When Lea Kivi leaves, the criminal college will surely become weaker. The task of presenting the heels of a member of the Supreme Court is the Chairman of the Supreme Court, but the process of collecting applications and evaluating candidates is of course taking place. At the moment, it is not known, at least to me, that there will be a nomination for a suitable judge of state in the criminal college in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U29	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U30	Good manager! Good waitress! Recently, the President of the Supreme Court gave an overview here. Three-quarters of matters are administrative matters, but the Criminal Chamber and Administrative College of the Supreme Court are more or less the same size. I asked him if the composition of the criminal college should be significantly reduced. It's like he didn't answer me. How do you feel when three-quarters of matters are administrative and the proportion of criminal cases has fallen sharply, should the size of the college be reduced and a new criminal judge instead of Lea Kivi be needed there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U31	I have not thought about this issue in this way, and I cannot tell you how many of these members of the college are left at the moment. It is true that crime in Estonia has generally decreased and the number of criminal cases has also decreased. When relatively few of them reach the Supreme Court, this means that the courts of first and second instance do their work well. Perhaps all kinds of faster procedures will also contribute here. I do not think that the number of members of the Supreme Court should be shaped in the direction of either an increase or a decrease in the workload. Lea Kivi was and still is a lecturer at the University of Tartu, alongside the office of state judge. If a period of relatively reduced workload arises, judges can be applied on the basis of their skills in a variety of other activities, where they are certainly very necessary. The difference is that if in 1993 it was possible to become a criminal judge of the Supreme Court without having had previous experience of criminal justice, it was like a forced situation, it is now very difficult to imagine such a thing. The people who are going to do this job should, in my opinion, be all those with long-standing practical experience of being a criminal judge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U32	As we agreed, a member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question. No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 630. Let's prep it. I vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, 'Releasing a Member of the Supreme Court, Lea Kivi' 630. Please take a stand and vote. 66 Members voted in favour of the draft, no one abstained, no one voted against. Draft 630 of the Riigikogu's decision of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, "Releasing a Member of the Supreme Court Lea Kivi from the Judicial Office' has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U33	Today's fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Raivo Aegi, member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Chair, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We will then see what happened between the first and second reading of the draft law 447 in the Committee on Legal Affairs. But for an introduction, a few words to refresh memory. The draft was launched by the Government of the Republic on 2 May 2017, so a long-standing draft. The first reading took place on 20 September 2017. The deadline for submitting amendments was 11 October 2017 and the members of the Riigikogu tabled amendments Uno Kaskpeit, Johannes Kert, Ain Lutsepp and Ants Laaneots. The aim of the draft is to waive the special pensions created in the Defence Forces, the police, border guards and the prosecutor's office to compensate for the low wages of the public sector in the early 1990s and 2000. The amendments would enter into force from 1 January 2020 and will concern those who enter the service after 1 January 2020. Special pensions will be abolished during the transitional period and special pension rights will be maintained for all those in service on 31 December 2019. As I said, those who join the service after 1 January 2020 no longer have a special pension. It should be noted that the impact of the changes is long-term, that these pensions will be granted for another 30 to 40 years, because those who are in service today will still receive this pension, and that these pensions will continue to be paid longer. The initial impact of the changes, if pension costs are to change or decrease, will not be reached until 20 to 30 years later. So this is indeed a very long step, with a long entry into force of the bill, in the sense that when will it once become "really effective." The Commission discussed the draft in preparation for its second reading five times. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Prosecutor's Office, the Defence Forces, the Defence Police Department, the Police and Border Guard Board participated in the meetings, as well as the representatives of the Estonian Assembly of Eru Officers. The Commission asked for an opinion on the draft from the Estonian Assembly of Political Officers, the Ministry of Defence, the National Defence Committee, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Defence Police Department, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Police Service Association, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Foreign Intelligence Board, the Estonian Reserve Officers' Board, the Social Insurance Board and the Defence Forces. Opinions and comments on the draft were also submitted by Riigikogu member Raivo Aeg. As you can see, the procedure has been inclusive and broad-based. Procedural decisions at second reading were reached in the Committee on Legal Affairs at its meeting on 4 June. Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Olga Ivanova, Peep Aru, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere, and Linnar as Advisor-Secretariat to Liivamägi Legal Affairs Committee, and Raini Laid. Members of the Riigikogu Ain Lutsepp and Johannes Kert, Deputy Secretary-General for the Defence Planning of the Ministry of Defence Meelis Oidsalu, Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office Dilaila Nahkur-Tammiksaar, Head of the Staff Office of the Police and Border Guard Board Janne Pikma and Law Office attorney Piret Andrekson, Deputy Director General Martin Perling and Head of the Office Olari Valtin, Adviser to the Criminal Law and Procedure Office of the Ministry of Justice Einar Hillep, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs Rait Kuuse, Head of the Social Security Department Mare Jõeorg, Head of Staff Policy Agne Nettan-Sepp and Adviser to the Legal Department Susanna Jurs, Legal Adviser to the Staff Policy Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Svetlana Meister and Adviser to Eneli Vensel. So at the meeting where the procedural decisions were taken, the circle of participants was also very and very wide. A total of eight amendments to the draft were tabled. The first amendment was tabled by the Ministry of Defence. The amendment represents the abolition of the limit age in the Defence Forces. While the current law provides for the release of a person from the service at the time of the entry into force of the limit age and is going to receive a special pension, given that those who join the military service from 1 January 2020 do not have a special pension, it was made to ensure that when the limit age is reached, people would not simply remain exposed to the sky before retirement age, figuratively speaking, a proposal that it would be appropriate to abolish the limit age and to allow them to earn their general retirement age. Then, on the one hand, people who have long served as defence forces would not be defied by the state, but who are told at some point that they are no longer qualified or able to serve the country, and would simply be retired without paying any additional compensation. In this respect, § 90 of the Defence Forces Service Act is amended, and then it is that, as a result of § 7 of the State Pension Insurance Act, the age limit is the same as the general retirement age which, when the person arrives, can move to a earned old-age pension. The Governing Commission's proposal was to take full account of this, with 10 members in favour and against 1. Amendment 2 was tabled by members of the Riigikogu Uno Kaskpeit, Johannes Kert, Ain Lutsepp and Ants Laaneots. The Committee on Legal Affairs has consensually rejected the proposal. In short, the substance of the matter was that the Government of the Republic decided to reduce the level of public service wages by 8% in 2009. Those who had at that time moved from the Defence Forces to a special pension at that time were still related to grades, so that when the salary increased, the pension increased, and when the salary decreased, the pension decreased as well, due to the recession, and according to the decision of the Government of the Republic, the grade was reduced and the pension for retired members of the Defence Forces decreased in the same way. But what happened in the meantime? Before the so-called pre-mup pension level was restored, pensions were decoupled from wages and indexed. This meant that indexation started at the so-called lower pension level, indexation started not at the pre-masculate pension level, but at this reduced pension level. This has put these pensioners in an unfair position compared to those who later retired, and also compared to other pensioners, because during the period of depression, as we know, no other pensions were reduced, old-age pensions remained at the same level, they were not reduced due to the recession. The second problem was that on 1 April 2013 a major wage reform took place in the Defence Forces, with wages rising on average by 50%. However, just before that, a number of members of the military service were retired and their pensions were unfairly counted from the so-called low base compared to those who continued their service after 1 April 2013. The parties who tabled this amendment wanted to eliminate this injustice. At the Commission's debate, it was agreed that the persons whose names I read before would withdraw their amendment, subject to the launch of a separate procedure on this subject. In view of the fact that such a commitment was made, the Commission consensually rejected the proposal. Speaking of this promise, on the outside of this bill, I will say for information that a new bill has been prepared, to which I have already begun to collect signatures in this Chamber, and I intend to hand it over on Thursday. So those who want to make up for this historic injustice or set up justice are welcome to sign. Amendment 3 was tabled by the Ministry of the Interior. Similar to Amendment 1, the abolition of the border age in the Police and Border Guard Act is under discussion here. There is also a border age from which a police officer and a border guard must leave the service. True, the Director-General is able to extend his period of service for one year, but this is neither sustainable nor natural. In the same way, given that people who enter the service after 1 January 2020 will no longer receive a special pension in the future and that there will be no gap between the time of leaving the service and the general retirement age, the same threshold age requirement will also be abolished in the PPS, i.e. the Police and Border Guard Act. This proposal was fully accepted by the lead committee and fully taken into account. Amendment 4 had been tabled by the Defence Police Department. The decision of the Governing Commission was not taken into account; the decision was consensual. The content of this amendment was, in short, as follows: The Defence Police Board submitted an additional proposal to the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee for consideration, according to which persons who had been recreated in the Republic of Estonia, since 20 August 1991, would also have the right to a pension for years earned by a police officer for at least 20 years, but whose service relationship ended after 31 December 2015 and whose pension law age will be fulfilled while working elsewhere. It is primarily intended for those who came from the so-called deep patriotism and began reconstruction and reconstruction after the restoration of the Republic of Estonia with dedication, to do a certain advantage, but, as I said, the commission of the commission has given it unconvincedly. Riigikogu member Raivo Aeg made his proposals. I was talking here about the restoration of justice from the Defence Forces before 1 January 2010 on pensions for retired Defence Forces. Similarly, pensions in the police department prior to 2010 were linked to wages and, in the same way, in relation to the recession, the grades were reduced by 8%, which also reduced pensions. In the meantime, indexation was carried out, the amount of the pension was decoupled from the grades and then the basis for calculating the pension was this reduced pension. However, there was no indexation in 2010 and 2011 and only in 2012 there was an index of 1,044. In parallel with the agreement reached on Amendment 2, we agreed that in the case of police officers, the elimination of this injustice would also take place with a separate draft law that I mentioned earlier and which we intend to put into Riigikogu proceedings on Thursday. My second proposal is to amend, together with draft 447, the provisions of the so-called VAPS, i.e. the pension law for the years that I have earned. The general principle of the VAPS is that, if there are any requirements for certain professionals and if they are no longer able to continue working, the VAPS pension is paid until the general retirement age is reached. At the same time, however, there is an exception which allows police, rescue and detention staff to start paying this pension after they have completed 25 years of service and continue to work in their posts. So in the case of 25 years of service, there was a pretty good premium, which is certainly not feasible in the context of the state budget. I proposed abolishing it, and it also received the unanimous support of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendment 6 was tabled by the Police and Border Guard Board. The amendment provides for the amendment of subsection 3 (3) of the draft and for the wording of subsection 1112 (2) of the Police and Border Guard Act as follows: 'In calculating the pension of a police officer, the wage rate corresponding to the grade of the last post referred to in subsection 1 (1) of this section and the level of remuneration referred to in subsection 1 (2) of this section shall be taken as the basis for the level of remuneration applicable on the day of his release from the police service, and the most favourable rate chosen from the last five years referred to in subsection 1 of this section, shall be the amount of remuneration valid during his or her employment in that post. " To sum up this long story briefly, it means that if, for the past five years, a police officer has worked in a position, for example, with a grade of 10 corresponding to a certain rate of pay, when he retires, he can look five years ago in this sense. However, if he had moved to a lower grade in the course of his service, he would be able to choose the best grade at that time, when he retired, the salary rate corresponding to the salary rate in force on the day of his retirement, which corresponds to that of his earlier grade. This means that, in the meantime, wage reforms, changes have taken place and that the wage rate that a person has never had during the service is based on, in other words, favourable conditions. The proposal was that pensions should still be taken into account on the best or most favourable salary or income received during the last five years in the service, which is right in itself. The second amendment by the Police and Border Guard Board concerned a small transitional period for cadets. Those who are in employment at least as of 31 December 2019 shall continue to receive a special pension and those who are coming into service as of 1 January 2020 shall no longer receive it. However, there is one flight to the cadets who will graduate from the National Defence Academy and who has not yet reached service as of 31 December 2019. This was also proposed and approved that those who have graduated from the Academy of Home Affairs and, within three months of 1 January 2020, will receive this special pension, because they have started their studies and have been in police service during internships, but here is the special feature that during their cadet status there is no official police service. This advantage will be created so that they have the possibility to receive a special pension. These are those who enter service after 1 January 2020 for three months after they have graduated from the Academy of Home Affairs. Then there was...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U35	Dear waitress, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U36	I'll take some more time, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U37	It's possible. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U38	There are two more proposals. Amendment 7 has been the result of a proposal by the Police Workers' Trade Union; it is simply a drafting proposal. It was a mess. It could initially be considered from this wording that only those who have reached the age of 55 as of 31 December 2019 will be entitled to a special pension as of 31 December 2019 and in the future will be entitled to a special pension. It was simply that the explanatory memorandum might have been understood in the same way, but the text of the law was different. It was simply a drafting amendment to make the text of the law more understandable and unambiguous. The eighth is a proposal from the Justice Department. Its first point amends the law of the Prosecutor's Office and the second point concerns the amendment of the law of the Prosecutor's Office. I'm not going to read these long texts to you here, they're all available. There was also a debate about the differences in approaches between the Prosecutor's Office Act and the Police and Border Guard Act for this five-year retirement period. Policemen maintained this calculation on the basis of the best income or salary, but the prosecutor's office would still have been able to choose the salary applicable on the day of retirement, which would also have meant that the basis for calculating the pension could have been the salary that this person had never actually received. It was proposed and proposed to recast it. This was brought into line and now, under the PPS and the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, pension accounts are carried out analogously. This last proposal led to the holding of a new meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the next day. Similarly, it was decided, by consensus, to make such a change and to introduce this proposal. In short, that is all. Decisions were also taken on 5 June. The chairman of the committee proposed that, if the second reading was completed today, the draft law 447 should be referred to third reading on 14 June, with 5 members in favour and 1 member against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U39	Thank you very much, honourable waitress, for a thorough and detailed presentation. Despite that, or I don't know, maybe that's why you have questions. Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U40	I have a call request. I pressed the wrong button.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U41	This is the second category. Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Raivo! I have one question. I have raised the question on several occasions in the Commission that the Ministry of Defence could give us an overview of special pensions and age limits in the countries next to us, in Finland, Latvia, Lithuania. To this day, I have not seen the matter they have presented. I don't know what might be the reason. I think they're trying to beat the wedge with their ideas. This is about the same as destroying border guards; in countries around them, border guards are independent everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U43	Thank you for your question. I assure you, yes, you've asked for it many times, but this review has not been received. I really don't know why the Department of Defense hasn't gotten to this analysis yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U44	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It is understandable that special pensions, pensions developed over the years and all of them were introduced in their time as additional incentives and incentives. Today we're losing them. In the light of this loss, can we now claim that the wages of defence forces, rescuers and police officers are competitive in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U46	Thank you for your question. Well, I'm getting a pension on these two things and having special pensions and salary as a motivator, it's like I don't have the guts to tie together. I am certainly not saying that the salaries of military personnel, police officers and rescue officers are too high. Today, in front of the Riigikogu, we see rescue officers giving information with their posters or expressing dissatisfaction that their salaries do not motivate new entrants to join the service. The old ones will be held, but there won't be any more. The police department is actually facing the same problem, and I understand that the Defence Forces are also facing the same problem. All the so-called public services have the same problem. The demographic situation is also causing problems, apart from the small pay, because competition for young capable men and women in employment has simply become so intense and the need is greater than Estonia's demographic situation can satisfy. So here we members of the Riigikogu, politicians, certainly have an important role to play so that, with our demands and direction, civil servants, especially those working in the field of internal security, internal security, which is actually one of the foundations of the existence of the state, the functioning of the state, have sufficient wages to keep people working, to motivate people to go to work there and to move wages towards general development, to the change in the cost of living, rather than to stand still. Otherwise, at some point again, it will be discovered that, oh-oh-oh, now it is very bad, and then we will have to start raising wages by 20% or more at a time when people are already demoted and frustrated by this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U47	Madis Milling, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U48	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Was there any difference in the Commission? This bill deals with defence forces and prosecutors in a single paragraph, but by its very nature these professions and their specifics are different. Is that what the committee was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U49	I'm sure they're different. The Commission discussed at length, for example, whether it would be possible to eliminate this marginal age in the Defence Forces. The arguments for maintaining the limit age were precisely such that we would have a functional reserve so that people would go to reserve if they were still at the age when their capacity was maintained. The second argument was that if they are too old for military service, their 'functionality in service' is no longer what the Defence Forces expect. These are, of course, arguments, but neither the Defence Forces nor the Ministry of Defence had proposed other solutions, so how to compensate for this intervening time. If a person has reached the limit age and has to leave the service, but there is still ten years or more until his general retirement age, what will he do? He dedicated himself to the state during his service, and now the country sends him out of the door to open the sky to see for yourself how you're doing. It's not human behavior. Rather, today's situation and the decision that they should be given the opportunity to continue serving in the Defence Forces and also in the police until the general retirement age is reached. Then it is up to the organisations to implement these people, whether they can be placed in a room for work, somewhere in the Defence Forces to deal with the proceedings at the Police and Border Guard Board. Such work no longer requires such a good physical condition. In a mental, mental sense, these people are actually at the best age with all their life experience and previous work experience. They must be implemented in other areas where they can use their knowledge and experience for the benefit of the organisation and the state. That was the way in which this debate was conducted and the possibility of other compensatory measures being found. The condition is, of course, that, above all in the Defence Forces, but the same rules still apply to police and border guards, that there are physical training requirements and that there must also be certain knowledge. Several tests and tests must be carried out. If a person no longer fulfils the conditions for employment, he or she must leave the service anyway, even before he or she is retired. But if a person is physically strong, in his knowledge and spiritually speaking, he meets all the requirements, then it is simply because of age censorship that it is not humane to send him out of service. It has also been pointed out, by the way, by the Chancellor of Justice, that there may be a very strong barrier to the Constitution when, simply because of age, people are told that you can no longer work in one area of life or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U50	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U51	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! In the context of the world and the surrounding world, can we now consider ourselves to be a course-building and a new direction, or is that not the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U52	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I am now really also relying on the question before Uno Kaskpeit, which revealed that we have not received the analysis from the Ministry of Defence or the Defence Forces of the situation in our neighbouring countries, or in Europe at all, in terms of special pensions and retirement. In this case, I owe you an answer. However, when we talk about police, here we are no directional indicators of any kind. As far as I know, I can say that, for example, all the Scandinavian countries, the Nordic countries, many European countries at all, have chosen the path of no more special pensions years ago. There were also long transition periods. There have been special pensions in almost all countries, but after long transition periods, they have still been abolished. Additional incentives packages have been implemented, solutions have been implemented to enable people to continue working, and a general retirement age is an age when people in special services leave their position and retire.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U53	Dear waitress, thank you very much. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Laaneots will take the floor first. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U54	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! We are debating today a draft law whose importance in the field of defence must not be underestimated. Our wrong decision could cause irreparable damage to the development of defence forces over the long term, but probably also police and border guards, in a situation where Europe is actually on the brink of a new Cold War. According to bill 447 submitted by the Minister of Defence, the special pension of the Defence Forces will be waived to active military personnel entering service from 1 January 2020. Its proposal is also to abandon the limits of active troops and allow them to work in another company at the same time. Raivo Aeg here was already talking about special pensions. I'm gonna stop at one of my last sentences. During the Cold War period, European countries had a general military duty. The armed forces were generally divided into two parts: peacetime and wartime. For example, the German Bundeswehris had 560000 - 570000 men, depending on the year, and during the war there would have been 2 million men under the gun. There were 350,000 men in the Finnish military army, and 35,000 men in peacetime. The border age of officers and officers in active service depended and still depends on the capabilities and success of those countries where there is a general duty of defence. Someone will be team leader or company leader in terms of abilities, another will be senior officer, and few will be senior officers, generals or admirals. Junior officers, ensigns, lieutenants, captains and fellow officers, depending on the country, received and receive retirement from 45 to 50 years of age, if they have been in active service for at least 20 years, senior officers at 55 to 60 years of age, I mean Majors, Lieutenant Colonels, Colonels and Senior Officers at the age limit, depending on the position, this limit could and could be 55 to 65 years. I myself became Commander of the Defence Forces when I was 58 years old. Why was this done and done? In most countries, military units were in reserve, they needed professional leadership in the event of a crisis, and practically all officers leaving active service and cadarial officers, of course looking at their age, were assigned to military positions. In countries such as Finland, Sweden and Switzerland, there is still a great deal of attention to the fact that the reserve forces have as much training and experience as possible in the reserves of officers. We went the same way. For example, I have not heard in Estonia that none of the officers who went to the Defence Forces Reserve would have found a job. It is also not known that in any country the differentiated age of the active force would have been completely abandoned. Can you even imagine a 60-to-five-year-old group leader or company commander doing a battle assignment or with your squad or group or even a company running somewhere in the woods? Is that physically possible? The Minister of Defence's proposal does not take into account the security situation in Europe, which has deteriorated significantly. In Estonia, national defence is based on general military duty. We have 21000 members of the Defence Forces in the prescribed period of war, this is not a state secret, which is completely inadequate for the first protection of the state and twice the minimum requirement. The practice of modern wars has confirmed the rule that there should be at least 10% of officers in the military or defence forces. Thus, in the current 21000 armed forces, at least 2100 officers are required, of which, you can say, 50% are also in active service during peacetime. At the same time, we have over 60,000 unit-based military personnel in the reserve, who could be formed by 20 more battalions during the war, but most of them are not included in the wartime units. In total, the Defence Forces, the Defence League and the reserve have more than 4200 officers in names and on paper, say so, half of them cannot be used during wartime, they cannot receive the necessary refresher training during peacetime, in fact they have disqualified themselves. The same limit age is also in the current Defence Service Act. The approximation of the limit age of officers and sub-officers required by the new law to the limit age of civil servants, known to be 65 years old, will nullify the motivation to become a young military officer and stop the career opportunities of officers, or career paths, since the older generation takes the peaks into its hands and for a long time. To sum up, the reserve units will probably be left without qualified management. There is also a word for abandoning the restriction on participation in business and companies. Only a small proportion of established companies are usually successful. In this way, there is a risk that an active soldier who is going to deal with it will have to spend more time in his business than in his service, and financial difficulties may also arise as a result of his participation in the company. The question also arises as to who he is, whether he is an officer or an entrepreneur. In practice, the so-called scheme is currently underway: for example, an active soldier is a member of a private company, but a member of the management board is either a family member or an ascending or descending relative. Enabling work in a company is not absolute and can take place only under the conditions laid down in § 60 of the Civil Service Act after consideration of the Minister of Defence's amendments. But it's still ahead of us. If an increase in the pension of the active troops and the age limit are abandoned, the state should also give something in return in view of the physical burden and the risks posed by the dangerous profession of the armed forces. A further question arises as to how much the active army can work in full service and, after work or on holidays, in its own company. In addition, how is it ensured that during the active service, the active force does not do another job? Consideration must also be given to the extent to which the choices made by the active troops are influenced by such circumstances that if they have a civil job in, for example, South Estonia, they will be assigned to the service either to Ida-Virumaa or to Tallinn or to a foreign country. The fundamental changes in the law that have been presented to us should not be made in haste. The impact of the Minister of Defence's proposals should be thoroughly assessed, also taking into account the compensatory package. If the so-called special pension for active troops is waived, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces should develop a compensation package that supports the motivation of the active troops. Pending its development, the 447 bill should be properly considered and the withdrawal of the business restriction and age limits of the active troops should be removed from it. That is the time until 2020. To sum it up. The crisis in the Defence Forces has already begun. Last year went on motivation and career... Can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U55	I'm afraid I can't. If you have any conclusion or suggestion, please submit it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U56	Two sentences. There is also a significant decline in mood among young officers and junior officers. My proposal is to interrupt the second reading and put this draft to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U57	Is a written application coming up for this? Please present it! Uno Kaskpeit, please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be a little more specific. We have not been presented with this comparison with Finland or Latvia and Lithuania, but I know so much that Finland does not call it a special pension, it is a pension for the years it has earned, and the age limits coincide with what is in our current law. So somebody's genius thinks that Estonian men will be more capable in the future. We're at a serious crossroads with Bill 447 today. I haven't figured out who the geniuses have put together such a piece of writing. This draft has been discussed quite a lot in the Commission, but I have never received an answer to the question of who, or which country near us, it is prepared for. As has been said before, I have requested several times that the Ministry of Defence take stock of the age limits and other differences of people in active service in Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. Unfortunately, to date, this has not been submitted to the Commission. We are in a geopolitical situation similar to those of these countries. We have a troubled neighbor who's been harassing us all in history. I can't imagine how a 60-year-old platoon leader, with a group of young men, will be able to walk the terrain together, or how a 60-year-old police officer will be able to watch the streets and chase the bad guys. Another ridiculous thing is to repeal the restriction on the participation and participation of men in active employment in entrepreneurship and in companies and the restrictions on working outside the performance of their duties. What happens when a member of the Defence Forces in Võru, who has a company, is assigned to another place of service, such as Tapa or elsewhere, what happens to a person's business and work in his own company? These are serious issues that have not been analysed with common sense; our situation has not been compared to that of our neighbours. For several years, the planned 50 study places of the military school have not been completed and only a third of students are willing to go to border guard work. There is no point in talking about border training, as it has been colluded with police training, border training has been reduced by 30% and police training is increased by this amount. I can tell you for sure that after 2020, the schools mentioned above will finally collapse, because no one will go there again. Border guard is a good example. Geniuses of their own wisdom destroyed this organization when they joined the police. Our neighbours, mentioned above, have failed to do such foolishness, and they do not even think about it. The National Audit Office's report on the Police and Border Guard Board to the Riigikogu on 19 April 2016 said that there were about 5,000 people working in this institution in 2016, which was a thousand fewer than in 2010. Even in an organisation the size of the Police and Border Guard Board, such a decrease is significant. The National Audit Office also predicted changes in the staff of the PBA until 2025 and this analysis showed that the institution is in real trouble. The workforce will continue to decline significantly, by over 1,700 in the coming years. To put it plainly, this means that the PBGB will no longer be able to carry out the tasks assigned to them in the future. This is a problem already, but the situation will get even worse in the near future. It's not just my problem, the waitress here. This was an excerpt from the audit of the National Audit Office, which was intended for you, dear colleagues. We can be sure that fathers and grandfathers are very good at explaining to their children what awaits them if any of them wish to choose a military or policeman's specialty. As a result, Estonian national defence and domestic security will collapse in the near future. I have only one suggestion for you: remember well this moment of button push, and when the time comes to get away from Estonia, you can look in the mirror before you go and admit that yes, I also pressed the wrong button politically. Unfortunately, there is no border guard, either, so that only women and children can be ordered to cross the border, as this organisation has long been demolished with the help of this hall. The current situation shows very well that someone is very busy pushing through this draft, because today there is a second reading and the third reading is already the day after tomorrow. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I hand over the proposal to interrupt reading. However, I believe that this issue still needs to be addressed and analysed in relation to the situation of our neighbours, not to be hasty and to demolish our defence and internal security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U59	We will vote on this proposal after examining the amendments. Tarmo Kruusimäe, from there? Please! Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U60	Thank you, Mr President. I listened with interest to two previous presentations, and I have to admit that in order to describe the situation in black colors, there is no need to graduate from an art university. It was good news that if today we already have a crisis in the Defence Forces and in the Defence Forces, it would be more reasonable, like an ostrich, to hide our heads in the sand and stop reading, because we still have time. I don't know what thoughts these people have in their heads, who hear the word 'crisis', and in whom it triggers the mechanism, that now we have plenty of time. What I want to say at the end of this is that the unrecognized political observer, Bjorn, has said that the most important thing is to find a hole, then we will also find the edge of this hole. Gentlemen, your amendment sounds like we're going to all of us to look outside to find a hole in the yard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U61	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. There are nine amendments to this draft law; we will examine them together. The first amendment has been proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account. The second amendment was tabled by Johannes Kert, Ain Lutsepp, Uno Kaskpeit and Ants Laaneots, the decision of the commission is to be disregarded and the proposal is not to be voted on. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The same applies to the fourth amendment. The fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. We have examined all the amendments, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws. Orally, Ants Laaneots also proposed the same thing, but a written proposal from the Group is needed, so we will follow the proposal put forward by the EKRE. We'll vote on it in a few minutes. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws 447. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against and no abstentions. The EKE's proposal for interruption was not supported. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U62	Fifth item on today's agenda: First reading of draft Water Act 643 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Siim Kisler, Minister for the Environment of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft Water Act has been prepared in the framework of the codification of environmental law and aims to replace the Water Act in force so far. The current Water Act has been in force since 1994 and has been amended more than 50 times and otherwise. In the new Water Act, the legislation has been re-systematised and is better understood by the user of the law. The main objective of codification is to organise the existing law. As in the current Water Act, the draft provides the basis for planning and organising water use and protection, water protection requirements, rights and obligations of persons and responsibility for water use. It also provides for national monitoring of water use and protection requirements and for responsibility for non-compliance. Since clean water is a common property for all of us, the draft concerns both individual water users, water users and public and local authorities involved in the organisation of water management. The overall objective is to use water sustainably and to protect against pollution. Now the changes compared to the current Water Act. First, the definition of a water body is clarified. According to the current law, the water body is flooded with all water, the draft law sets out from the point of view human water-filled facilities that are not considered to be water bodies, such as bio ponds of sewage treatment plants, wet cleaners, aquaculture ponds and basins, rainwater collection systems and other buildings similar to those permanently or temporarily filled with water, permanently built by man for a specific purpose. This means that it is not reasonable to establish protection zones for such facilities, but they are subject to general water protection requirements. In view of the problems encountered in practice, the regulation relating to the Water Protection Zone has been amended. At the edge of the main ditches with a catchment area of less than 10 square kilometres [10 sq km], the scope of the water protection zone has been reduced to one metre instead of the current 10 meters. There are about 170 of these major ditches, with an overall length of about 500 miles [800 km]. Similarly, it is not appropriate to limit the extraction of mineral resources and cutting of tree and shrubs on the shores of the upstream and main ditches of such low-water land improvement systems. The main role of these waters is to keep the humidity regime suitable for the use of the earth. According to the current Water Act, wooded land must be subject to separate consent from the Environmental Board for felling of the tree and shrub fronts. According to the draft law, the request for consent to felling of the tree and shrub fronts in the forest land by the water body is compatible with the forest notification procedure. The amendment will reduce the administrative burden. The criteria for actions requiring water space are specified. According to the current law, it is not possible to understand unambiguously which volume of water is needed, either from zero or from a reasonable amount. The draft sets out specific criteria for deepening, dumping and the placing of solids in water, from which water is needed and from which time the activities need to be registered with the Environmental Board. If solid substances are placed in a body of water, for example, in the case of riddles and bridges or in the case of dumping more than 100 cubic metres of substances, an additional room is required. The basis for determining the extent of the sanitary protection area to the well's water grip has been modified. According to the current Water Act, as a rule, a well has a sanitary area of 50 metres. Depending on the amount of water to be taken and the protection of groundwater, the owner of the well can apply to the Environmental Board for a reduction in the scope of the sanitary protection area. According to the draft, when a new well is built, the scope of the sanitary protection area is determined immediately by either 10, 30 or 50 metres, taking into account the water grip productivity and the protection of the groundwater layer thus opened. If more than 500 cubic metres of water are taken per day, adequate sanitary protection may be up to 200 metres. If the yield of the drinking water grip exceeds 500 cubic metres per day and the sanitary protection area does not provide adequate protection for the quality of the water grip, the draft may establish a larger-scale drinking water grip with a calculated range and limits to be determined separately for each area. In practice, it has become apparent that several types of activities are not of such a risk to the aquatic environment as to require more space to carry them out. At the same time, the Environmental Board needs to direct such activities in order to avoid the cumulative effect of individual activities on the aquatic environment. Such activities with less impact will have to be registered with the Environmental Board instead of applying for a water permit. For example, the placing of 5 to 100 cubic metres of solids in water bodies, as well as the installation of geothermal systems in water bodies, require registration. The registration procedure is simpler and faster than the permit procedure. The procedures for accreditation of water samplers have been amended. The draft provides for the integration of the training and accreditation systems of drinking water samplers of the Ministry of Social Affairs and water samplers of the Ministry of the Environment so that the person should undergo only one training and accreditation. The Ministerial Regulation sets out specific requirements for rainwater, water from mines and quarries, cooling water and water from aquaculture. The general requirements for waste water laid down by the Government of the Republic Regulation are currently applied to these types of water. The Water Act also regulates the protection of the marine environment. The area of marine environmental protection also depends partly on the regulations in the maritime transport sector, which are currently being reviewed under the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It focuses mainly on the commercial law of the sea. International law on the protection of the marine environment is partly reflected in the Water Act, the Port Act and the Maritime Safety Act. The Water Act deals most with the mandatory activities of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive of the European Union, such as the drafting and implementation of the Marine Strategy. As an update, Chapter 11 of the draft contains a section of marine research, which has so far been more precisely unregulated. The procedure for granting a maritime research permit is specified: authorisation will be granted by the Ministry of the Environment. At present, about 15 permits are granted per year for ships from other countries to carry out surveys on the Estonian sea area. According to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, we must also authorise research on the vessels of scientific institutions flying the flag of Estonia and on any marine explorer wishing to explore the sea in the oceans outside the jurisdiction of the States. It is important to regulate the granting of the study permit, as this ensures the submission of survey data to the Estonian authorities, as well as the control of data collected in the Estonian maritime area. The draft provides for the possibility of extracting mineral resources in areas that are located on the land after extraction and also in the water protection zone for mine-generated water bodies. The Environmental Board agrees to this and sets out measures to mitigate the negative impacts in the mineral extraction permit. The amendment will have a positive impact, as it will allow more efficient and sustainable use of mineral resources and a more integrated organisation of the extracted areas. For example, due to the restrictions that have been in place so far, there have been situations where mining alongside water from extraction is intended to continue, but this has not been possible due to water constraints, so the difference between the new career and the existing water body has to be left. This leads, on the one hand, to the loss of mineral resources, because part of the stock is unduly unextracted and, on the other hand, it makes it difficult to find a comprehensive clean-up solution, as two or more small bodies of water should be created instead of one large body of water. There is also a positive impact on the activities of companies, as the change facilitates the management of mining and, in certain cases, also the technological solution to mining. Compared to the current Water Act, the provisions relating to national supervision and the up-to-date misdemeanours have been specified. The current Water Act provides for very general misdemeanours, such as violation of water usage requirements, violation of water protection and use procedures. However, specific misdemeanours have been broken down in the draft, such as non-compliance with environmental requirements for agricultural activities, non-compliance with operating restrictions in the water protection zone, non-compliance with water or water water requirements or with water permit requirements. According to both the current Water Act and the draft, the local government unit establishes a code for the local treatment and disposal of waste water. At the moment, the local authority cannot monitor compliance with the rules it has established; the draft provides for this possibility. The levels of penalties imposed by the legal person for offences against the environment are also increased. Monitoring statistics show that the current levels of fines have not had the necessary impact on the behaviour of persons in areas of activity where the benefits or financial savings from illegal use of natural resources or non-compliance with environmental requirements may be high. Therefore, when imposing sanctions, it is important to take into account, inter alia, the economic benefits that non-compliance with the requirements of the law may give to a person. Fine rates should not be lower than this. Depending on the area, the draft has also made other, minor, substantive or technical improvements to the current Water Act. Overall, the adoption of the draft reduces the administrative burden to some extent and the implementation of the law becomes more sensible for water users, without compromising the aquatic environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U64	The first question to the minister is put by Peeter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U65	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There are many questions, one of which is that the Minister for the Environment can say or determine whether or not there is transitional water in some regions. There's a certain definition of transplant water, but according to the explanatory memorandum, the minister can tell us where it is. These discussions have taken place in connection with the Kasari River and the Gulf of Haapsalu and Saunja. Could you make such a regulation or arrangement, and if you do so, what will really happen to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U66	Thank you. According to the definition, migratory water is surface water close to the river mouth, which is partly salty due to the proximity of the sea, but which is greatly affected by the fresh water inflow. No part of the Baltic Sea or any part of the river has been declared transitional in Estonia. This is probably the reason why it does not change very much any regulation. If there are specific reasons, you might consider it, but I think that basically nothing will change, it is rather a matter of definition.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U67	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U68	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Worldwide, the cultivation of different species in water bodies, especially in the sea, is gaining momentum. This is considered to be an economic activity that promises income, which has also attracted interest in Estonia. Your explanatory statement gives examples of growing red algae and edible mussels, or at least testing them. The law has a completely new paragraph in this regard, and the explanatory memorandum mentions it on page 12. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will have a great mandate to issue regulations on this subject. Would you like to comment on how broad this mandate will be and how many of these new species are coming, what people may want to grow in the 'economic sense'?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U69	Thank you. In the case of aquaculture, there may be a large number of these species, but this is primarily a question of environmental impact assessment. Why has aquaculture not started in Estonia? The reason is that the effects are unexplored - the deterioration of the coastal waters in our bays is feared and, therefore, there has been a great deal of caution on these issues. Now we have one application officially inside, but there are a number of interested people who would like to be involved in fish farming. The problem is that the environmental impact assessment must identify compensatory measures and, at all, the conditions under which such action would be possible. As far as I know, shellfish farming, and probably certain algae growing, are very suitable for combined fish farming, because they have a compensatory effect. Boxing reduces the negative impact of fish farming. All in all, it's probably possible. We have discussed at various meetings the issue of how to make it easier for companies who are interested in aquaculture at sea to apply for such permits, so that this can actually happen. The question now is, as I said, in particular how environmental impacts are assessed, what are the expected consequences, what are the mitigating measures. Rather, we have been very careful, but I think that in the near future, together with compensatory measures, these first attempts at aquaculture at sea will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U70	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U71	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There is another question. It says here that nitrogen fertilisers must not be spread into the field from October 15 to spring. In this context, the question of whether phosphorus-containing fertiliser can be spread in winter has been raised during the coordination process. But it's not in the answers, the phosphorus in the table has slipped over nicely. Is it okay, or is it not okay to spread this fertilizer in winter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U72	The general provisions on fertilisation are § 169 and § 170 and also further § 171, 172, 173. Paragraph 173 contains limits for nitrogen and phosphorus in fertiliser, which must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U73	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the table of coordination, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has noted that local authorities are being added to a number of new tasks according to its draft law, while its impact has not been analysed. With regard to expenditure, it is said that there will be no new expenditure, and in response to the remark it is added that there will in fact not be any new tasks. Please explain whether there are new tasks for the local government according to the draft law and, if so, what and how large they are!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U75	From my previous experience as a member of the government, and especially in the area of local government, I know that there are many standard letters coming from local government associations, where the first sentence has always been the same as the one you quoted. And it is often left unspecified, unspecific, unexplained. I dare say this is an analogous case. You can't bring anything out directly. If you read this draft and the explanatory memorandum, you may understand that we have tried to simplify regulation as much as possible. I also mentioned one question in the report: it is now the situation that the municipality is laying down rules for the on-site treatment and disposal of waste water, i.e. the waste water management of private households, but according to the law, the municipality is not in a position to monitor compliance with its own rules. Now we're giving this opportunity to the municipality. I guess municipalities in general, including associations of municipalities often try to consider any such change as an additional obligation, but I wouldn't look at it that way. Rather, it gives the municipality the opportunity to exercise its rights reasonably within its territory, not just to issue regulations, but also to supervise them. One point of dispute has been the land tax. In fact, the draft also contains an amendment to the Land Tax Act, § 309 of the Land Tax Act, and it states that the water protection zone and the water cover sanitary protection area, which are subject to a restriction on economic activity, do not have to pay land tax. There is no such specific provision in the Land Tax Act in force, although it states that land tax is not payable on land which is prohibited by law or by law. The current situation is that some municipalities implement it and some obviously do not pay attention to it. But the general logic is that no land tax is charged from such an area. Adding this point would provide unambiguous clarity that these areas belong to this category, but the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities is opposed to such explicit clarification. The relevant land tax amounts are certainly not high. I think, for the sake of clarity, this provision would be a good one. As the legislator of the Riigikogu, it is possible to discuss the matter one way or the other, but the general logic is that if economic activity is hindered, we will not charge land tax from these areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U76	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U77	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The Water Act is undoubtedly one of the most important regulations affecting the status of the Baltic Sea. But I don't count it out of the bill if it gets tougher now. Perhaps you will describe the impact of the future law on the status of the Baltic Sea. Is the situation relatively the same from the point of view of the water flowing into the Baltic Sea, or what? This is the subject of codification.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U78	Thank you. In general, the explanatory memorandum states that the impact of these changes is small in the large picture. I think they do not have a very significant impact on the state of the Baltic Sea as a whole either. It is important that the concept of water bodies is specified in the meaning of the law, and it is also clearer when an extra bed is needed, when it is not. In conclusion, I think that this impact is a positive situation, because the company understands the law unambiguously. At present, there are situations in which there is an object which, according to law, should be regarded as a body of water and should establish restricted zones, but this is not done. I think that this clarity will in the end also have a positive impact on the state of the environment whenever it is unambiguously clear to both the public sector and the private sector what needs to be done in a particular situation. At present, it is often such a grey area: it is as if there should be a restricted zone everywhere, but everyone understands that common sense does not allow this order to be applied in this way. In the end, if there is legal clarity, there will certainly be a certain positive effect, but it cannot be said that there will be some drastic change.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U79	Thomas Väinaste.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have a question about raw slurry. I have experience that when raw slurry is placed in the field during dry seasons and if it is still a karst area and then it rains for three or four days, it leads the slurry to the groundwater between the layers of limestone and ruins the well. And this well will not be cleansed with any power until it is biologically cleared. It took us three years specifically to get the well water back in order. The law does not contain this prohibition anywhere, so the Environmental Board cannot impose any restrictions on anyone, any farm or farm, in order to avoid such a thing. But it would make sense if such a restriction had been written in somewhere anyway. What's the state of things now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U81	Thank you. The extent of the sanitary protection area of the surface water is determined, the possibility of increasing the sanitary protection area of the water grip has been determined, the drinking water supply area has been defined, the restrictions in place there. There's a containment on the maintenance area. And we often also have protected areas. I think that the best way to look at a particular case is to look at a specific place, a specific karst area, a specific pollution If none of these provisions really restricts the pollution of drinking water of this kind, then the sanitary protection area is probably misdefined or there is some other reason at stake.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U82	Thomas Väinaste.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U83	In Vinni parish, when you drive towards Blackwater by Rakvere, you have a large karst area on your right, where you shouldn't put a dick, but there's no provision in law that you can't. And if the parish now calls the Environmental Board, they say they can't do anything about it, there's no word about it in the law. And the entrepreneur still puts raw slurry in the field, you know! The slurry is put down in dry seasons, but when the rains come, the rainwater takes the slurry to the groundwater. If we can't legitimise such a ban, then there is, I say in Estonian, complete nonsense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U84	Thank you. This is serious. I'll take note of that information. We are discussing and, if there is really such a situation that, for some reason, the Environmental Board cannot intervene now, the Ministry proposes to improve the text for the second reading of the bill in such a way that cases of this kind are definitely excluded in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U85	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Presentation by Peeter Ernits, member of the Environment Commission, will be made by the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U86	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen. This bill is about as thick as Tammsaare's 'Holder of Desert' and tries to reconcile separate laws, the principles of which in some respects have been completely different in some respects. It's a long and beautiful bill. Several of those who did this have even changed their last name in the meantime. Twice it has been in the coordination circle between the two years, but the work started around 2010. So a long-made beauty. The 'codification' has been aimed at looking at water bodies and water as a whole. The Committee on the Environment discussed this on Monday, 4 June. Almost all members of the Commission were present; only Andres Metsoja and Kalle Palling were absent. The Minister of the Environment and Deputy Chancellor Harry Liiv, who knows everything about water, Karin Kroon, Head of the Water Department, and Hendrik Põldoja, Chief Specialist of the Ministry's Water Department, were also present. The Minister has already spoken in a concise and quite clear way today about what the draft concerns, and I am not going to rephrase it. I merely note that Harry Liiv stressed that the new requirement is to introduce a permit for marine research, which is not in force in the current Water Act, which has been in force since 1994. Chairman Rainer Vakra was interested in the way in which the registration of potentially hazardous activities on the river basin was carried out, whether it was similar to the notification of the forest. Hendrik Põldoja replied that it is not an electronic system at the moment, but maybe in the future it will be created. According to the draft, as in the past, a written notification must be submitted, which the Environmental Board will review and provide a reply within a month. Mr Terje Trei asked for clarification of the extension of the water sampling and accreditation obligation to all holders of a water permit. Hendrik Põldoja stated that the water sampling service may also be purchased from an accredited laboratory, it does not have to be purchased by itself. I was interested that if the water protection zone of the main ditch is now one meter, is it under the same law of the new 'Syroja master' that the protection zone falls away and if it falls, how much more of it will come from the economically useful surface? Karin Kroon replied that according to the current Water Act, the water protection zone of all main ditches is 10 metres, and the draft is to be converted into one metre. I mean, it's 10 meters now, but if we pass this law, the scope of this water protection zone is one meter. Of course, we are talking about ditches that are located in a place where the water catchment area is less than 10 square kilometers. Karin Kroon pointed out that the aim was to harmonise the rules on the upstream of the main ditches and the ground improvement system. On all other waters of water, lakes, rivers, the protection zone remains the same as it is now. Hendrik Põldoja said that the water sites whose protection zone is decreasing are 830 kilometres in length. And if the water protection zone falls from 10 metres to one metre, then the land that can be managed peacefully will be increased to 15 square kilometres for Estonia due to this small improvement. Rainer Vakra wondered why a reduction in the water protection zone was necessary. Karin Kroon said that the fronts of the main ditches and the ground improvement system are actually the same thing. The 10-metre water protection zone of the main ditch is a historical heritage. Both waters should be considered equivalent. That is why this is the proposal. I was wondering if this also concerned the restrictions on the movement of water on the shores of water, as we know, some time ago, it was still linked to the Water Act. Hendrik Põldoja replied that there was no fear. Everyone's right to move on the shoreline is regulated by the General Part of the Environmental Code Act; the new Water Act does not affect this in any way. Rainer Vakra wanted to know why the possible penalty rates should rise. Hendrik Põldoja stated that the current Water Act provides for certain fines for the seven configurations. The maximum rate shall be EUR 32000 to be paid in the event of non-reporting of oil. The main formations consist of non-compliance with water use requirements. A legal person must pay a financial penalty of up to EUR 2000 for a violation of the water regime. Minister Kiisler said that the reason for the amendment is to harmonise the level of fines for different environmental infringements. Terje Trei continued on the subject and said that smaller companies could sometimes cause greater damage to bodies of water than larger companies and the fine should not depend on the solvency of the company. Minister Kiisler explained that the maximum rate was increased, as the EUR 2 000 fine in the event of significant pollution is a violation of people's sense of justice. And environmentally irresponsible companies can go bankrupt with a large amount of fines. Hendrik Põldoja also noted that the economic situation of the company is only one of the components of the imposition of a fine and, above all, the extent of the infringement is still considered to be large or small and its gravity. It will determine what a fine should be. The interesting thing is, according to this bill, that not all water bodies are water bodies. I asked how many wells there would be with a surface area of more than one hectare, but there would be no future law on water bodies. There is also a possibility that there is water, that the well is full of water, but according to this bill, this body of water no longer exists. Some people have people, but some people really don't have an analogy like that could be. The question was, How many water - filled wells of more than one hectare of water that are no longer water bodies? Karin Kroon noted that this figure was not known to the Ministry since not all water bodies were listed in the environmental register. Mr Vakra asked for clarification on how to name less than one hectare of water, such as a career depth. Then what is it? Karin Kroon replied that they were called facilities. So remember: these are facilities! And the Ministry doesn't have a complete record of them either. So we don't know one or the other. Harry Liiv, who knows everything about water, added that the draft seeks to achieve an optimal solution, which water bodies are covered by the law and which are considered to be a water body. It was such an interesting discussion. I asked how to name the Paunküla reservoir, which I intended to swim to that night, according to the principle of the bill. How do I tell my friends: do we meet at the reservoir or meet at the facility? Karin Kroon explained that the Paunküla reservoir is the name of this water body, while the type of water body is the lake. The environmental register states 'water storage' and 'water collection', the species being the pond. So I should say we meet at the lake. Next, I was curious that, since the sea areas are set here, what is the name of something? What, for example, is at the top of the Pakri Peninsula? What is it? I received the answer that under the bank there is coastal water under the bank from which, in the newer days, the car has gone straight down. So these bodies are found in coastal water, not in any other water. My colleague Meelis Mälberg asked for clarification of the terms 'public body of water' and 'public body of water'. There's a big difference. There are not many public bodies of water, but there are a large number of public bodies of water. Minister Kiisler noted that the public body of water is not in civil circulation, i.e. it cannot carry out purchase and sale transactions. Well, the Emajõgi can't buy or sell. But a public body of water therefore can, and there are very many. Hendrik Põldoja added that publicly used water is a private water body designated for public use and a separate long list was drawn up by government order. The public water bodies mentioned by law are state-owned. Mr Mälberg continued that if a natural disaster could lead to the public use of water in the affected area, could it be done in the event of a building fire? If the building goes on, it's not a natural disaster. Minister Kiisler pointed out that this amendment could be considered. So, ladies and gentlemen, we could consider what will happen in the event of a fire. I asked how other countries of the European Union have the same thing: what is a water body and what is not a water body. Minister Kiisler explained that we need to draw a line somewhere. Is a mud puddle a body of water or isn't it? As a biologist, I noted that, yes, a mud puddle has its own water regime, its own aquatic life, and I think it should be considered a water body, just like a number of other bodies of water, such as biological ponds, fish ponds, where fish are grown, and also ditches that control the water, or ponds following extraction, where people swim and which are smaller than one hectare. These aren't water bodies according to the current bill, just like the mud puddle. Harry Liiv explained that in some countries of the European Union, not all water bodies are considered by law as bodies of water. In Estonia, very small water bodies are also dealt with within the meaning of this Act. My colleague Terje Trei agreed with me that all water bodies could still remain water bodies, including mud puddles and fish ponds, as well as ditches and canals from the port to a few lakes. The law could regulate more specifically what is relevant to them, but the water body would not be designated as an object or installation, as the draft proposes. Harry Liiv said we could agree on that. So perhaps it should be suggested that, if there is a well in which the water is in, it is a body of water, not a structure or a building, and that it should be regulated, from which there have been some restrictions. Mr Vakra pointed out that the Commission would leave a long deadline for amendments so that improvements and improvements could be made. It's gonna be a big summer right now. In summary, it was decided by consensus to propose the first reading of the draft at today's session, to propose the completion of the first reading and to set the deadline of 1 August at 4 p.m. for the 643 amendments, i.e. more time than usual. And the consensual decision was that I would come here for you to report this "master of the desert," this new and long-prepared water law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-12_U87	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a first reading, the representatives of the political groups will have the floor. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 643. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 16 a.m. on 1 August. We'll meet here in this very hall tomorrow at 13:00. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 12.08 p.m.
