ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 16th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. No one wants to hand over any drafts or enquiries, so we'll go to the presence check. 65 members of the Riigikogu are present, 36 members are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U2	Let's go to today's item. We have an item on the agenda, an important national question 'Is the birth of the first child in danger? '. I will quickly introduce you to the procedure for this discussion. First of all, Siret Kotka-Repinski, chairman of the committee of concern, will present a presentation lasting up to 10 minutes. Mare Ainsaar, Senior Research Fellow of Sociology and Social Policy at the Institute of Social Sciences, University of Tartu, will next perform. His report lasts up to 20 minutes, questions and answers last up to 15 minutes. The next waitress is Dagmar Kutsar, Associate Professor of Social Policy at the Institute of Social Sciences of the University of Tartu. His report lasts up to 20 minutes, questions and answers last up to 15 minutes. The presentation by Taavi Tamkivi, the father of the Fathers Forum, who is on parental leave, lasts up to 15 minutes, and the questions and answers last up to 15 minutes. I tell you, for information, that a member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to the rapporteurs during the debate. After that, there are negotiations and all members of the Riigikogu and representatives of the political groups can take the floor. At the request of the Committee on Problems, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Siret Kotka-Repinski, Chair of the Demographic Crisis Resolution Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We are facing decisive choices today. For the last human development report, population scientists prepared models for forecasting the Estonian population until 2100. They clearly show that if the birth rate and emigration remain at the current level, the Estonian population will fall to less than 800,000 by the end of the 21st century. In order to avoid this, it is necessary that every woman give birth to at least two children in 20 to 30 years' time. So today we are faced with the choice of whether to make birth-enhancing policies a national priority and to stay or continue to do nothing and quietly disappear. This is, to sum up, the subject of today's nationally important debate. And you probably agree that if this choice is not of national importance, then what is it? How should the national mechanisms function to fulfil the constitutional task assigned to them to ensure the survival of the Estonian people, language and culture throughout the ages? How can people be influenced to have children? Clearly, we cannot force people to have children in 21st century Estonia. Another hypothetical option would be to offer people a reward. However, you probably agree with me that although parental benefit is necessary and reduces income losses during the first and a half years of the child's life, we cannot simply buy children. The third option, the persuasion of people, may also work for some individuals, but it is difficult to change society as a whole. If the birth rate now is 1.6 per woman, then on average, 2,3 children are wanted. This means that the Estonian state must create an environment for its people where they can have the two to three children they want and grow up calmly. Thus, the only way is to influence people's decision to have children and to raise them by changing the environment. In the past, the central power was more focused on the number of children, and therefore the contribution to the environment supporting the creation of a family and the raising of children has remained in the background. Not enough single parents, underprivileged and disabled families have also been noticed. At the same time, it is these families that may need most economic and spiritual support. It is therefore not enough to influence people's decision to have children, one or two measures or a social campaign. We need to consider a whole range of components that influence the decision to make a family. By choosing what is more important than these, we need to create a situation where it would be easier to make a decision to have children. Clearly, this influence also requires resources. At the end of 2017, the Demographic Crisis Problem Committee convened a working group of representatives of scientists, officials and interest groups to develop a long-term selection plan that would provide the basis for demographic change. This programme, called 'Principles of National Policy until 2035', which has now been supplemented by all political groups, is ready to be presented to the Riigikogu. This would be a long-term political agreement in order to define the objectives and lines of action to create an environment conducive to the acquisition and rearing of children. We have all the prerequisites for this, and Estonia may even reach the best countries in this area. But we will certainly not be among them if we do not systematically work in this direction and find the investments that will be invested in the creation of this environment. These fundamentals would ensure that population policy areas are reflected in all relevant development plans, which, as you know, will soon be updated. The main areas affecting the basics of population policy are childcare, support for future mothers and fathers, reconciliation of work and family life, regional development, and the living environment. The next presentations today will pay more attention to them. In addition, demographic policy sets its foundations in the context of other options that are not directly relevant to today's debate, but are very important, for example, in terms of ageing, migration and the well-being of people. Since the sceptics have expressed dissatisfaction that these fundamentals contain too many objectives, I would like to remind them how much environmental aspects we need to change in order to influence population processes as a whole. For example, since in the present world people have the freedom to move where they want, it is also necessary to influence those aspects that would make Estonians choose to live and return to their home country even if they leave for a short time. We must therefore give priority to a policy of multinationalism in order to keep in touch with those who have left their home country, and to empower people and their well-being here in Estonia, so that they choose to return, for example, at the moment when they have decided to have children. So I hope that everyone here will understand that without a systematic population policy, there is a chance that all population models will materialise to us, in fact with just as little probability as the lottery jackpot. I hope that this Riigikogu wishes to significantly increase this probability and that 'Principles of national policy until 2035' will be adopted during its membership. I wish you all a good reflection and debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U4	Thanks to the waitress! I say to Mr Helmes that if you have any questions for Mrs Repinski, please note that no questions can be asked to the first rapporteur in accordance with the rules of procedure agreed before. Please hold a chair at the Institute of Social Sciences and Social Policy of the University of Tartu, Senior Research Fellow Mare Ainsaare!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U5	Honourable Riigikogu! Okay, let's see if the tech works. Let's talk about children and parents today. We know that, with our demographic concern, we are not alone in Europe, but we have one very special feature, this is our small population. This means that, in addition to worrying about the growth of the population, we must also worry about the decline of the markets, i.e. schools, hospitals, services, transport, the efficiency of the economy. I pay tribute to the Parliament's Trouble Committee and the working group who have completed the document on the fundamentals of population policy. I think it's basically the right thing. What do I want to talk about today? Some of the problems and proposals that could perhaps be made specifically in the future. We hope that the technical problems can be resolved immediately, then we can also show some data. First of all, I'm talking about what parents would want. Children are undoubtedly related to their parents, and without their parents' will and advice, there will be no more children.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U6	Honourable waitress! Do we take the chairman's break so that the technical issues can be resolved? Oh, it's working? You're not? I'll take a ten-minute break from the manager. You can go there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U7	The ten-minute technical break taken by the manager is over. Let's proceed with Mrs. Mare's presentation on The Onlysaare. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U8	Dear Riigikogu, we will continue to solve the problem of the Estonian population. So what do we do? Demographically, we have the following options: birth rate, health, reduction of mortality, migration. My presentation today focuses primarily on the problems of the birth rate, but everything is of course necessary for the overall solution. Some things are also linked here, especially migration, health and birth rates. What do the people of Estonia want? It's a huge resource that they still want children. Now let's look at age and sex. You see men and women of different ages here. The total length of the column indicates the number of children desired and the actual number of children in the blue part. As expected, we'll see there's a difference. We see that at age the wishes are different, but perhaps a small sign of danger is that younger men and women who are shown in this figure are actually decreasing the number of children they want. This is still sufficient, this is over 2, which is sometimes considered as an important demographic boundary, but we have to deal very carefully with the resource we have had so far. However, on the other hand, this policy-making really simplifies, because we should simply fill the gap between this desire and the reality. As a reminder, there are some general trends that I'm sure you know. The total birth rate coefficient (i.e. the upper line) indicates the number of children per woman. This graph shows this multiplier from the 1990s to 2016. At first it was high, then it fell, in the 21st century there was a rise again, in 2011 the multiplier fell and in recent years the situation has gradually improved again. For Europe, this is a normal average. Our main problem is that it is not enough for our reproduction. The coefficient of recovery is this lower figure, which in a positive scenario would be 1, but we have this less than 1. This shows how many generations are regenerating other generations. It hasn't increased much for us. What is the greatest problem with our birth rate? From this diagram, you can see the number of births of children of different births. Here the 1990 standard has been adopted, and we are seeing the same trend in some ways. We see a decline in the 1990s. But now we should look at the first, second, third and fourth children separately. We all remember this, it's been said for a long time that the first children will be born, whether it's about love or not, but the problem is with the next kids. We can see that the number of third children fell drastically in the 1990s, the number of fourth children decreased, and even the number of other children decreased, the situation with the first children was relatively better. Let us now look at the 21st century, from 2010. We can see that comparatively better has been done for other and third children. The fourth and next children are still not popular in Estonian society. It may not be that way in the future. But the greatest danger is that the number of births of the first children has fallen to a relatively very low level. It is natural to think that this is partly due to the fact that we have just younger generations, fewer younger women, but I have checked it, and that explains a very small part of this decline. That means it's a real problem because the birth rate is a pyramid. To have a third and a fourth child, you need a first child to begin with, and you need a first child to have a second child. All the people who have the first child will not have you, all those who have the second child will not have the third. What's happening now is that the base of the pyramid is starting to fall away. Here are the absolute numbers of births in 2016. First and second children are born in the same order of magnitude, which in the long term almost certainly means that other, third and subsequent children will be born less after a while if nothing changes. So we are interested in having children in Estonia, and people want children. The question is, what does it depend on? Theories tell us that everything that happens outside the so-called small family affects it. We can call it the well-being of the families. Scientists often study fears and fears or why the desire to have children cannot be realized. One of the biggest paradoxes not only in Estonia but throughout the world is that while life is getting better, children become more expensive for parents and not only financially, but also in time and in terms of many other resources that young parents today consider important. What do earlier studies say about whether children can benefit parents? First of all, we know that the partnership itself is very beneficial to people, because it increases people's well-being. This is not always known for children. At different times, the results vary from country to country. Children can bring happiness to parents, but they can't. Our earlier studies show that parenting in itself is a selective thing; parents become more optimistic by nature. Economic difficulties are one of the most common causes of birth control across Europe. Studies also show that national policies have an impact on the end result. We did a new check with Estonian data in 2016. What do we see in simple observation? Indeed, people with children are happier in Estonia than people without children. It's a very good result, a great resource. There would be a big problem if it were the other way around. In Estonia, both men and women are happy. Once again, there are countries in the world where, for example, men and women are not happy or happy with only the first child, but not when the second child is born. We checked to see if the children were contributing to the well-being of the families. It's true. Estonia is a reasonable country for parents to live in. Let's look at a simple drawing of the well-being of families with children. Below are the numbers of children in the family: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 and more children. This blueprint shows how happy people are with their lives. Relatively speaking, families with two children are more satisfied than families without children. Families with three or four children have great variety, including all kinds of families. This is all actually very positive. Let's keep looking. What is the welfare of a parent? We basically find that parents are quite ordinary Estonian people. If we put all the traits into the models, we will see that the most important thing for them is economic coping. Believe it or not, for nearly ten years now, ordinary Estonians are most affected by their economic status even if they are not parents. Second comes health, then faith in the state (this is a very important message for the Riigikogu), next comes trust and social relations (whether there are many friends and acquaintances, or who can be contacted), and children and partnerships are also listed there, but the fifth is the fifth. These latter are important components, but for the well-being of the entire human being, they are also the first. Our interest today and here is to ask whether family policy affects well-being, because we believe that well-being affects the birth rate. Many earlier researches from the scientific landscape tell us that the answer is yes, it should affect. Let's look at Estonian family policy. The foundation of Estonian family policy is, in fact, child benefits; this is a measure whose impact is felt by most people and families. In this figure, you can see the ratio of the first child to the average salary. We all remember that economic issues are very close to the heart of the people of Estonia. We are seeing fluctuations here due to the adoption of laws or such silence in the context of economic growth. If we look at the most recent years, we will see that the Estonian state has achieved certain stability. This is a good thing in itself, but it is a measure or action that should not be stopped. In essence, this means almost an annual effort or action in this area, because now, as the welfare of the whole society or state grows and people's income and salaries increase, as we heard from the report of Statistics Estonia yesterday, but we are doing nothing in this area, this line begins to fall. Estonia's problem is then the first children, and with third children it was relatively better. Could it have anything to do with family policy? Indeed, we can see that in recent years the Estonian state has contributed more to families with a third child, which is actually very good, positive, and there is no way that it could be opposed. This striped line down here marks the support of the first and second child. So this was a little bit of a problem. So, we asked the parents directly about the impact of having children. We have a full list of factors that could influence this decision. We used the most recent studies on Estonia, such as the survey of Estonian men and women, and looked at men and women separately, because sometimes men and women are different. We see that men and women in Estonia think very alike. Not surprisingly, economic factors and work-related circumstances still affect children. The importance of economic factors may have been somewhat reduced in a long time series (we also have previous studies), but they are still almost the most important for parents. Of course, it says housing, childcare, Estonian society as a safe place to live, a more friendly attitude towards children and equality between men and women. Men and women don't differ much. These factors are ranked in order of priority, the percentage in brackets is how many men or women indicated that they were affected. The only thing that distinguishes men from women is perhaps an attitude toward working hours. More flexible working hours are more important for women than for men. In Estonia, children with different birth orders are a separate topic. Let's see that too. It says here the reasons for having children, the women on the left, the men on the right, and these columns show people with different numbers of children. In the first column, there are those who don't have children, but who want children. There are families with one child in the second column, people with two, three and four children are coming forward. Different reasons are indicated in different colours. Basically, the first thing you might notice is that families with fewer children seem to have more problems of all kinds. Let's take a closer look. First group: Green and yellow are basically different economic factors, they are a place of residence and economic support, which affect the way children are given. They are important to both men and women. If you look closely, you will see that those with fewer children are especially important. They are important to everyone, but the importance of these factors is slightly reduced as the number of children increases. The second large group is marked with blue. Basically, these are work-related reasons and their importance for the increase in the number of children is not so significantly reduced. What did we learn from this exercise? First of all, many factors affect the decision whether to have a child at the same time, but the most important factors remain the reasons for economic survival and work-related circumstances. People with different numbers of children differ somewhat in their problems. Those who do not yet have children but want them, and families with one child have more problems. That is what they think, at least, but their own opinion is crucial, because they are the ones who make the decision to have this child. We compared men and women. In fact, all these things were more important to women than to men. There has been talk about economic living, which is true, that if we look at poverty indicators, we can see that the risk of poverty is increasing with the number of children or at least has increased with the number of children so far, but this is also very important for the first and second children. The habitat is more of a youth problem. To sum it up. An Estonian person wants children. That's a very good starting point. The difference between wishes and reality is what needs to be addressed. After all, the Estonian state's family policy has been very reasonable in its design. We have covered more or less all the areas that can be dealt with, some things we are particularly proud of, like parental benefits. However, Estonia's main problem seems to be the amount of funding that we can guarantee. Another problem is that family policy really needs to be consistent. Obviously, from these long graphs, we can see that there are periods when there is more bet, there is a rise, and then there will be a period when there is a silence on the side of politics, which for families actually means a drop in state support. Economic coping is important for Estonian parents. In conclusion, if we want to increase the birth rate, there are many factors, not only the economy, but also childcare, work and residence. Parents often feel that these conditions need to be met at the same time. I started with the question of what is needed for the well-being of parents. We believe that young generations think much about their own well-being, but, of course, all other components must not be forgotten; they are health, faith in the state and social relations. Thank you very much. And thanks also to the Riigikogu and the Trouble Committee for dealing with these issues, because I think it is important for the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U9	Thank you, Mrs. Ainsaar, for your presentation. You have questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U10	Thank you. Thank you for your good presentation. But there's no way I can agree with your central problem, like our greatest concern is the reduction in the first child. It's leading us on the wrong trail in two ways. Firstly, we all know what this reason is: the cohort of women of this age is significantly smaller, depending on the vintage, one third or 10% less, compared to ten years ago. So the number of births should be smaller. Secondly, if we look at who or what's going to help us get a plus, it's clear that the first kid won't get there. We should still focus precisely on the third or fourth child. After all, you agree with me that if we have reduced the number of women of first age, the number of women who could have second and third children will soon decrease. But now there's this big generation born in the 1980s at the end of childbirth. We should focus on the third and fourth children. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U11	Thanks for the question! Yes and no. I don't know if you noticed that the diagram that was here to look at was only about the number of children, but I checked it and compared it with the women's cohorts. Indeed, it is logical to believe that as the population decreases, the number of women of childbearing age, why not men, has also decreased. But by doing other calculations, it is evident that fewer children are born for this cohort. It is true that for years demographers have been saying that the key lies in third and subsequent children, provided that the first and other children are born anyway. It changes at the moment when these first or other children are no longer born because it is such a pyramid. Third children cannot be born unless they are first and others. This is a new thing for Estonia. I also looked at other countries that maybe this is some general trend. I dare say now that this is more Estonia's peculiarity, which may need to be dealt with more. It's actually a very dangerous trend.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U12	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am concerned about the fact that we are talking precisely about the population in all these debates on demographic and demographic issues. We're not talking about having ethnic groups anymore. We are not talking about Estonia as a nation state and we should be concerned about the increase in the number of Estonians and the percentage of Estonians in the population. We are talking about the population and, of course, it has also been introduced that the population must grow as a result of migration. Don't you think that's the way I say it? just an expression of liberal economic thinking, not an expression of thinking concerned about national statehood?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U14	Thank you very much for a very constructive question. Indeed, we have many options for existence. As we have seen at first, these are birth rates, life expectancy and migration. You are undoubtedly familiar with the population pyramid and trend in Estonia. We are making an effort to have a higher birth rate, but today, and probably also in the coming years, even if the birth rate slightly increases, we cannot even guarantee the average level we have. That is why I personally believe that it is reasonable to think about immigration in Estonia, how to deliver it in the most sensible way, because there are reasonable and less sensible ways to deal with it too. All issues need to be addressed. Speaking of birth, I believe that the birth rate is important for all ethnic groups, and then there will be questions about integration, how we will put all these people here to work friendlyly for the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U15	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U16	Thank you very much for your very interesting presentation. You said that faith in the country is also important for parents when they have a child. I'm very much of that faith, too. How do you feel about the faith of parents in a country in which a child grows with one or another special needs is as strong as the faith of parents of healthy children in the country? Does our family policy, in your opinion, provide sufficient support for families with a child with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U17	As we all know, we have problems with this issue. We know from research that the experience of people, or whether they believe that they have a country to hope for help, whatever child they should have in their family, affects their decision. We are preparing a new birth study right now. We have a completely new topic in Estonia, as childbirth has also shifted to an older age group. Normally, we have not had to ask about the problem of what happens when, for example, a child with special needs is born, but initial studies have shown that this is a very important concern for many women. Studies in the past do not show this, but now women insisted that this issue be there. Indeed, it does not affect only when such a child already exists in the family, but today, when children are born at 30+, people who have no children think of it as a real opportunity and want to make sure that their lives can go on, whatever child they have. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U18	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U19	Good manager! Good waitress! Yasser Arafat once said that his greatest weapon was the womb of an Arab woman. But in Estonia, it looks like we've been disarmed. You can read here that the younger the company gets, the smaller the number of children you want. However, there is nothing special here, neither in Estonia nor in the rest of the developed countries. What, for example, would you do as a top specialist in this field if we gave you full power, either as Minister of Social Affairs or as someone else? What can really be done to put this most powerful weapon of the Estonian people back into action?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U20	The answer is simple. With the desired number of children, we actually have things more or less in order, and as this strategy paper says, the difference must be dealt with. If we look at Estonian family policy, once again, we will see that many components exist. We should now guarantee that they function reasonably in economic terms. We know that we have problems with some support, we have problems with kindergartens regionally, not everywhere. We also know that the state is dealing with these issues. All of them should, I think, just keep going. My conclusion is that in recent years the Estonian state has done quite well. In some respects, it also takes time to reduce parents'fears. These studies are a few years ago. We do not know the results of 2017 and in 2018, right now, we are doing one survey. I am convinced that what the country is doing really affects people, because we have seen it from the past. These activities should continue, the directions are right, and these activities should not be forgotten. One of the dangers I see is that this demographic policy document has been drawn up until 2035. I sincerely hope that the next time these issues are discussed, it will not be in 2035 but in the past. I hope that every year the state of Estonia will be reviewed and thought about what to do. There is basically a race in Europe that can contribute more to families, birth rates and children. I will bring out two things that are being done in Europe. It is very strongly thought of how to provide day care for very small children (0 to 2 years of age). In Estonia, along with the emergence of parental benefit, which has been very well received, the limit at which the kindergarten place should exist has gradually shifted upwards all the time. There is a reverse trend in Europe, they want parents to have a fortress. Another thing you could think about in Estonia, and what is very simple, doesn't even take money, is that child benefits could be called child money. Sometimes it's easier to do politics like this. I myself am not a proponent of parental or civil pay, but I am quite convinced that children as citizens of the country need the same equal treatment or their own money. I don't think that's what people of working age should get, but it could be children and maybe older people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U21	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U22	Thank you for a very interesting presentation. I want to ask you a question. When you spoke about economic conditions, it turned out very clearly from your presentation that those measures that ensure that the family does not fall into poverty after the birth of the child must be universal and, let us say, work in any case. But my question concerns part-time work. In many countries, including most Member States of the European Union, part-time work is very common, but in Estonia it is only around 7% and for some reason employers do not want to use it either. The lack of flexible forms of working time and part-time employment is certainly one of the factors that hinders the birth of children. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U23	As we have seen, part-time work was an important issue for women. It is true that it is used and offered little in Estonia. Possibly there should be a chance. I am not quite sure whether, at national level, it should be promoted too much or that women should necessarily be assigned part-time to work, because there are far-reaching effects, but there could be such an opportunity in itself. I think that the changes in parental benefit payments that have been made last year or this year, I think this process is still going on, in fact, allow more flexibility and that is very good. One comment on poverty. We often measure the economic livelihood of families according to the poverty criterion. It is also a kind of trap, because I believe that no family planning the birth of a child will be happy to see how nice we are now out of poverty. When they talk about economic coping, they think about it as if, even after having a child, they would have their, say, economic functionality, economic opportunities about what they used to be, so they wouldn't have to sacrifice too much. It has been repeatedly measured in Estonia. This danger is certainly not that the state or local authorities can cover all the costs of raising a child; parents always have a very large share. But the question is, yes, that this sacrifice or decline may not be too great, so that it will encourage the next and the next children.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U24	Thank you, dear waitress. Your answer time is up. Thank you for your presentation. We ask for a speech chair at the University of Tartu Institute of Social Sciences for Social Policy Docent Dagmar Kutsari.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U25	Honourable Riigikogu! The 2013 Estonian Human Development Report states that a critical assessment of the "good" of today's life has spread among the population, while optimistic about the future. I believe that this argument is still valid at this time. In essence, this means that hopes for the future are placed on children as the next generation of adults. However, we are building the future today and the building blocks are the same children today. For the future building to be good and durable, it is necessary that the building material is of high quality, i.e. that children's well-being and development are guaranteed today. Children receive both direct and indirect influence from different levels of society's functioning and take these influences into their adulthood. The child is affected by the family he has been born into, the place in which he lives, the professionalism of specialists who come into contact with him, and finally the political priorities and solutions of the country. Children are also unequal in a socio-economically unequal society. Their chances of living a good life and developing their talents depend on many factors that are not directly dependent on children themselves. Between them, they regenerate the inequality of future society and future difficulties in coping. The support of society depends on the child's ability to get out of the network of unequal opportunities. Children are also expected to be unequal in terms of personal resources and development potential, i.e. their need for help varies from pattern to pattern. In addition, like an adult at some point, any child may suddenly get into trouble and need urgent and skilled intervention. Then help should be quickly available, highly skilled, and supportive and restorative of the child's well-being. There are also many situations where immediate intervention is needed, not by a child, but rather by a close environment in which he or she can cope. Policy makers and legislators in Estonia are faced with complex choices. In a situation of limited resources, firstly, to meet the needs of an ageing society, i.e. to support births in order for the state to survive; secondly, to try to help the whole family and thereby prevent the re-production of social inequalities, by means of family benefits and services; or thirdly, to try to support the child by helping it out of an inequities re-creating circle, by means of measures aimed directly at children? In addition, policy makers may wonder whether it would be more appropriate to try to reduce negative manifestations and the risks that have already been expressed or to keep a positive focus on children's well-being, with emphasis on supporting good childhood and child development. This is a challenge for politicians. Against the background of the problems of an ageing society, it should not be forgotten that the welfare of children and their welfare must be cared for. Estonia acceded to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1991, committing itself to the systematic development of children's rights and well-being. Unfortunately, if national legislation is largely compatible with the Convention, its practical implementation is not always the case. This has also been highlighted by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child in its recommendations in January 2017. How, though, do children themselves assess the realization of their rights? For this purpose, we will receive data from an international study on children's well-being, in which children between the ages of 8, 10 and 12 participated with a representative sample from all over Estonia. The research was supported by the Estonian Research Council. We put forward a series of claims on these rights to children aged 12 years and asked them how much these rights have come true in their lives. The study revealed that the right to live with caring and loving parents and the right to develop their abilities and talents were best realized. The vast majority of children responded. Rather, up to 4% of children have not realised these rights. This is not a high percentage, but there are quite a few children behind each percentage who deserve serious attention. The study also showed that the least children estimate that their right to assistance from specialists in the event of concerns has materialised, and that even if they have done something wrong, they would be treated fairly. Thus, the focus of the Committee on the Rights of the Child on the practical applicability of legislation and the critical assessment of children's access to assistance are consistent. How good do Estonian children appreciate their lives compared to children from other countries? The last round of data collections of an international study on child welfare was supported by the Jacobs Foundation and was collected in 2013. Eighteen countries from four continents participated in the study. The study revealed that three quarters of Estonian children aged 8 years and just over 10 to 12 years of age fully agreed with the statement that they have a good life in Estonia, which means that their self-esteem for well-being is high. The study also showed that the proportion of children who value their lives very well is decreasing as age rises in most countries, including Estonia. International benchmarking is important in many ways. A cross-country comparison of children's well-being assessments shows that children's assessments are positioning against other countries and may be an alarm signal that something needs to be done. From the figure, we can see that if the 8-year-olds are above the average of the countries in their well-being assessment, the 10-year-olds are considerably more critical and fall even at the end of the tail. So, compared to the children of Ethiopia and South Korea, there are a little more children in our country who, at the age of 10 to 12, say that they have a very good life. What, then, is important in a child's life? Here's a drawing of a child that answers a question that matters in his life. We have collected quite a number of such child welfare maps, and this has been done in other countries. The overall result is that source of well-being #1 is for the child himself: his talents, his success, his activities of interest, etc. It is also important to bear this in mind when developing aid measures, as the child is potentially able, with its inherent activity and purpose, to overcome the situation and incompetence of inequality. In addition to himself, the child's family is important. As you can see from the drawing, there are two parents in this family. Many children also drew one or more siblings. In addition to two parents, the family member of this child is his pet dog. Other studies of children have shown that it may not be the child with whom he or she lives that comes first, but the relationship between family members. The family members of a child are those in whom the child feels that they care about him or her and are available to him or her if necessary, even if they do not live with the child, such as a parent who lives away from the child. The child needs both parents, but he can successfully cope with more than two parents if the family, as a modern network, is able to resolve their differences and everyone is friendly with each other. The third important source of well-being for a child is the school where he spends much of his day. The school as a source of well-being is represented in this figure with good grades, which fits very well with the desire of adults to succeed in school. School success is a good building block for the future society. The fourth source of well - being is friends who have even been identified by some children as family members on their family card. The child's well-being is influenced by a number of individual and structural factors that are important for the development of social support. The child has personal resources, such as good physical and mental health, broad interests, and a desire to learn. At the same time, his interests may be frustrated if there are no opportunities, his mental health may be damaged as a result of bad treatment, and his desire to learn may be lost. Recently, the mental health of people, including children, has come to the Estonian public debate. Many teachers have experienced that the child is coming to the first class with anxiety or behavioral disorders. The prevalence of mental and behavioural disorders among children is increasing. According to the children, however, the aid is not sufficiently available in case of concern. There were over 9,000 children with special needs in Estonia in 2014, more than half of whom were with deep or severe disabilities. Their need for assistance is broad spectrum and the availability and availability of aid is not sufficient. For example, there is a lack of specialised teachers and child supporters in an inclusive school, and the mental health competence of specialists working in a school with children remains low. The family is the primary living environment for the child. The family is best for the child if it meets the needs of the child, i.e. it is caring, provides adequate protection and development opportunities for the child. A good family has also been valued as such in society, i.e. it meets society's normative expectations. The following three aspects of the functioning of the family are important for the well-being of the child. First, what is a family in general: the health of family members, the level of education and the relationship between them. Secondly, it is important that the family members of the child are coherent with society, i.e. what is the level of socio-economic livelihood of the family. According to the children's welfare survey, 5% of 12-year-olds responded that only food, tax and essential purchases would be available in their families, and nearly 0.5% replied that their families had little money even for food. According to the same study, about one fifth of children have been exposed to parental labour migration, i.e. one parent is working or both parents work in another country, and children live here either with relatives or friends or on their own. A third important factor in the well - being of the child is how parents cope as parents. This concerns both general life skills and the ability to be a parent. There are parents who, for various reasons, find it difficult to cope with parenthood. For example, more than 6,000 children without parental care and needing help were on account in local governments between 2011 and 2015. This development line has grown. Parental failure must be viewed with extreme seriousness and great expertise. It is important to remember that removing a child from the family is difficult for the child. This is confirmed, for example, by the fact that a deterioration in children's mental health has been observed after separation from the family. In one of its decisions on civil matters, the Supreme Court has expressed the view that the removal of the right to personal care from the parent due to neglect of the child and, if for any reason the parent is unable to take care of the child without endangering him, is an extreme measure. It must be implemented only if it is evident that the supporting measures cannot eliminate the risk to the child's well-being. It follows from the foregoing that it is just as important as punishing an erratic parent by withdrawing custody, to study the story of that parent, to try to understand the causes of incompetence, and to try to alleviate his or her failure. Often, these reasons are due to the insecurity of the parent's own childhood and the wrong choices that followed. With regard to the family, I will mention the subject of the so-called internationalisation of childhood, referring to the increase in the number of international legal aid applications in recent years, while at the same time the lack of parental awareness of international law. The main task of the school is education and education. Recently, we have also started to talk more and more about school as an environment for the child's well-being. The school does not operate separately from the rest of society, and the child does not come to the school every day as a clean slate, but carries other environments, such as the effects of his or her home. It should be noted that the school's tasks are expanding into both the health and social spheres. In school, the teacher is often the witness of the child's need for help and distress and the child's concern is the first listener. Again, I refer to the 12-year-old children's responses mentioned in the children's well-being study. About two thirds of the children found that teachers cared about them and could share their concerns with the teacher. At the same time, both teachers and students complain that the availability of qualified assistance is not sufficient, as support staff are scarce if the assistance is far from what is needed. Both children and teachers are critical of the school. Teachers experience little value in society and little satisfaction with their work. This was demonstrated by an international study of teachers and school leaders in TALIS. Decreased school liking for children 2. Up to class, i.e. four years of school, Estonia is the largest in comparison with other countries. Surprisingly, if early school leavers are more often boys, school liking among girls in Estonia and in some other countries will decrease much faster. Thus, the problems associated with girls' school are rather more hidden. In conclusion, however, I believe that the school has the potential to be a source of well-being for both students and their teachers. More effort may have to be made in this direction. The guarantee of the child's fundamental social rights in different regions of the country varies by municipality. There are large differences in the provision of services and in the payment of grants across Estonia, lack of support specialists, lack of high-level specialists. For example, more than half of children live in municipalities where there are not or not enough children's protection workers with separate social work education. Despite the decrease in the number of children, the workload of child protection and social workers has increased, which is why prevention in particular suffers and more action is being taken to tackle fire-fighting, or problem-solving, when it has already arisen. The organisation, practices and working methods of child protection work vary between municipalities and depend primarily on the type of municipality, i.e. whether it is an important socio-economic influence and a small municipality around the regional centre or on the outskirts of the region. It is very important that administrative reform and the merger of rural municipalities do not leave children as vulnerable target groups between reform wheels, but that local governments become more able to deal with a broad range of issues of child welfare. The Committee on the Rights of the Child has stated in its recommendations for 2017 that municipal budgets should provide the means for the systematic development of the rights and well-being of the child not only in the annual but also in the long term. What is the main message of my presentation? There's exactly two of them. First of all, today's children will depend on what future society will be like. Secondly, the well-being of children today is one of the indicators of today's society's health. The child's well-being as a policy issue needs to be approached in a complex way, as the child's well-being is formed in the context of different levels of social functioning. Children's well-being work, which is what I would call child welfare work in a broader sense, requires professionals working with children in different fields to have a broad range of skills and knowledge and to constantly improve and learn. Society is becoming increasingly complex and there is an increasing need for cross-sectoral cooperation; aid needs to be brought closer to those in need. There is also an increasing need for outstanding academic...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U26	Dear waitress, I apologize once! Your time is up. Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U27	One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U28	One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U29	... specialists with social work education who notice the social problems of society in the bud are analytical and are able to assist people of any age and system in a novel situation, are competent to work with children and to deal with their immediate environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U30	Thank you. You have questions too. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U31	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for a very meaningful presentation. Thank you very much for your very meaningful presentation to the previous speaker. But here's the question. Everything you said requires children to come and we can prevent these problems. But in order for children to come, need mothers, need obstetrics, need maternity departments, need midwives, ladies' doctors and pediatricians. How do you feel about closing the maternity departments in the outskirts of Estonia, Valga, Põlva, Haapsalu, etc., and taking away people's sense of security when they give birth to children, which is called into question a little bit? Then people, like, aren't planning this kind of thing, wondering what I have to risk taking to see if all the social stuff you're talking about maybe happens during childbirth. How do you feel about closing the maternity units in small rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U32	I reply by saying that, in the case of both children and adults, a leading factor in decision-making is the sense of security, which you have mentioned. I think that's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U33	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have made many international comparisons here about how our children are doing, about welfare, etc. Inevitably, the Estonian people compare themselves with others who compare themselves with Finnish families, someone working half of the family in England, and they compare the situation there. Is there a country in Europe or beyond from which we should take the template? For example, in the case of maternity pay, we have set an example. But look at this whole picture a little bit more generally. Who's done well? Where has the birth rate increased, and men and women have found each other and have confidence in life? Are there any examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U35	I have to admit, I'm a little incompetent because I'm not very home to demographic issues. My message I brought here was rather that we listen to children. This is a very new approach. So far, we may have thought too often that we ourselves know what is right. You could look at countries where children do well and where they value their own well - being. We could see what is happening in these countries, what is different there, and what we can take over from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U36	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U37	Thank you. Thank you very much for your very interesting presentation. You said that one of the biggest concerns of Estonian children is that they do not get enough help from the specialist in case of concern, and the other way around, as you mentioned, the number of children with mental and behavioural disorders has increased 3.4 times compared to 2010. I wonder if Estonia's regional coverage came out of this study. Will children get more of these services in some regions than in others? We know that this is probably the case, but it would be interesting to know whether it has also been scientifically proven that, for example, in Valgamaa or Ida-Virumaa, this availability is significantly lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U38	We have not gone directly to the municipal level, but other analyses have indeed shown this. I also mentioned here that the inequality of local governments is quite high. This means that it also requires influence on the well-being of the child, on the possibilities for dealing with his or her concerns, etc. Directly, yes, we have not made comparisons by region. But there really is a problem between the periphery and the center. The centre has more resources and the periphery can be deprived of them, and if children live there, they are in an unequal position compared to children living in the centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U39	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U40	Good manager! Good waitress! You claim that Colombian children have a very good life, but the Estonians and Ethiopians have a worse life. At the same time, it is known that there are children in Ethiopia and Colombia who really do not have or have very little to eat, but in this country and in that country there are many more children than we do. Open up some of that background. Kids think life is good, and we're kind of reaching for it, but yet things are different. Ethiopia and Colombia are much more like each other in terms of demographic behaviour than Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U41	Yeah, it's such a new science course that there's not much to know yet. Children's and adults' thinking belongs to different generations, and our childhood, or mine, or someone else's, passed in a very different context when the childhood of today's children passes here in Estonia. Colombian children's assessments are in their context, the Ethiopian children's assessments in their context. If the children of Romania seemed to be the happiest in all this company in terms of their estimates, then, for example, a German journalist could not accept it in any way, because how can it be, Romania is such a poor country, and Germany should be better. Here, it is also important to carry out qualitative research and to look at what they mean by well-being. It could be different. So they have a reason to be in the position that's in this graph, but we can't explain it all very accurately right now and give final answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U42	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U43	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Liina Kersna's comment on Ida-Virumaa and Valgamaa was inappropriate because the community factor works very well there and the unfinished work of the state and local government is done by the community. But I wanted to ask you this way. How do you assess and consider it right or wrong to integrate children with special educational needs into a regular school? You suggested earlier that the most important thing is a sense of security that I absolutely agree with. How do you assess the integration of children with behavioral disorders and mental disorders or Aspergers and Downe into regular school in the event of a lack of support service? Do you have any examples of this in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U44	This question is very complex, it is very difficult to answer because it has many ends. One end is when we look at it from the point of view of this child, a child with special needs. If he can study in a regular school, he will have a lot more opportunity to develop in this environment than he would have so-called children of the same kind. But here comes the theme of how other children feel about it and how teachers do it. Support specialists, assistant teachers or support teachers must first be sufficient and, secondly, they must be able to regulate this situation in some way. So maybe this implementation has been a little premature, or you need to start looking at it more complexly as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U45	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U46	Thank you. Thanks for the presentation. I thought about it when I listened to you that studies show, let's say, the average child in Estonia. We are talking about what is happening in Romania or other countries, but a third of Estonian families speak Russian. I wonder if there is any difference between Estonian and Russian children in these answers or studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U47	I might comment on this question a little bit on the other hand. When we collected data last time, in 2013, it was very difficult for us to get into Russian-language schools. Schools were a little anxious when we asked the children to answer their forms. I don't know why, either because they were afraid the results would be worse, or for other reasons. In 2017, when we started back together, the Russian schools suddenly came along very enthusiastically, they were very, very cooperative, and we got together a pretty good sample. This means that there has probably been some kind of change in the Russian schools themselves, and it seems to me that in a good way. Now the children themselves. In the case of children, there may not be such differences in estimates, because if the school environment is good, if the home environment is good, these are the basic determinants according to which the child assesses his or her well-being. This may be the case in the Russian family, in the Estonian and Russian mixed family as well as in the Estonian family or in both Estonian and Russian schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U48	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, You stressed the importance of the family and confirmed that the family is the best for the child if it is valued in society. The Constitution says that the family is protected by the state, but it has not defined what the family is. Do you consider it necessary to establish in our laws that marriage is a union between a man and a woman? This would certainly add to the sense of security, the lack of which is one of the most important aspects when we talk about a low birth rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U50	I would rather say that a marriage certificate may give you a sense of security for a while, yes, because getting out of marriage requires certain procedures, waiting, etc. But in terms of how people deal with each other and how they communicate with each other, it shouldn't be like there's a difference. With regard to putting such a clause in the Constitution, I would be somewhat doubtful.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U51	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your interesting presentation. The previous waitress stressed that we did not have a problem with the children we wanted. Is our society ready to talk about unwanted children and how unwanted children can become full members of society?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U53	I think there are significantly fewer unwanted children born these days. I have no record of how many of them are being born. If a future mother or already a mother is pregnant and the child is somehow a surprise to her, her own unwillingness will struggle with the fact that children are highly valued in society, and she will probably adapt to the value of society. A child is of value, indeed, he is at all one of the greatest values in our society. It's been like this ever since. But how does he manage as a parent? A child's parent may also not be a good parent. It's a completely different subject. She may want to be a good parent, but she can't. He may mistreat a child because, for example, he was treated like this in his day. But that's a whole other story.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you very much for the presentation and the material. I was pleased to see the slide on this subject, which you also spoke about: the capacity of municipalities to cope and support both children and families with children. You have pointed out that, despite the growing number of children, child protection and social workers have an increasing number of jobs, and we are undergoing an "administrative reform" and have an impact. Why, then, do we have more and more of these problems? At the same time, we may not really recognize them. What can I do here? Do you have any good advice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U55	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U56	It's pretty much on my final slide, which I explained in a very hurry. The principle is that if society gets more complicated, we have very rapid development in these days, then living in society becomes more difficult and more likely to face everyday living problems, which are also passed on to children. That is why I emphasised very much in my report that aid must exist, that we need to think more about the support structure. Not only does it help that there is a child protection worker as such, but that he must have a very good academic education, particularly with a very good background in academic social work education. People with social work education are increasingly needed when society becomes more complex, as the relationship between different spheres of society becomes more complex.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U57	Madam Kutsar, thank you for your presentation and for answering your questions. I would like to invite Mr Taavi Tamkivi, the leader of the Fathers Forum and, at the same time, the father on parental leave. I'll take the manager's break again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U58	I believe we're all ready to proceed. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U59	Hello, all state fathers and state mothers who are gathered here and who are watching us! I am Taavi Tamkivi, and I am pleased that you have invited me here to discuss, first and foremost, my experience of how I am trying to solve the population crisis in my example, what experience I have experienced as a father at home on parental pay, and what thoughts I have had when thinking about this problem. That is why I am very much speaking to you in the light of my example and experience. First of all, me. I am a child-rich family father: I have four children between the ages of one and ten. I live in the farm of my husband and children in Kõrvemaa, between the forests of Kõrvemaa, where we grow bees and where sheep, wolves, and other living things run around. This is a very romantic place to be. From education I am a mathematician, a statistician, and 15 years of study in Tartu. I have implemented a data mine in several of Estonia's largest companies and gained experience in reading information and solving problems from the data, which I share with you today. First of all, I was very surprised, of course, that I was invited here. In fact, I have seen that in order to have children, my husband, Kaisa, has worked much harder than I have, and in spite of my efforts, four times more. I have been at home with my fourth child for a year now, with the word 'home' being quoted, as the status of my father gives you the opportunity to move around, meet friends, travel and deal with exciting things that you normally cannot do when you're on the job, but in the case of three older children, my husband was at home and took the full burden. Some of the key points why I have found that the fact that we can take paid parental leave in the country for the first 18 months is a very cool and powerful thing. It is precisely because this leave can be taken in a flexible way: each family can decide for itself whether we want the husband to take 18 months or I will take 18 months, or whether we divide it in half. Many colleagues from England, Germany, Italy, and everywhere else fall down every time they hear how awesome this is for our first 18 months of support for families. It always makes them very jealous, and it makes me very happy that I have such home country support. Some of the key points that I have discovered are that the role of my father makes me myself, and I hope that children will also be richer. The time for purely focusing on children is greater for me. I can watch the kids now. I didn't notice a lot of things before. For example, I note that an older son finishes primary school, the middle son learns to read, the youngest son learns to ride a bike, and the smallest daughter learns to walk. The moments in life that are still to be remembered in 10 to 20 years' time, and not just to watch pictures, have arisen much more. After I cook the mash in the morning, send the rest of the family to school, day-care centre and work, I will take my little daughter and we will either go camping in Kõrvemaa or visit our friends in Tartu. Sometimes we take longer vacations. This is, in a sense, an academic freedom that I recently experienced at the university, and which is actually a very good opportunity for every fully-viable worker to take a moment off during his career and deal with other things. This is the second point of reference that I have discovered, this is an extremely restorative vacation from intensive office work or intense wage work. Although the word 'parental leave' is also used, this is certainly not a holiday. Those who have experienced it will realize that it is a rather different kind of stressful job, but it is certainly a vacation from office work. At the same time, it is time for both men and women to set new goals: it is possible to read, write, meet new people, take new business issues. It's a tremendously rich break and a timeout that we've been given. And in the course of this, as a mathematician and data scientist, I have had time to think a little bit more about the problems facing our country and our people, and that is why I am very pleased to be able to take the floor here today. I'm sharing some of the thoughts I've found by looking at the data. The population crisis that has already been mentioned a few times today is what I call a population swing that is out of balance or out of place. We have completed the birth rate of 1.8 children per woman: every woman who finally lives old has 1.8 children at present, but there should be 2.1 children to balance society. So the numbers are sad, but looking behind them, I dare, in the light of my experience, to opt a little bit for the previous speakers today: the problem of having the first child is not as big as it may seem. In Estonia, we have better stories of childlessness than on average in Europe, with a lower share of childlessness: if there are 13% of children in Estonia, then there are 15% in Europe. We're up there. The birth rate of other children is pretty good. As you can see from this schedule, in fact 38%, almost 40% of families are two-child families. When I think about it as a statistician and a probability theorist, every normal biological population is a normal distribution, which means a bilateral bell curve. But in our case, I see that we have a sudden fall after having another child. Perhaps we have some obstacles, barriers that prevent two - child families from having more children. According to the same studies you heard today, parents want to have more children: two children are minimum, they want to have three or four children. Dreams are bigger, there aren't so many children in practice. This leads me to think that we have two strong barriers that prevent families from growing. I want to talk about these barriers and possible solutions, to which people in this Chamber could also contribute very successfully. What are these solutions? Of course, it is the introduction of people from outside that would increase our population numerically and certainly help our economy if we were able to attract top specialists here. I will give an example of the same IT sector and technology companies. If I need top programmers, top analysts or top product managers, unfortunately there are few people in Estonia, it would be good to bring such people in. The second solution is our famous e-residency programme, 10 million e-Estonians. Again, it sounds numerically beautiful and hopefully makes a proper contribution to the economy, as well as to our pensions. And the third thing to focus on is the removal of the barriers I was talking about. These barriers prevent our families from having additional children. All these three methods are necessary, one does not rule out the other, but of course we are focusing on this third one today. What are these measures? How can we balance the population swing, perhaps reaching this normal, balanced 2.1 child per woman? For fathers, these calculations are a little different, but roughly speaking, there should be a little more than two children in each family on average. And in order to focus precisely on this target group, the state has a limited resource and we are not in a position to share support money for all, we are addressing our message very clearly: we are helping the largest target group that can receive the most support in terms of population growth. As I mentioned, 60% of two-child mothers, according to the studies, want to have a third and a fourth child, but only 30% will. These obstacles, which we see, are broadly divided into two parts: economic and cultural barriers. It has already come to pass that single and two-child families do not have a very serious economic downturn, but since the third child, the family's economic well-being, coping or coping will be suffering. As a country, we must aim to remove the risk that when a family has a third child, its ability to manage economically falls. We can work to eliminate this risk. The sums of money are not very large, because, fortunately or unfortunately, we have very few families with three children, which means that every euro that we place there does not require a very large wallet. Just a few examples. This same EUR 300 child allowance is a very good initiative. I was able to lease myself a bigger bus to carry children when I had a third child. This EUR 300 per month is very practical, because leasing is about the same size. But when I, or someone else, have a fourth child, you need to rent a bigger apartment, etc. At present, this supplement is not applicable to the following third child: Nor is it linked to inflation, or if we keep it at EUR 300, it will be candy money for children in ten years' time. Second, the kindergarten fee. These are simple but very vivid examples because they affect my wallet and the wallets of all other parents with many children. I've counted on paying around 10,000 euros in ten years for kindergarten places. Four children spend 15 years in kindergarten and I need to take 10,000 euros from somewhere. At the same time, they can go to school and university for free. Again, very simple: if we cannot pay for all children's kindergarten places, we will pay for third-four children's day care places. The following example: the child's child home care allowance is provided until the child's third year of life. I'll be a happy home father for the first 18 months, but then I'll run out of support. I have a choice whether to send a child to a meal that already sounds very terrible in name, my wife stays at home, which means that the family's income is falling, or I stay at home and the family's income is about to fall. Perhaps the same economic factor is slowing down children. Parents who raise children themselves at home may not have to receive support for raising one child, but you could already get support for two children. It does not, of course, have to be a full salary. But if I send my child to eat, the manger will receive support from the state. Why can't I get it straight? The whole tax package is very simply under the control of this hall. When I look at my tax return and my tax refund, I find that the maximum amount of money to be recovered from the training costs has been set. I don't even know what that amount is, but it's not about the number of children. When I raise one child, I have quite a small training cost. If I raise four kids, I'll multiply it by four, plus I'd like to study myself, and a woman would like to study too. Again, the tax deduction on training costs should be linked to the number of children that would help remove these economic barriers. A good example of Finland: exemption for the care provider of a sick child. This means that if I'm a working person, my child is not 18 months old, but five, six or eight years old, and I need a babysitter home so that I can go somewhere on a business trip, then I will not be charged with the salary or remuneration of this babysitter. The state provides tax relief so that one person can work and another can help so that children's diseases are not an inevitable blow to workers and their careers. I have enjoyed being home for a year and a half at this age, but then I want to bet on the Estonian economy again with a hundred or a hundred twenty, which I will find very difficult to do in the coming autumn and winter. The other half of the boundaries I'm talking about are cultural. This may sound a little soft, but we need to get an understanding of our own and other people's thoughts that a normal and strong Estonian family is one with three to five children. I don't know where the two kids and the Mustamäe apartment came from. In fact, I suspect that I know where this thought has come from in Soviet times. But when I look at the generations of my grandparents, then it was perfectly natural that there were three, four, or five children in the family. It was not just about agriculture; it was also about the cultural attitude that there are many children in a good family. So it's also stuck in people's minds, which, once again, slows down the chances of having children. When I look at my friends and acquaintances who have two children in their family, they feel pretty good: two mandatory squats are done and society is tolerating it, it's okay. Let's get some more small things, like books. When I read night stories to the kids, it's about the Käru-Kaar who's a lonely kid with a sick grandmother and a single mother. Actually, it's a very interesting reading, but the kid gets the idea that one kid is okay. For example, when we look at the Book of Springs, there are all single - child families. When you think about it, I remember there must have been a sister on Teele and there was this weird fast family with three stupid kids. People are putting this idea in their heads from a small point of view, from a low ground. And if I'm going to read a book with five kids, then mine's going to ask me why we only have one kid, I'd like to have four or five sisters. Let's take the so-called family package. When I go to the spa with the kids, it says in a small text to buy a family package: the family has up to two children. Does three and four children mean a perverted family? We have an EAS that can organise business competitions etc. Let's write down in the law that we shouldn't be wrong. Can I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U60	Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U61	Thank you. Taking home loans from banks. If a large family wants to borrow, its income per capita is much lower than that of a small family. We have KredEx who could guarantee these loans in the same way as the student loans were paid in due time. We give the banks a state guarantee that the banks will dare to give large families a new home loan so that they can buy an apartment in which they can live. Linking the number of children to the overall image of success. I've studied it with a lot of children, children's rich fathers. They feel that they are richer now than they were when they had few children. It is certainly not just economic wealth; it is also the spiritual and social wealth they feel. But how can we bring this knowledge to a wider society? This is something that not only does the Riigikogu have to do, so we can do as fathers of children's wealth. In summary, I would like to say that our goal is not to buy children for anyone, which is completely ridiculous thinking. Our goal is to remove the limits for families with two children, which prevent them from having a third child and more children. There is not actually one particular magic or silver bullet here, but there are a whole series of small things that we can do: are these legislative changes, are these regulations, are these tax refunds, whatever. In terms of the whole budget, it is not a huge cost, it is less than the construction of our eastern border, which is, of course, important. Thanks for watching and thinking about it. Of course, the randomness and happiness mentioned earlier will soon come Midsummer and Midsummer will be a little helpful, but in fact, we need real decisions and statesmanly thinking to help improve the birth rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U62	Thank you, Mr Tamkivi, for conveying his experience to us. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm a Midsummer Baby, born early April. I ask what specific methods the country should take to increase the number of children.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U64	I actually read several pieces down, too, but these methods aren't linear. We're still talking about creating child-rich families. We're not talking about the fact that we need to get one out of zero or get one out of two, that, as far as I understand the data, works well. We need to get three out of two and four out of three. Tax policy, direct subsidies and benefits just what we can do. These are very specific things that the state can do, such as guaranteeing a loan. One example is when a family with children goes to live in the country. In Estonia's rural areas outside Tallinn, the birth rate is positive, in large cities it is negative. When the family goes to live in the country, he wants to get a loan from the bank to fix the cottage, but they don't give it to him. They're little things. There is no one particular solution here, but there are a number of small things that I can actually start writing down in dozens.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U65	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U66	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! We're more or less in the same club: I have five kids. I think birth and age are the only things we should talk about when we talk about getting out of the population crisis. If we start discussing immigration or something else here, we are essentially talking about speeding up the extinction of the people or something like that. But when we're talking about the issue, the general focus is on women. It is very gratifying that today we also have a father here, a father of a large family. I'm coming back to this cultural value space. I think we have such a taboo that men shouldn't talk about birth rates or births. How can we disprove this taboo?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U67	I guess that's the subject of telling men like me or you just showing a personal example in a society that is very important. For example, I was willing to come here and talk. I asked my husband to come here, but they still wanted a man to come and talk. I don't know if my words are more important than the words of a woman. But in society as such, the existence of rich fathers of children could be pointed out as such. We have hundreds or thousands of fathers who have many children, who do well in life, and who enjoy having many children. It does not have to be a media campaign, but it has to be as conscious of coming to people as we have other influence groups. This personal role model has been very, very simple for me and a lot of friends. When ten years ago, someone had three kids, I made sure he was a little weird. But when all my friends had three kids around, I watched how I only had two, some kind of weird thing. Creating this same social background will not only work for me, but for everyone else too. If there are other people in society who have a much bigger and much cooler family, I would like to be among them, because I see that this is a valuable way of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U68	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you very much for a very constructive presentation, especially for proposing these solutions. It is always a very grateful activity, because everyone can list problems, but sometimes there are few solutions. I really liked the part of your report where you said there wasn't one big thing you could do, but there are a series of small things you should do. I have noticed for myself that families with children, especially those living in the country, have one of the greatest problems of getting a move on. I have this intriguing question: can you say that you are also a taxi driver for your children now, whether and how, if you live in a family rich in children, can you manage without having two seven-person cars?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U70	Thank you. That's a very good question. For the last ten years, I have lived 40 kilometers from Tallinn, which is not the most distant outlying country. Nevertheless, I cannot get out and home by public transport, not to mention my children. Indeed, there must be two or three cars in the family in order to improve logistics. Discussions are currently taking place on the same charges and organisation of public transport. The only thing I miss is that I don't want a bus in my farmyard so I can actually tell my kids to come home from school with this public transport solution. I wish I didn't have to drive twice every day back and forth between Tallinn and Tallinn, or shouldn't have to hire a taxi driver to live in the country. The lack of this same flexible public transport is certainly an important problem. If there were Taxify in the countryside, which I could call, and if subsidising transport would help to reduce this cost a little, then it would certainly be easier to live in the countryside and logistics for my children. I could share more of my success story and other parents could move to the country at lower cost. It's a direct cost if I need three cars and a driver. Inevitably, not all people can afford it. But if it is possible to use flexible public transport solutions, they will also have more opportunities to live in the countryside and have more children here. This is another very simple link.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U71	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U72	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your reasonable presentation. You mentioned parental benefit and appreciated the family's freedom of choice. I would like to ask about this subject that sometimes it has been proposed to force the state to increase the participation of fathers: 9 + 9 months for the state, or this now proposed unfortunate so-called additional father month. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U73	Thank you. I don't consider any state compulsion in a situation that works well in itself to be necessary. In my experience, I do not feel that this one mandatory extra month or nine mandatory months at home would somehow make me have more children. I don't know if there are any political or financial reasons behind this. But to give examples from abroad, Sweden has occasionally been through, where fathers must be at home in a semi-mandatory manner. And what came out of it? When you look at the time the fathers are home, it's especially during the hunting season and the football-MM. Let's just say that the state can produce results with such compulsion. My holiday lasts over football-MM, and I enjoy it too, but not because the country told me in advance, but because I made that choice myself. The same way I said before, my husband had three older children in his home, and I was able to work calmly, and now it is the opposite. I really appreciate this freedom of choice, not that someone's telling me to do it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U74	Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your optimistic speech and your merry performance. I also want to talk about one particular detail. You said you and your family live on an ancestral farm. I got a house somewhere in Valgamaa from my grandmother. But a lot of people haven't done so well. You also indicated that the 2011 census shows that there are more large families in the country than there are in the city. But even without children, it is difficult to obtain a loan from a bank because the price of real estate in the country is so low: for a bank, real estate is not guaranteed to be of such value as to grant a loan. What, then, should be done to allow families with children to live and live well in the countryside? What are these specific nuances that we can do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U76	Thank you. There are basically two solutions. One is the same direct state guarantee and support, guarantee. Let's take the same KredEx. Let's just say that if a three-year-old country family wants to borrow, we'll minimize any risks for the bank to some extent. Perhaps if this family really fails to repay, KredEx will pay itself. The probability that this family will actually be in trouble is much smaller, but as a financial person, I know that the risk models that banks apply are still quite general and do not take into account the specificity. So the first solution is to provide the same guarantee. Secondly, by law, but perhaps also with the involvement of the Financial Supervision Authority, the regulation can confirm which types of income can be taken into account as income by the bank. Very specifically: if I go from the bank to take out a loan, I have to show my income, but it is not compulsory or possible for the bank to count on state child support as an income at the moment. Let's say 100 for one child, 100 for another child, 300 for third child, 100 for fourth, I don't know how much these sums are, or EUR 600 per month, not an income for the bank because it is unreliable. What do you mean? My country pays me subsidies for 18 years in a row, but it's not an income for a bank. It's a much more stable income than any salary. And very specific small regulations can prescribe whether the income from the state should be trusted. It is a bit paradoxical, but it is quite clear that thanks to this extra income, which actually counts, a person's credit capacity is increasing and he is able to borrow more from the bank. The resolution of this matter is purely within the power of this hall, or at least the subject of the Financial Supervision Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U77	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There were very reasonable thoughts coming out of your mouth, and they could be praised here for a long time. But we know a lot of examples from history of how creation has changed the attitudes and perceptions of society. The most professional in this field is undoubtedly the Hollywood film industry, which, for example, with its films has radically changed the attitude towards the police. This is not a good comparison or a good example, but you also highlighted the need to bring more children to the mental family culture of Estonia, that there are more children in a healthy and strong family. In this context, how do you assess the current media and information space, our own films and the whole world that affects us, including young people, every day? How well does this affect this spiritual culture, or what should change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U79	Thank you. Once again, I can share my emotions. I have not done a very large study on this subject, but I have not, frankly, noticed that this family-centredness is very much emphasised. I had an idea about 'Truth and Justice' screening as soon as it finally came out. From literature, from books, we know that there were many children in the family depicted by Tammsaare, there were still a lot of them. I wonder how they are now highlighted in the film: Are these children such black kids from around the corner who are running around, or are they really the flowers of life? Of course, we can't tell the people who produce the creations that you have to sign up for some things on a mandatory basis. At the same time, we can reward them and announce competitions for cultural events such as fairy tales, books, movies, theatre performances, anything that focuses on promoting the number of children. I mean theaters for both children and adults. I have not seen it very clearly introduced into this culture of large families. I think we can quite successfully channel this attitude through the ministry. It may sound a little malicious or mean, but it would be for the good of the thing. We wouldn't force anyone, we'd just change people's opinion. If we had a belief in all the films and books that there were no children in the family, our birth rate would certainly be even lower than it is now. So it's the right thing to focus on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U80	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U81	Thank you, dear waitress. My question is this: what have you been given emotionally in your year of being home with your children? Do you feel more close to your children, and how has this affected family relationships? I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U82	Thank you. Yeah, sure. I'm with my little kid, my daughter, numerically, it's hard to measure it much, much closer than it is with my sons at that age. When the child is in the room on the floor and sees his father in front of him, he'd rather run into my lap than my mother, which never happened to the boys before. I suppose it's so purely because I've been home. And my attitude towards her is the same, it's hard to put the kids in line, but I really feel like I don't know whether it's because I'm getting old or because I'm just being home, that I'm taking my daughter a little bit more warmly. It's a cool feeling, and that's why I'm really glad I've been home this year. There are a lot of small details to monitor the development of a child. Let's just say that when a person at 35 doesn't really develop anywhere, from scratch to the first year, he's going to be awfully fast. It means seeing new things every day that are beautiful and powerful.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U83	Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U84	I have one more question. I also have four children, as do many in this hall and many others. You made a great deal of reference to the fact that we need to pay attention to more children, but you did not have to answer the question of what to say to those people who think the first and second children are important, or at least as important. And the second question is this. Which, in your opinion, is more important to this problem: is it the so-called emotional and cultural perception that there are two children in a normal family, or the difficulties of economic coping, if you put these two at stake?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U85	Thank you. Of course, the first and second children are also important. Nobody says it's not. But let's just say that, as a country, we have to act there, focus on it and put resources where there is a market failure, the same way that Saaremaa's ships are subsidised. The first example that comes to mind: we do not need to subsidise the Tallinn-Tartu bus route, as there is sufficient market demand. Similarly, I see that the birth rate of the first and other children could, of course, be higher, but there is no major market failure. If we look at this graph, the main market failure will occur there: the birth rate will fall sharply after the second child. If our country has limited resources, then we need to channel these resources to where the impact is greatest, that is the point. Surely my message is not that the first children or other children are somehow less important. No percentage of people can have children for biological reasons; a certain percentage of people stays on one child, for example, a single mother finds it very difficult to have more children. There are very rational reasons which restrict the maximisation of this area. The second part of the question was related to... [[A voice from the hall.]] If I had to put them in line, 60% were economic and 40% cultural, but once again: economic brakes were not so big that they would dominate. It is also important to have this cultural attitude, the same as I have felt in my life. As long as there was one or two kids around, it seemed okay to me, but then the community began to develop more children. Any weekend, the families of two friends came to visit me, and as a result, there were 15 children all around. That's a great attitude. That's awesome. If I didn't have these many-child friends' families around, I'd feel weird myself. In this sense, the importance and importance of cultural attitudes are greater than is often imagined.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U86	Dear Taavi Tamkivi, thank you very much for your presentation and for answering your questions and be sure to welcome your husband! On behalf of the Riigikogu, I would like to say that you were not invited here because your husband could not be here to talk, but because I understand that the organisers of today's event also wanted to see a manly, father's point of view on this subject. Thanks again. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the proposal by the Riigikogu and by the large hallists of this important issue is such that the representatives of the political groups can have a speech of up to five minutes. At the beginning of today's sitting, it was negotiated and decided, I will simply remind you. And I will say in advance that, if this debate gets longer, you will all be able to talk, we will have another vote around one o'clock, whether we will be working until 2:00. It's 12:09.54 and we're going to the negotiations. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U87	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good waitresses! Since there is little time, I will be speaking as briefly as possible about the main points that have arisen during this debate. I come back to what Mart Helme spoke about when we are talking about the population crisis in Estonia, then the most important thing is that we do not forget that we are talking about the Estonian nation. At least our party has absolutely no interest in the abstract population; we are interested in increasing the number and proportion of Estonians in Estonia. This should be the goal for all of us to increase the number and proportion of Estonians, not just the population. And it also gives us a very simple, very clear key to further addressing the whole problem: we need to talk about the birth rate and we need to talk about immigration and also about immigration, or population migration. All the children we want here to be born into Estonian families should also grow up here and stay here in Estonia. I am not talking about them not going abroad to study, I am talking about them living their lives in Estonia in general. The last waitress had a very beautiful "population weight" on the slide, and she just showed us which way we're leaning. Just as many families or women without children, we should have four children. Then we'd have an average of two kids. Just as many as we have single-child families or women, we should have three children. It is now clear that we have more women without children than we have women with four or more children, and we have more single children than we have three children. This means that we should have a very clear slogan or a call for all Estonian families: one more child! Make one more child come home to the third and fourth children. This is a very simple task for the Estonian state. If we want the number of Estonians to stop talking about excessive dreaming here, we should definitely have over 15,000 children a year. In fact, the target should be 20,000 children a year. How do we get to that? Of course, we will come to this when the number of children in families is increasing. Yes, economic levers are also important: getting a home and not falling at risk of poverty when you have more children. Here are very practical examples. I have a seven-seater car, and if we're going anywhere with the whole family, it's not good to have a single free seat there if the suitcases fit. Families with large children have such extra costs, and single and two children do not even think about it. But I say that values are even more important than economic arguments: culture is upstream of politics and culture is also upstream of the economy. Perhaps if we poison some values in culture, we will no longer be able to drink clean water in politics and economics. It is therefore crucial to stick to traditional family values and traditional gender roles. The example of mother and father and the fact that they are grandparents is vital. The family should be the primary support network for people, that you have aunts and uncles you hang out with, and grandmothers and grandfathers who come to your aid and give you money to buy a computer or something else when you finish school. This is a vital and primary support network. And when we talk about the population and the birth rate, we can't stop talking about abortion, otherwise half of the problem is left unchecked. I am not talking about banning abortion in Estonia. I am talking about the question of how to reduce the destruction of unborn children in Estonia. Every year 40% of children are destroyed in Estonia. If they were all born, we wouldn't have a crisis. It's as simple as that. Now a few more words, I have 50 seconds. No, we are not talking about forcing people to give birth absolutely not. There's no need for all people to give birth. Crazy feminists or sexually incompetent sexes from whores don't have to pass on their genes. We're talking about people who don't want children and who want to live a teenage life until they're 50 years old. Don't ask for a pension and don't want a health insurance fund if you don't work anymore! The choices must remain for each person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U88	I would also like to remind you that, on behalf of the political groups, speakers first appear on the proposal of the Committee on Problems. On the basis of this logic, Monika Haukanõm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U89	Mr President! Honourable waitresses! Good people's representatives! We often like to say that Estonia needs every child, and we also hear it quite often in this Chamber. As proof of this, we are mainly talking about parental benefit and child benefits. Parental benefit is undoubtedly necessary: it solves the problems of coping when children are still small. Child benefits have risen as high as they have never been before. The result is poverty reduction, which is also very good. However, in order to solve the population problem and crisis, is only universal financial measures sufficient, or should we talk more about the 'assessed need-based approach'? Yes, the decision whether to have a child now and now or not is a deep individual choice for every person, every family. It certainly plays a role here when a specific society is perceived as child-friendly. Is our Estonia child-friendly? Do I believe in the future? Do I believe in getting help from loved ones, families, municipalities and the state when I am in real trouble and can't cope with my own forces anymore? How does the state view children? Is Estonia a safe place to live? Can a family raise a child or a child? Are there kindergartens, schools, opportunities for further education near home? What about the child's job in the future? Is it possible for him to obtain housing? Are these services close to families or far away? Or what if the family has more than one maintenance load - children and grandparents? Can I actually handle all this? And does the environment in which we live support, or does it inhibit, children? The list was long. Yes, every detail can be decisive, and this puzzle of details needs to be seen in a large picture and in its entirety to allow children to be born. The continuation of the Estonian people, language and culture is such a central and important issue that it must be discussed at least once a year in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu, and I sincerely hope that today's debate will be one of many of the forthcoming debates. Debates on the survival and development of the population and making this issue the highest priority for the country are fundamental. But the moment of truth will only come when words are also translated into real action: if every policy, not only traditional children's, family, social and educational policies, but also, for example, fiscal policy, environmental policy, economic and fiscal policy and regional policy, are aimed precisely at this objective. And our actions must be consistent, not like winds of attraction, when the coalition changes or elections take place. We need agreement and understanding at all levels. Let our actions have one goal: Above all, man, especially every child, is important to us, even worth the gold, for true wealth is the wealth of children. Perhaps happiness is in children and strong families. After all, we often ask ourselves why Finns are the first in the world's happiness ranking and we are only 70. A person is free and happy when he has a sense of security, faith in the future and in his country, and children bring final happiness to the family. But to do this, we must keep our people and turn Estonia into a country where we all enjoy and care about everyone. Yes, the family is our safety net, but also communication to preserve Estonian language and culture. Life is a whole, where decisions made in earlier stages of life affect our next choices. The education and wisdom of our people, together with peasantry, is often a good basis for wise decisions, but it requires children to show the right direction, share knowledge, teach them, taking into account both life experience and science and evidence base from their early years. Only in this way can we shape attitudes, channel them to smarter and healthier choices, and our basic values and attitudes are preserved and protected. I believe in Estonia, where children are kept and welcome and their childhood is protected and happy. I also believe that at some point in time, families with more than five children are not really looking strangely at them, but rather looking cheerfully, friendlyly, and supportively. What if we agreed that we would act on this every day and put Estonia among the five most child-friendly countries in Europe, where both children and family-centredity are valued? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U90	On behalf of the Group of the Yoko Alender Estonian Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U91	Dear President, colleagues and, hopefully, a number of viewers via ETV! One of the problems of this debate today is that we are jumping from the meta-level, from the language and culture of the country to the level of the individual, even to the number of private car seats, for example. There's a certain risk. At least I feel a little strange when we try to cut out the population policy somehow. It is actually a fact that every decision we make here affects these questions. It should be perfectly natural for every member of the Riigikogu and every Estonian who sets his or her own life, that all our decisions affect our population. Can the state actually intervene in the freedom of a very personal family, such as the decision to have a child or children? Rather, it would be preferable to say 'let the children rejoice', as Professor Rein Veidemann has offered. I think, as well as the Reform Party, that this is certainly a personal decision, which should not be over-intrusive. Of course, however, when we make our decisions, we can build a reliable country and create the same family-friendly environment. Let us now talk about the Constitution, which has also been quoted repeatedly here today. I, too, have an obligation to participate in the work of this problem committee, and I believe that here in Estonia, where the population has grown for four years instead of shrinking so far, we should think about what we should do to improve the quality of life. So I think that it is not quite right, in reality, to focus solely on this number of children. I think that, for obvious reasons, we also need to take the immigration issue, take this road and discuss these issues. Immigration is certainly an issue that does not disappear from the world, and I think Estonia is also not. Now, however, when children are viewed as future taxpayers, we are talking a little bit about the education system. The contribution to research and development is certainly one of the places that can really increase quality. This is where we owe you. We have said that 1% of GDP should be contributed so that we have higher wages and smarter jobs. This must definitely be continued. I'm going to go to school even more now. I said that we have been growing for the fourth year, but we are growing at the expense of returning Estonians, also at the expense of children coming from the former Soviet Union territories who are going to Russian school in Estonia. Perhaps what has the Human Development Report recommended, which we ourselves have repeatedly highlighted? A common education system is certainly one of the next major steps that will enable us to value all our children more, to offer them more equal opportunities. Further, the KiVa, or anti-bullying prevention program, should become permanent. It should be the everyday life of every school that the state takes care of. Certainly, all so-called human skills must be developed in the same way, because it is precisely these social skills that begin with parental skills. From there, every person will have the basis for creating a safe home where children could be born in the future, and that he will manage to raise these children himself. It's a grant test. Certainly, parental benefit and the support of a third child are very precisely aimed at the path to follow. Universal subsidies are certainly not as effective as we are talking about influencing here, which I think the chairwoman of the Commission spoke too much about. In short, I think it's every family's decision, and we'll stick to it. Finally, a little bit of trust in the country, which is an important component in deciding whether or not people are going to a larger family. Does what is happening to us now create trust? The Eurobarometer survey shows that over the past year, the number of Estonians who think that our country is on the right track has fallen by a quarter. Envelope wages are increasing and the state has started to compensate for the occupation damage itself. Similarly, the tax system, which was mentioned here by a previous speaker, has become incomprehensible. I think all of this has not increased this confidence. But quite finally, every child has a chance to make the world a better place. This is an opportunity for all of us who raise children, teach, train, treat, care. Every move we make, every example we set, is an opportunity to make this world a better place. And from here, thanks to all those who do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U92	Let me remind you that we agreed that the presentations would be as long as they were, but the speeches would be up to five minutes. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we have reached today's debate, thanks to the Committee on Problems for that. 'The fundamentals of public policy' is a very broad and multi-branched document. I myself would have liked to focus more on the most important, i.e. the birth rate, but I do not intend to criticise this document more because its value is that it exists and can only be improved in the future. I very much hope that this will be the basis for the creation of a cross-party platform to bring birth rate policy at the heart of other policies and above the daily political struggles. I am convinced that we can find this joint section with the various political parties and reach an agreement, because what could be more important than population policy, as was written on 24 March by ten people who spoke before on the sustainability of the country in Postimees. In 2005, however, Professor Taagepera wrote the story 'Demographic toilet'. He said we could use an event similar to that of the Hernhutian movement. It takes 22000 births a year to bring people back, but for 15 years we have less than 15,000. We are likely to see 15,000 births again for a long time. The problem is very serious and I do not know if we have enough time. However, I know that we need to act because it is misleading to hope that this year's slightly higher number of births will just get us out of this hole. As the professor writes in his story: 'The demographic hole is such a hole in the bottom of which there is a hole. Like on the toilet. ' Unfortunately, we have already learned to accept 12,000 births a year, although we really shouldn't. This cannot be accepted by society as a whole or by us in this Chamber, because a country, language and culture can only be protected through the ages if there are those who do and want to do it. To maintain the nation state, we need children to be born. Population and birth rate policies are inert, and the impact on society with a long curve can be seen in years, perhaps even decades, but we have to make decisions today or in reality should have been done yesterday. We need to reach the goal as quickly as possible that children's generations will not be smaller than their parents'. Although Estonia is a wonderful place to have and grow children, it is not enough. The world is open and challenging, and if there is no target, a person may lose himself running between different goals. This can happen to countries and nations. We need to start treating family policy measures and children's costs as an investment at both family and national level. This is an important change of attitude. Changes in our attitudes will certainly also play an important role. A family of at least three children should become a new normality. But it is not just a matter of a specific family: we all need to make certain adjustments in our behaviour, pay attention to our children and spouses, etc. What do I mean? Couple of simple examples. My husband has told me on several occasions that when he enters or exits public transport, a two-year-old cunt on one hand and a boy on the Midsummer Day, instead of people coming to his aid, they start looking somewhere else or on the ground. And he has also said that those who notice him are usually either Russian-speaking people or the same people who deliver two children. I have another example of attitude. I remember when I got a call from a local journalist in my previous job as a county manager. He asked why the mayor could not find the time to attend the local dance group's birthday, even if Members were present. I told him I was driving my kid home from kindergarten, he's sick, and we've got a third stop. At the time, South-East Estonia was represented by several delegates who did not have to think about children. The journalist then told me that he had never thought of it that way. Actually, it's obvious to everyone, but we're just not used to thinking about that nuance. We must do this at a social level if we want a change to take place at family level. Family and population policy transfers reach all areas, from education to retirement. The most important thing, perhaps from the point of view of this house, is that we must untie the decisions on demography from the electoral cycle. Every party cares about this subject, and every coalition agreement has something that should help us forward. This is one measure for four years, the operation of which we believe more than we control. That's five steps for 20 years. The snail's faster, too. What can I do? Will a permanent Riigikogu commission be set up to deal with the annual analysis and correction of the course? Would the opposition and coalition be able to cooperate if we set up the Prime Minister's Population Office? One thing is certain: a consistent effort is needed. The question is also whether we will be able to evaluate and take action on this course for the next year before the elections. Many happy children for all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U94	Jevgeni Ossinovski on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats are pleased that the Riigikogu is once again discussing children's welfare and birth rate issues. On our initiative, a similar debate took place in this Chamber as early as 2013. Then we said that Estonia had an unacceptable situation in terms of the future, which at the time was nearly 60000 children living in poverty or at risk of poverty, and 20,000 of them lived in absolute poverty. Poverty is known to regenerate itself: poor children are more likely to become poor adults later. The low birth rate, as we have heard from experts today, has the right many reasons, but one of the most important reasons is the lack of economic confidence. Clearly, if having a child significantly increases the risk of poverty, many families will decide to delay childbearing. That is why I am pleased that during the last four years, the socialist leadership in Estonian family policy has achieved, I dare say, a decisive breakthrough: child support has increased, a child support fund has been set up to support a parent raising a child alone, school lunch is also free in upper secondary school, and the state has started to support the activities of young people. This list could be continued for a long time. What is more important is that this work has also produced real results. While in 2014 9% of children lived in absolute poverty in Estonia, by 2016 this figure had fallen almost three times to 3.5%. Relative child poverty had also fallen from 20% to 16%. The 2017 poverty statistics will only come at the end of this year. There has certainly been a further decline in child poverty, as it was last year that we began to support families with three or more children, where poverty was the most so far. In contrast to most countries, we can therefore say that, on average, having children in Estonia will no longer lead to poverty in 2014 as it was. This is certainly an important achievement. I would like to stress one view of the researchers that, as population processes are long-term, the state must also provide long-term security in family policy. I was therefore sorry to read today's opinion story of a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, where, in addition to a social democratic talk, he repeated again the threat of the Reform Party to take away universal child support from most families. In his day, Andrus Ansip became famous for calling it a plane for money. Mr Alender also reiterated the same threat on behalf of the Reform Party. This is not a smart demographic policy. We may even argue about it from a world-view perspective, but it is certainly an exceptionally bad signal. The progress of recent years, of course, does not mean that we can rest on our laurels. A fairer sharing of the burden of raising children between fathers and mothers is a longer-term issue that society is only beginning to understand. I'm sure the state can also do something to change attitudes here. This is why the government is aiming at making the parental benefit system more flexible in order to allow fathers to spend more time at home with their children while allowing mothers to return to the labour market more quickly and flexibly. Today, the government also sent the second stage of the parental benefit reform towards the Riigikogu. Certainly, the state must also contribute more to creating and supporting flexible childcare facilities. Our pre-school education is very high quality and popular among families. Only that we must certainly ensure that children in economically less-insured families, whose kindergarten is particularly important for their development, are not left without money. Social Democrats have long believed that at least as part of the preparatory work for the last year of kindergarten, families could be free of charge. Finally, I would like to refer to another point that we did not talk about much here today. When we talk about negative growth, we automatically start talking about how more children could be born. Sometimes we talk about emigration. But in the calculation of natural growth, mortality is just as important as birth rate. If the birth rate in Estonia is low, then premature, therefore avoidable mortality, on the other hand, we have nearly 1000 deaths per year, including the highest rates of drug deaths and suicides in Europe. Every injury death is preventable. It can also affect people's wider health behaviour, which causes too early illness. If we could reduce the number of deaths by one tenth, we would already be positive with a slight increase in birth rates. And, you know, it's pretty doable. 20 years ago, nearly 5,000 more people died a year in Estonia than we do now, which means that we have reduced the number of deaths by a quarter. So when discussing how to turn Estonia's population to rise, let us also look at how to keep our weather citizens better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U96	Peeter Ernits, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U97	Good President and few colleagues. Yasser Arafat once once said that his greatest weapon was the womb of an Arab woman, and in Palestine, which is slightly larger than Pärnu, there are 4.5 million people. I would like to know what would President Kaljulaid or Prime Minister Ratas say now, which is Estonia's largest weapon: friendly soldiers and tanks on our bases or NATO's readiness to implement Article 5 at any moment? I don't think so. The Preamble to the Constitution says that the purpose of the Estonian state is to preserve the Estonian nation and culture throughout the ages. There were 1.3 million people in Estonia at the beginning of last year, 904639 of them Estonians. Last year, there were 13784 births. As I have heard and said, it would take at least 20,000 births. However, we have heard again today that the number of young women and men is falling: for 40-year-olds and older, for 44-year-olds, this is 2.5, but for 16- to 26-year-olds, 2.2. The world is quite different: many countries are dealing with how to stop breeding, but our continent is working on how to increase births, stimulate them. The womb of an Estonian woman is not, in fact, worse than that of an Arab woman. The question is why Estonian women do not use their womb in the same way as Arab women do, why does this seed start to germinate there much less often. I think the reason is actually quite simple. Although I heard and read here that economic levers are the most important, I think that in fact, love and stability are the most important. If a woman, the owner of this "largest weapon," feels stable and secure and has a reliable partner next to her, it is also natural that her children are not one-two but three or even more. Of course, the economic levers are helping here, and we have already contributed quite a lot to them, even though the picture is rather cacophonic. So the solution is actually pretty clear, I guess. And think about what Arafat said that the womb of an Arab woman is the greatest weapon for him. If we do not bet on the same thing now, be calm and our beautiful land will not be left empty. And in that case, intimidation, including intimidation of an evil neighbor, would be completely pointless. Why are we intimidated? In any case, the earth will not be empty because, as I said, a large part of the world is dealing with how to slow down its women's womb. I think the most important thing is that the current government has finally come up with two committees. The most important thing, in my opinion, is the same Committee on Population, which we see as a finish today in this Chamber, unfortunately, is that the debate is taking place in a very empty Chamber. Hat off in front of it! The personal question is that there are no miraculous recommendations in this report. The report could have been more serious. Secondly, it is quite funny that we are going to deal with the most important issue here so briefly: the political groups and even speakers will be given five minutes. For all other key national issues, this time has been much longer, but the most important issue we are discussing is five minutes. All right, but in five minutes, it's relatively difficult to talk about the most important thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U98	Let me remind you that five minutes was a joint proposal by the Committee on Problems, which we adopted as a decision at the beginning of today's sitting. Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U99	Is that five minutes for normal people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U100	That even applies to normal people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U101	I'm trying to make it. As has now been pointed out, this problem is not taken seriously by the Committee on Problems itself. Then why should we? I will correct Mrs Ossinovski's previous statement. I mean, he said 5,000 people died before. I just want to say that all people die, there should be no illusions. It is, by the way, the official position of the Reform Party that we are mortal. The problem actually starts from the fact that we must continue to talk about population problems. In this case, perhaps I represent the professor, who is most disturbed by the question of why we are talking about this issue at all and what we are seeking: there is no problem-setting, we do not see the problem, we do not talk about the problem. The Ülo Vooglas would say that it is not worth wasting time on this subject under such conditions. Reason: What do we want? If we want to keep the nation going, this idea ran through here, we need to talk about the situation of the Estonian language, the situation of Estonian culture, the situation of the churches in Estonia, the situation of education that we are doing in order to prevent the proliferation of multiculturalism, etc. Then we are talking about national politics. However, when we talk about settlement policies, the situation is quite different. There are simply no people south of the knee: no young, no old, no medium, no nothing. We can give all kinds of child support, whatever, but if there are no shops and no mail, what are we going to do there, heavenly grace?! It is now possible to travel 10 kilometres straight in South Estonia, and the only one you see is rabbits, because people have not been there for a long time. So we need to understand that this settlement policy is something else entirely. This relates to immigration, the influx of labour and the European Posted Workers Directive. And then we have to talk about it and put that cultural thing aside. The third question, which has not been touched by anyone here, is the demographic structure, which was, as we know, the question of the ratio between the capital that is already producing and supporting according to Marx, or the third part of the capital structure. The subject hasn't been up at all today. We are talking here about economic inputs, that the pension system needs to be supported, etc. It's a matter of manufacturing technology, but nobody even talks about it. Suppose we have some kind of problem with economic resources, let children be born, etc. Wait, why? Did I get it right? Let them be born somewhere behind the bush and grow up between the fields? This is how we get a workforce for Tallinn. And that's the fourth problem. Why does no one talk about the problem in Tallinn? We do not have cheap, simple labour, and in order for it to come to Tallinn, it is necessary to give birth in the south. By the way, this is a perfectly wise question from Tallinn's point of view. Why not discuss it? But that question hasn't even been asked. Look, the problem is, if we do not know what we want, do we want a nation state, an inhabited territory or an economic structure that supports a certain social standard of living? These are different problems. And the fact that we haven't even understood the problem in three hours and we're talking about completely contradictory things means we have a committee of problems, but there have been no problems. I would remind you that there was no population problem in Tsarist Russia. The niggers were a problem that was looked at, but the recruits continued because then there was a normal, holistic, ideologically based development of the country. This development, by the way, was such that no boys from Finland were enlisted because there were too many of them even during the Crimean war. Dear friends, we have been given very, very much time here, we can talk at any time. But if we do not ask ourselves a simple question from the very beginning, what exactly do we want? The next debate will be even more pointless than what was today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U102	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U103	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Of the members of the Commission, indeed, there are only three of us left in this Chamber at the moment, so 50%. I would like to say that today's debate was not intended to discuss all the Commission's work and all the problems relating to the population issue. The title, as you can see, is much narrower and shorter. So this was not an all-encompassing issue, so perhaps part of the criticism was a bit redundant. Nor was this a summary of the Commission's work that was under discussion today, but only a narrow part of the Commission's activities and the problem that was raised in this Chamber. The more towards the end of the debate, the less something to add, but it has also been said that repetition is the mother of wisdom: I am talking about a few things, however. I guess it's all sounded like I was gonna talk about, but since the decision was made, I was still here until almost 1:00, and I thought I'd come before you. It has often been asked whether this is the Estonia we wanted. So what's the answer? If there are dissatisfied, we obviously did not want an Estonia where we really have about 12,000 births a year. In Europe, this problem is being tackled in the same way and the workforce from outside Europe is being called in. Perhaps it is a mistake that our ideology, which has also come here from Europe, which has travelled here to Estonia, is a bit of a perverse approach to what we are living by. The decisions that we have made have not created the preconditions for growth so that our people and our culture will be preserved in the future. It is clear that those who come to us here are not the people of our culture and the values that are recorded in our constitution, they do not carry. And the Constitution does not say that our goal is to have a fixed population of people there talking about culture and a nation that can still be preserved by our own people. Perhaps our media reports have also gone away from creating the basis for the preservation of our culture and nation. We often talk about the pleasures that life should offer us, but also about the fact that 4000 people are not born in Estonia every year. We should pay more attention to the fact that if the child was born, it would not grow, die unfortunately, not go outside Estonia, but stay here, which is really worthwhile. Maybe it's a mistake that our targets and some mantras are wrong if we keep saying that women should go to work soon after the baby's born. Perhaps we should think a little about making our lives more secure, and we will get back to the economic levers, so that families have the opportunities and their livelihoods do not fall when children are born into the family. No longer affects people when making decisions, of course, cultural background: if they feel that a child is welcome and society gets to cope with that it is of value. We talked a lot today about what happens when the baby is born. But what should we really think about this background? What can we do to make the decision that this child will be born? And when we talk about the population crisis, which for us first has to do with births, not immigration, we should actually make a radical turn at the level of power. If this does not happen, we will not be able to overcome this population crisis either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U104	Tarmo Kruusimäe, is this a procedural question? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Ei, kohapealt.'???]] Then before Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, the specialists who have spoken today! This is a very grateful subject to be discussed. This really should be done more closely and not only discussing it, but all good ideas and thoughts must also be put into practice. I just want to remind you that the idea of a problem committee for the population crisis originally came up with the Conservative People's Party. For political reasons, it was, of course, rejected, the coalition hijacked the issue and set up the Commission about six months later. 'Lucky enough to be a source,' says the old Estonians. Unfortunately, we have to admit that work is sometimes very active in the Commission, but the result is very general and declarative. In fact, the deeper content or purpose of the matter has not been seen, which is very simple. Our Constitution says that the state of Estonia is designed to preserve Estonian nationality, language and culture. If we look at how the Commission's objectives were originally set, they had that our goal is only to preserve the Estonian population. I'm sorry, is this really constitutional? When we proposed that this objective should be brought into line with the Constitution in concrete terms, we read that the Commission's work and the whole document are aimed at preserving the Estonian population, including Estonian nationality. I'm sorry, if the targets are wrong, there's no way this cart's gonna make it to the right place. There has been a great deal of talk today about both economic and other security. Indeed, this is one of the most important reasons why little children are born, and the main task is to provide people with a sense of security. When we look to the rest of the world, we actually see a democratic, European country from which we can follow the example. This is Israel, where the birth rate is higher than the mortality rate. And when we look at what has been done there, it is precisely this sense of security that has been created, the attitude of society as a whole, all the value systems, the support given to families at birth, growth and childcare, etc., is in this interest. It is a single system which is precisely linked to the values of society together. This is crucial. All of this we should also do in Estonia, but unfortunately we can see that if any subsidies are granted in one direction, then there are few of them that should be much wider. There shall be no third or fourth child if there is no first or second child. It is precisely this view of value that the family is the most important thing that must be supported. Statistics also show that it is in the family that more children are born. Unfortunately, the Commission document does not put the absolute emphasis on this. People's security is reduced not only by economic and similar factors, but also by the general situation in society. The state, on the one hand, says that there are few children, but with the other hand, the doors open to immigration and migrant workers, which result in a systematic decline in the space of Estonian language and culture. If Estonia is thus set in a poverty trap, then of course people will leave here and if children come, they will come from elsewhere. Doctor Jaak Uibu, who is advisor to the population group, has sent dozens and dozens of letters to ministries, ministers, Chancellor of Justice, president, academy, university, speaker, etc. And no one is responsible. Everyone says the subject is really up, it has to be dealt with, but nobody does. So the most important thing is that we need to determine, put in place the authority that is dealing with this most burning situation and also responsible for ensuring that we can overcome this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U106	Ladies and gentlemen, the taboo shows that the moment has come when we have to vote on whether or not we are extending the meeting, sitting or not. I'll only give you 30 seconds to get together. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the meeting until 2 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 14 delegates. That means we'll work until 2:00 and no longer. Please, about Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U107	Thank you, Mr President. For some reason, the completely unrecognized political observer, Bjorn, has said that if there is a problem and you do not want to deal with it, then a Commission must be set up. Unfortunately, he may be halfway in the right direction. But I want to finish my little line with the words "love and touch each other."
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U108	Siret Eagle-Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U109	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear members of the Riigikogu who have remained in this hall! Good viewers! First of all, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs who made very good presentations and gave an important overview of their field of activity. I also thank the members of the Riigikogu who took the trouble to speak or ask questions to participate in the debate. A great many here raised the question of whether such a Commission is necessary at all, how it should proceed and whether the fundamentals of population policy, which have been drawn up until 2035, are meeting its objectives. I just want to remind the good members of the Riigikogu that the population crisis is not an economic crisis that can be resolved in two or three years and with some measures. I think that the population crisis and the search for solutions, so that we come out of the hole that we have reached today, will last at least as long as this crisis has been going on. We are actually talking about the fact that the Estonian population has decreased since regaining independence. Therefore, these solutions cannot be short-term but must be long-term. The Committee on Populations created a document aimed at establishing the fundamentals of population policy until 2035. It is true that this document sets objectives and lines of action as to how the Estonian state could proceed. We have done so as consensually as possible with all political groups so that the thoughts of all political parties in the Riigikogu on the area of population policy can be reached. We have sat down with all the political groups, furnished a document and reviewed everything. The fact that there may not be a consensus in such a large area simply demonstrates the immaturity of Estonian democracy to me. I hope that the Riigikogu actually looks away a little bit and can see farther. If we cannot agree now on some principles, principles of how to move forward so that the Estonian population is preserved, our culture, knowledge space and language will continue to exist, we will have an even greater gap in a few years' time. I think most Estonians want more of our own people to be born in Maryland. Most Estonians do not want to see so much that we have citizens from other countries to give birth here. And I think that the right policy can put these objectives together and achieve all of this. As I mentioned earlier, Estonians and Estonian families wish to have everyone living here in Estonia, in fact, two to three children. That's what they want. Yes, in fact, fewer are born, which means that the Estonian state must take steps to get to the fact that families have so much confidence and support that they want to give birth to children in our country. We have done so in the Ratas government that families with three children now receive EUR 500 in family support. This is a major step forward and must be recognised. We see that more third children are born into families. However, we must admit that now the subsidy system has remained very large... I'll take some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U110	We agreed on five minutes, that was your proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U111	... a gap between single- and two-child families. I am very confident that in the coming years, we must also focus on single- and two-child families, so that the Estonian state recognises them and shows them that they too are very important to our country. So I say once again that we are united and we see things more coherently! We must now take steps to ensure that the Estonian population remains stable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U112	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the last rapporteurs who have stayed in the Chamber. I did not intend to come to this speech chair today because a number of speeches have already been made by members of our group, but something remained to be scratched. There were quite a few things left to scratch, and not just what I heard in this hall. First of all, the fact that more is said about the population, the labour force and the pensioner than about the Estonian people who would be proud of their country and be able to live in their own country in dignity remained a scratch. This is actually the substance of the matter, not the fact that we have a decrease in the number of working hands in the context of a population crisis. Are you sure you're shrinking? I know a different set of statistics, which says that in 50 years' time, we will not be short of 100,000 pairs of hands, but 50,000 jobs are missing, because innovation and technological progress have led to the fact that working hands are not so much needed anymore. And then what do we do with all the Arabs, the Negroes, the Ukrainians and the Russians we've dragged here because entrepreneurs want slave labour for low wages and we just need retirement workers? So what do we do with them, how do we integrate them? That's the one thing I got scratched here. We have the wrong point of view on this whole subject. By the way, the Ministry of the Interior rejected the allegations of an article by Henn Põlluaasa. Henn Põllaas said we were having a population crisis. The Ministry of the Interior announced that we do not have a population crisis: Estonia's population grew last year, albeit as a result of immigration. You see, respectable, there are about 900,000 Estonians in Estonia, next to us, and there are about 200 million Russian speakers among us. What conclusion do we draw from this? We will draw a very unambiguous conclusion from this: if we fail to manage our own country, this country will be taken away from us. Russians and Ukrainians do not come here to earn pensions for the last old Estonians. They come here to earn a better salary for themselves and take over this cultural space, the language space and, ultimately, this country, which is why we are selflessly intimidated by Putin. Putin's Putin doing his country thing. We are us, and we must do our country's business. We must not give this same Putin the opportunity to carry our country's affairs with us in an instrumentalised way. We have the wrong view of our whole demographic approach. This morning, I kicked the Earth leaf open. And what did I read there? A completely non-existent movement called 'Estonia 200', five people, now Igor Taro has joined as the sixth person, telling us how we need to do mixed schools, putting all our children together in mixed schools. What is wrong with Russians speaking Russian in these schools and Estonians speaking Estonian? This is very bad because we only have 900000 Estonian speakers, and there are 200 million Russian speakers living next to us, that 200 million will just take over. There's got to be a complete intelligent idiot to not understand this fact, or just the enemy. These are the central issues. Time's running out. Like I said, I wasn't planning on coming here, but there were a lot of things left to scratch. We are not talking about the population, we are talking about the Estonian people. We are not talking about mixed schools; we are talking about dominance of the Estonian language and being in a key position in our own nation state. If we mix these things up, we will not solve any questions, but we will simply give away our nation state, our language space and our culture. And who doesn't understand it? The Lord will punish the one from whom he takes away his mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-31_U114	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Honourable waitresses, honourable questioners and co-thinkers, thank you for today's debate. And let's not forget that tomorrow is International Child Welfare Day. The best! Closure of the sitting at 1.12.
