ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U1	Good morning, Reverend Riigikogu. The Tuesday session of the 10th working week of the VIIIth plenary session will begin with the referral of drafts and enquiries. There is no such initiative. Requesting presence check! The session will be attended by 63 delegates. May I have your attention, please? I will clarify today's agenda. On today's ninth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group (701 SE), a member of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U2	Today's first item is the processing of the draft decision to appoint a member of the Supreme Court, which we will discuss at one reading. I'll give you a brief overview of how we do it. First, the presentation by Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Constitutional Committee, is up to 20 minutes, followed by a presentation by Velmar Bret, member of the Supreme Court, for up to 5 minutes. Further questions come to them, each member of the Riigikogu may ask each of them an oral question. Representatives of the political groups will take part in the negotiations, then there will be a final vote. And now, please, your attention! Due to § 79 (2) (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, voting at the Riigikogu session is secret when a member of the Supreme Court is appointed. So much for that. Now I would like to ask a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Helmut Hallemaa, in front of the microphone!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Member of the Supreme Court, Velmar Brett! The Constitutional Commission discussed the appointment of a member of the Supreme Court on 19 November 2018. In addition to the members of the committee, the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe, and the candidate of the member of the Supreme Court, Velmar Brett, were invited to the meeting. On 1 November, the long-time judge of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, Lea Kivi, emigrated, and pursuant to § 53 (2) of the Judicial Act, the President of the Supreme Court announced a competition to find a new member of the Supreme Court, which received eight applications. After hearing the opinions of the court administration council, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court and the political groups, the President of the Supreme Court proposed to the Riigikogu that Harju County Court judge Velmar Brett be appointed as a member of the Supreme Court. Velmar Bret has a pretty long experience of working in court since 2011. Since 1998 he was a lawyer and before that he worked as a lawyer in the Estonian Consumer Cooperatives Central Association and later as head of the legal department. At the meeting of the committee, Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, emphasised in particular that the current candidate's experience as a lawyer will certainly benefit from the work of the Supreme Court. Currently, only two judges have this experience of members of the Supreme Court, and it would certainly be good to have more experience in the Supreme Court, said Priit Pikamäe. In addition, the candidate is involved in training judges, prosecutors and lawyers in the field of criminal law. Priit Pikamäe confirmed that he considered Velmar Brett to be a worthy candidate for the seat of a member of the Supreme Court. There was a discussion at the committee on how the candidate's meeting with the representatives of the political groups took place. Priit Pikamäe claimed that his senses were such that most of the political groups supported Velmar Bret's candidacy. Jüri Adams raised the question because a few days before, in this Chamber, the debate initiated by the EKRE, as a matter of national importance, had been discussed about the shortcomings of the courts and, at all, the justice system, whether the appointment of Velmar Bret was, in the EKRE's view, a step in the right direction. Priit Pikamäe mentioned that he cannot say anything about the EKRE's assessment, but in fact the appointment of a person with such experience as a member of the Supreme Court is certainly useful for the work of the Supreme Court. He also expressed his conviction that the Estonian legal system was in perfect condition. There was also a discussion on the language issue: how the decision of the Riigikogu should state the name of the candidate. A good colleague, Hanno Pevkur, finally pointed out that in future such decisions could also be more likely to have a candidate. But in this case, there is no problem because people with a similar name do not work in this system. But theoretically there could be, and in the future you could consider it. We made procedural decisions, all of which were adopted by consensus: to put the draft on the agenda of today's sitting, to appoint a waitress before you and, in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to propose to Velmar Bret, a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, to present a presentation before us for up to five minutes. There is also a proposal for a final vote on the draft, which, as the President has just mentioned, is secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U4	Peeter Ernits uses his right to ask a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U5	Good manager! Good waitress! A candidate for a member of the Supreme Court has eliminated a number of respected lawyers here. I'm gonna ask you a question like that. It has been said that he has received the sharpest feather prize as a first instance judge with high quality judgments. What does that mean, and did you discuss it? Does this mean that all his decisions as a first instance judge have remained unchanged? And what are his biggest processes that we could know here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U6	Thank you for your question. Yes, I also read in the explanatory memorandum provided by the President of the Supreme Court, this fact, but I owe you an answer. This is not what we discussed in the Commission. But the next candidate for a member of the Supreme Court is here and it is possible to ask him.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U7	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. And indeed, now a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, Velmar Brett, gets the floor. Please! The speaking time is up to five minutes, then the questions will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and President-in-Office. It is indeed a great honour for me to be here in this most important Estonian hall and to speak before such an honorable company. Thank you for this opportunity. As the previous candidates have spoken before in front of you, the judge cannot have his own program. I would therefore like to reflect in my speech on what should be the right judge or the perfect judge. What do we expect from a perfect judge? Wisdom, honesty, justice, impartiality, independence, dignity. Wisdom, it means having good legal knowledge, knowing case law, but also having a wide range of horizons, understanding social processes, having a life experience, and being able to apply your knowledge. The judge must be honest, honest above all to himself, because if you are honest with yourself, it is not difficult to be honest with others. A righteous mind involves honesty and impartiality. You do not prefer the interests of one person to those of another, but you take them into account in a balanced way; you are also respectful of those who, for one reason or another, are disgusted by the surrounding ones. The judge's just mind is also connected with empathy. The righteous judge senses the pain of the victim or victim, as well as the one that led to the accused of the offender, and the righteous judge takes them into account in resolving matters. Independence and impartiality are also linked. The judge may not be influenced by one party's pressure or performance, hears both parties, but makes his decision independently. Independence and impartiality mean the courage to stick to our positions even if they are not the most popular. All these qualities together constitute dignity. There are not always only the right solutions in law, it cannot always be said that this is the only and correct solution chosen by the Court. At the same time, the decision of the solution is, in a sense, a social agreement that an authoritative person, i.e. a judge, makes an honest and fair decision about his best skills and knowledge, which is accepted by everyone and which guarantees peace of law in society. In doing so, the more dignified the judge is, the more authoritative the decision is, and the less there is a dispute as to whether it really was the most correct solution. So the greater the peace of law. What is the point of my debate? Let the judges remain dignified, let us not overwhelm all the judges who honestly, wisely, fairly, impartially and independently do their utmost to ensure judicial peace. Let us not push all the problems to the judges. The judge should, however, deal primarily with justice. Let us not overstate the time limits for proceedings. As a result, the right of persons to be heard suffers, among other things. Let us not over-regulate the procedure, let us trust more judges. I've been in contact with the justice system for 20 years: 12 years as a lawyer and 8 years as a judge. I believe in the Estonian legal system, I also believe in the Estonian judicial system, and I believe that my colleagues are wise, honest, impartial, fair and independent and dignified judges. In answer to the question put here to the previous rapporteur, I note that the sharpest feather will not be awarded for the judgments that remain unchanged, but will be given if the judgments are clear, well-argued. As regards the annulment of judgments, indeed, I have quite a few of them annulled. For example, when it comes to complaints of misdemeanour that have been easy to keep track of, in eight years, I have only two misdemeanours annulled. That's what I'd end up with.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U9	Thank you very much. Your feather is not only sharp but also accurate. A few minutes went fast, and all this text is also in the verbatim, it is worth reading over. Peter Ernits, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U10	Good manager! Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! You've already answered my question a little bit, but maybe you'll open up a little bit of your background, name larger or more remarkable processes, where you've been involved and which you'd be happy to put on your resume. Is there any black sheep you want to forget or what you were wrong about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U11	First of all, all my decisions I've made are that I haven't had to feel the pain of my conscience since. There are some decisions on which I have later thought that I have been wrong, I have done a little wrong, there are, I think, two or three decisions, but they have, fortunately, been properly resolved in a higher court. Given that I have made 2200 solutions in the order of 2200 throughout my working time, these two or three decisions, which I am somewhat embarrassed to recall, but which were certainly not ultimately wrong decisions, are not much of a decision. The Liviko case must have attracted the most attention to my solutions; there was a big debate about this. I have also made an example of Facio's settlement, which the Supreme Court has annulled. I said that the two companies of Facio constitute an economic whole, and I found both parties guilty. The Supreme Court annulled it, but it nevertheless indicated that the idea was correct and that the legislator must contribute here. My most important solutions have mainly been economic. I was mainly specialized in economic matters, which are very complex in nature. First, you need to clarify the economic substance of the matter and then give it a legal assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U12	Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! No further questions for you. Before we decide, the representatives of the political groups will be able to express their opinions. Mr. Brett, thank you very much. There are no requests to speak. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 753. At the beginning of the sitting, you remember, there was talk about this vote being secret, but completely openly we are going to prepare this secret vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the secret vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Velmar Breti Appointment to the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe (753 OE). Please take a stand and vote. There were 67 delegates in favour of the draft, with one abstention. Member of the Supreme Court, Velmar Brett, congratulations on your appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U13	Second item: First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Malle Seppiku," submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe. Mr Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision was dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 19 November 2018 and comes from life itself. On August 28, Malle Seppik has applied to be released from the Supreme Court because of his retirement pension. Pursuant to § 147 (1) of the Constitution, the grounds and procedure for the dismissal of a judge are laid down by the Act and, pursuant to § 99 (3) of the Law on Courts, the Riigikogu is released from office on the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court of the Riigikogu. The same applies to the next draft. Our procedural decisions were as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's plenary session, to hold a final vote and to appoint a rapporteur before you. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U15	The question comes from Evgeny Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We are currently discussing the dismissal of a member of the Supreme Court. But what happens if the Riigikogu does not support this decision? Does this person, despite his declaration of will, have to continue to do this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U17	Thank you for your question. This is certainly an interesting philosophical question. I think that we are all entitled to old-age pensions, and there is obviously no way to make an obstacle here. But there's still a long way to go until that release, so we'll probably still be able to handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U18	Let me remind you that every member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U19	Good manager! Good waitress! With regard to the previous question: what will happen if the Riigikogu does not allow Malle to retire? And the second question, which is fundamental: are such items even appropriate? Why are we discussing whether or not to allow a judge or someone else to retire? Shouldn't we put an end to this practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U20	Thank you. I'm sure there's every chance to end this practice. All kinds of draft laws can be submitted. It has so far been provided, as I have already said, so that, according to the Constitution, this procedure is governed by the law and the dismissal of a judge takes place under Paragraph 99 (3) of the Courts Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U21	Dear waitress, thank you very much. No further questions. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That is not what we want, we are preparing for the final vote, which is public. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, 'Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Malle Seppiku', 707. Please take a stand and vote. There were 62 delegates in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. The draft of the decision of the Riigikogu "Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Malle Seppiku," submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe (707), has been adopted as a decision and the concerns of two members of the Riigikogu have been broken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U22	Third item: First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Eerik Kergandberg's Member of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court (708 OE). Mr Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision was also on the agenda at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 19 November 2018. Eerik Kergandberg, a member of the Supreme Court, is being dismissed from the judicial office, based on his personal request. If we make this decision, he will finish his work on 1 September 2019. The decisions we made in the Commission were also consensual: to put the draft on today's agenda, to appoint a rapporteur before you and to propose a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U24	Peter Ernits' question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U25	Good manager! Good waitress! You're like the chairman of the Supreme Court Retirement Committee. But explain to me how many more of these statements are coming! At the moment, the impression is that on 1 September the judges of state will retire at large. Are there more coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U26	I really don't know the age structure of state judges. But we have a legitimate mechanism that comes from the Constitution and the Law of the Courts. And today we appointed a new judge of state. Some time ago, we called Heiki Lood a judge of state. I'm sure every vacancy will be filled by law, as prescribed by the prescribed procedures. But how I got here is a decision made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U27	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! What is your position: can we really replace the procedure for releasing a member of the Supreme Court in the future by, for example, thanking the outgoing member of the Supreme Court? I would like to thank Mr Kergandberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U29	Thank you. We can certainly thank these people by confirming their resignation today. This is possible for the President of the Supreme Court as well as for every Estonian citizen. I think it is a good thing that we know who will become a member of the Supreme Court and be released from office as a member of the Supreme Court. I see nothing wrong with the fact that the highest legislative body in Estonia knows this. But the people in this Chamber have the opportunity to take any legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U30	Thank you very much for the waitress. Above all, it is possible to thank the representatives of the political groups for what they have done during the round of negotiations. However, this is not yet a wish. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 708, and we will prepare it. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? I put to the vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu, presented by the President of the Supreme Court, 'Eerik Kergandberg's release from the judicial office of a member of the Supreme Court' (708 OE). Please take a stand and vote. 60 members of the parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, with no abstentions. The draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, "Eerik Kergandberg's release from the judicial office' (708 OE) has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U31	First reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu Trouble Committee to resolve the population crisis (754 OE) submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft decision is probably as formal as the two previous ones. Namely, according to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Group of the Estonian Free Party will present a draft amendment to the decision aimed at confirming Jüri Adams as a member of the problem committee for resolving the population crisis. The reason for this draft is very simple: namely, our previous representative, Monika Haukanõm, has left the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U33	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. The rapporteur mentioned that it was a formal procedure, but it also has its own specific rules. Andres Herkel didn't take advantage of his report time of up to 20 minutes. The representative of the commission may also report for 20 minutes. The next question is to the waitress. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit one oral question to each of the rapporteurs, the representatives of the political groups can take part in the negotiations and then the final vote will take place. As a member of the Helmut Hallemaa Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to ask you for a co-report on the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U34	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was also on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 19 November and comes out of life itself, as Mr Herkelgi explained. We will replace one good member in the composition of the problem committee with another good member on the proposal of the Free Party Group. The Commission took procedural decisions: to place the draft on the agenda today, to appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs before you as rapporteur and to propose a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U35	Please, Peter Ernits, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U36	Good manager! Good waitress! Aren't you embarrassed about the whole procedure? Before we voted on whether to allow respected national judges to retire suddenly, and now we could discuss for 40 minutes that one political group would replace one member of its committee with another. Isn't this a waste of time? Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U37	Thank you for your question. Time is certainly one of the most important resources, but we do not have to discuss this issue for 40 minutes But your question is actually quite pertinent. Very soon the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu arrives in the Chamber and there the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that this procedure be brought into line with the procedure for the exchange of members of permanent committees. The political groups shall amend their representatives in committees by a proposal to the Bureau and the Bureau shall make such amendments. This could certainly be exactly the same in the case of problem committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U38	Thank you very much for the waitress. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 754. No amendments have been tabled. Is the hall ready to vote? I vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Constitution of the Riigikogu' to resolve the population crisis' (754 OE). Please take a stand and vote. 52 national delegates voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, with no abstentions. The draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu Trouble Committee on the Constitution of the Riigikogu to resolve the population crisis (754 OE) has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U39	The next item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party on 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic to make Estonia's basic education and school education uniform and in Estonian (682 OE) first reading. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing today, in my opinion, the most important policy that is currently actually on the agenda in Estonia. This is the transformation of the Estonian education system into a national language since kindergarten. I'm saying it's the first time we've had hope. If all members of the Riigikogu and political groups act as they have said in their speeches in one way or another, we will give the government the task of dealing with this matter quickly. I would argue that this topic was heroically avoided for 25 years. It was ignored, feared, intimidated, not even prepared in the Ministry of Education. My personal experience is that once I arrived at the Ministry of Education, the Estonian language of education was never raised before the Minister as a serious subject. That is why I admit that I, too, who have been an active person on a number of policy issues, did not perceive the importance of this subject in the ministerial position, or rather the possibilities of this change going through the political agenda. Throughout this period, we have been able to fix such very timid initiatives and half-steps. Despite the fact that the Minister's portfolio had been clearly held by a party with a national attitude for seven years before me, I still did not sense that it was an issue that would be brazen to deal with. And at one point, being fooled into this area, I still didn't catch it, and that's why I feel guilty now, which I believe I can share with the entire company of this hall, who was just as indifferent. At the beginning of 2017, I felt that there was some kind of change in mentality in society, which also led us, the initiators of this draft, to behave differently. Something in the media, something in the speeches, also in the Russians' speeches, convinced that the Russians have the will to gain a better education in Estonian society, a better position and a wider social network. The desire to keep separate is reduced. So far, there's been an attitude as long as they don't bother us. I think a journalist from Narva mentioned that the Russians had this attitude last week. As long as they fight with each other, they won't bother us. This attitude is still somewhat in Estonia, but in general the Russians have started to speak more boldly that education is a key issue in order to achieve a better position in society and also a greater consensus. Education, the language of education above all, is important. We've been talking to other parties in the meantime. We have also addressed the issue in the debate on a very important national issue, which, I recall, was initiated by the party Isamaa. We have perceived the differences between parties when dealing with this issue, but in general we have felt that the change is important, that it needs to be started and that it cannot be avoided any more. Personally, I think that this is also the most important issue in the context of the elections, how serious we are. This is a very effective step that can actually bring about changes in society. Of course, there are other issues that excite us, but major changes are, in my opinion, best achieved by solving this problem. There's gonna be confirmation on the news all the time. Now for the draft format. It is a draft decision, we want to propose to the government. The draft itself has received criticism that the text has been dropped carelessly on paper. At the same time, this idea has been supported in the hall. A careless criticism was made that they made some sort of empty and propaganda bill that doesn't change anything. Actually, it's the other way around. In fact, it is with this draft that it is possible to test the scope of political consensus. This is a message that political parties and politicians have said on the same subject. Whether there are 51 votes or not, whether we start or do not, it depends on the vote. Just as with yesterday's statement on Ukraine, we need to look at who voted and ask questions. Do people follow their own words or not? This is an undertaking in which we can dictate only political will in a situation where all power is actually in the hands of the executive. Practically all activities are in the hands of the government, starting with legal expertise. We have here stated in the debate on this important national issue that there are seven legislative changes to be made, but in the Riigikogu I do not have any experts available to say exactly what should be changed in order to switch to education in Estonian from kindergarten onwards. It still requires the entire arsenal of executive power to find out where there are legislative obstacles and whether they exist at all. I have been told by one executive of the Ministry of Education that there are actually no legislative obstacles and there are certainly no obstacles under the Constitution. That's what the courts have said. The Constitution would rather support this initiative than oppose it. It is the executive that must distribute resources, both spiritual and material, allocate money, get started, make strategies and development plans. The executive is the one who needs to start training Supposedly in kindergarten, this change is the easiest. In order to make kindergarten Estonian, you do not need a doctorate, Mart Rannut has said. Schools certainly have a bigger teacher's drought. But since this drought is very big anyway, we could think this way: it is not about whether we can afford multiple school systems, two divorced school systems, but about how it offers a much-needed solution to optimize the faculty so that the best can get the best application and improve learning outcomes. It is the executive that can work with educators and bring together all the expertise, organise cooperation with scientists, municipalities, school managers in general, as well as interest groups such as parents. The executive can also arrange for checks to be carried out to improve the level of school leaders. It is clear that there is a great deal of opposition at the level of school management, in some ways also at the level of schoolkeepers. It has also been pointed out in this hall that there are municipalities, especially in North-East Estonia and Tallinn, where there is a clear opposition, and there are also political forces who have expressed their opposition to the Estonian language of education in a programmatic way. This has also been reflected in the financial allocations. In some places the transition to the Estonian language of the upper secondary school to 60:40 has been approached in a different way: it has been abandoned and financially stimulated by those who do not follow this relationship. And it's definitely a reverse, no matter what. The Estonian language strategy is also the executive power to organise curricula, educational resources, etc. So the proposal to the executive is to put the right instrument into a law without a big word. In particular, however, it should be stressed that language learning is not enough. The Prime Minister has repeatedly rejected the word couple 'in Estonian', answering questions on this subject. He has spoken about learning Estonian. It is a deliberate omission; it is cynical distortion of the question, denial of the problem and damage to its constituents. It is not a question of language learning. This is a question of Estonian-language, national-language education. New news has come from the PISA tests, which do not measure thrashing, but reflect on thinking ability. The results show once again that Russian-speaking schools have had a year-and-a-half level below those of Estonian-language schools. This is an extremely alarming fact. This is a fact that the chauvinists could point out: we produce second-class people, those who get worse education, just as the Human Development Report confirms. They have poorer prospects for society, poorer health, poorer habitats, poorer jobs, broken social networks. All these are factors that, in combination, damage the Prime Minister's party, or the Centre Party. The Centre Party has been the most indifferent to this issue. I read the verbatim reports on this subject. I read about Aadu's heartfelt concern for Estonian language and culture, as well as the comment that he expressed his personal views. It was saddening when the representative of the Centre Party expressed only personal concern on this subject, not partyly. But now there is an opportunity to express this concern in the Centre Party, while expressing concern for the fate of its main electorate. Let's face it, that's the way it is! It is not because of laziness, but because they have a narrow social network and a separate education system that restores poorer performance, poorer education, poorer health. Please think about it! I do not want to go over this issue, but it is also a matter of security. This social network and this attitude inevitably also raise the question of security. That yesterday it was Russian-speaking ambassadors who fled the hall, so as not to vote against, we all know. Seven people, six of them Russian-speaking and Russian-speaking electorate of course, decided according to the language of their main electorate, not according to their conscience. In essence, they said that they were not interested in Russia's neighbouring countries' right to their territory, their freedoms. That was sad. And this problem begins with the education system, if not with these people's ambassadors, then with their electorate. That's a fact. As Mart Rannut said here, a immersion is not enough. Yes, the choice of methods is one of the main tasks of the executive, but it also requires a desperation. Decentness, which means that knowledge must be given, attitudes must be changed, and behaviour must be changed. And there must be the political will of the political elite, which is also expressed in this Chamber at the level of the Riigikogu. That might break this involuntaryity, which is also fixed in statistics. I have already noted the financial allocations of the municipalities of Tallinn and Narva, which also received the Russian-language schools within the framework of the special programme. We, the initiators, think that all this must be started now. This is not something that can be done quite the same everywhere in Estonia. Mart Rannut, who, in my opinion, gave the best speech in the debate on this crucial national issue, also said that, well, let's first solve 90% of the problem and then move forward in northeastern Estonia step by step or step, perhaps you could say. Everything doesn't work out the same way everywhere. Another of the biggest experts in this area ♪ he was once my colleague, now he is the head of the Integration Foundation ♪ ♪ has said that maybe this is all a bit of a whirlwind at first, but it turns into an attitude when the political will is expressed behind it and it is supported by programmes, with cooperation in northeastern Estonia. There, too, the labelling of schools and kindergartens in Estonian and Russian must be stopped; by means of regulation and cooperation, all of them must be turned into Estonian and, with force, instilled in that the environment, the social network, is what unites society. What does that mean? Of course, in kindergarten it is possible to learn the language more easily and quickly, but in upper secondary school it is hopelessly too late. Not hopelessly, however, an apology! It's just too late to get a real fundamental result in social unification, study success, life prospects. This should be done particularly quickly in kindergarten, but also in primary school. High school is not enough, basic school may have to be the place of the greatest effort, where society takes these steps, so that we do not produce lost generations, leaving them somewhere in the waves: all right, in kindergarten, we try harder, but not in primary school. It would still produce these same lost generations of Russian-speaking people. I agree with the assessment that we did not deliberately write in this draft, that five years is enough to achieve a final break in society. In five years, this can be done and progress can be achieved as early as the first year. Of course, it also means drawing up development plans, including development plans for schools, which means setting up groups to prepare teaching methods, that is, selecting methodologies, working together in society at large, including parents. This also means developing school democracy, because there are stories about school democracy in Russian-speaking schools, which have been confirmed by experts. In summary, I hope that this hall will vote with increased social pressure and more in-depth expertise and will vote as most have said in this Chamber: the education system must be made into Estonian immediately from kindergarten and it will take a maximum of five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U41	Before the round of questions, I would remind you that we are listening to two presentations today. Each member of the Riigikogu can submit one oral question to each of the rapporteurs, the delegates of the political groups and committees take part in the negotiations and then the final vote follows. Question one. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U42	Good manager! Good waitress! You were Minister of Education for a year and a half. Today you mentioned you sensed there was nothing you could do. But your party led the Estonian state for 16 years, and the ministers of the IRL were in the ministerial role for seven years. And now when you're in opposition, you come up with a bill that you should do. Why didn't you do it when you had all the power? And what were you told during that year and a half when you were Minister of Education, why can't you do that? As Minister of Education, you had the right ideas, and you had the power for a long time, but you see, nothing could be done. Please explain this!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U43	Thank you. My dear Peter! You were able to listen to me for 17 minutes, and the first third of that time I took the blame personally, as a party and as a collection of it. We did not overlook the problem for 16 to 17 years, but rather for a quarter of a century as a society, as a legislator, as politicians, as citizens. We did not perceive this as a problem to be solved. I really don't want to talk so much about my person, but I can repeat: it was not brought to the Ministry of Education as a problem to be solved in the Minister's office. Never did this come up as a serious programmatic topic at meetings. The system of meetings was also rather poor, because the Ministry and the whole ministerial network were located in Tartu and the minister was mainly located in Tallinn. There may have been a communication disturbance, but in any case, this issue was not raised during this year and a half. I also recalled that the Fatherland, which promoted reasonable nationalism at the time, held this portfolio for seven years, shares the blame as well. But I also understand why they didn't take practical steps, so it seemed that society wasn't ready. Your previous party was also the one who pushed for this postponement, as well as initiatives from these short-term coalitions that were promised not to be transferred to the Estonian language. I think your party buddies will remember that. They had the briefcase of the Minister of Education in the governments where we were with your party. It was important to fix the delay of the problem, not start solving it. And it was one of the political compromises that we accepted, without realizing that this could be resolved. I don't want to repeat it, but it's not personal or party responsibility, it's social responsibility. The spring winter of 2017 was indeed the time when, in social debates, polls and, if I remember correctly, the human development report published in May also screamedly proved that segregation produces all the vice that we manifest in the worse lives of Russian-speaking people and in the tearing of the social network. The problem starts with the school system and kindergarten system producing two separate societies in Estonia, two separate views. It seemed like the parties were starting to talk differently. I didn't want to highlight it, but still, look up the quotations from the spokesperson for the Sots, someone from the spokesperson, even from the Speaker for the Fatherland in the field of education! How they literally called out what images they used when talking about coming out with that idea! The softest thing was the accusation that it was some kind of pre-election slogan. The problem has been three-quarters of a century, but only reference is made to elections! The Human Development Report helped to change this mentality in society, and I think we can vote today without politicising, without pointing fingers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U44	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U45	Thank you. The issue is serious and needs to be resolved at national level. We are even behind the Latvians in resolving this issue; they are ahead of us in developing a single school. But the situation hasn't changed for the last quarter of a century. In my opinion, Estonian language skills have improved among Russian young people, also in the upper secondary school section. The state has made decisions, and in a number of smaller municipalities, the integrated education system has changed and it works very well. So something has happened, but a decisive step has not been taken. In particular, it can be seen in larger municipalities. In Tallinn, for example, it is still promised that the school leaders will not meet the language requirements and will not comply with them. But how are universities prepared for this change, and what expenditure must be made in the education system, including in the field of higher education, so that they can switch to the Estonian language?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U46	Thank you, I have been talking about a more specific subject here. Some of my older friends from the Rectors have resigned for one reason or another, and so I cannot talk about higher education in general, but I have spoken to the Rector of Tallinn University. I think their readiness, their will and their understanding are very great. After all, they specialize mainly in teacher training. It seems that universities, too, still need a political signal that politicians are no longer messing with each other, and now the bull has to be taken by the horns. At the same time, universities are believed to be better than all of us and read these texts with a much more academic look than we are here. But teacher training is a very important issue, and once again the executive has those horns that should be grasped.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U47	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will continue on this very subject of teachers. The whole issue of this draft decision is very important. That's what I think everyone in this Chamber is saying. I have realised that there are no legal obstacles; we could make Estonia's initial and school education a common and Estonian language. But there are practical problems. One problem is that if we want to make this transition within five years, it still requires an increase in the number of Estonian teachers. Can you guys open up a little bit about how this is supposed to happen? You say it's an executive issue, but how much really does it take? Is there a necessary number of people? I understand that this means a lot of job opportunities for mature people, and we can expect that in ten years' time, artificial intelligence will do the job, but still. How will this five-year transition be ensured in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U49	Thank you. It seems that trust in artificial intelligence must be overcome when it comes to human relations and education in general. Certainly, the influence of a fellow species on a person's consciousness is stronger than that of a machine. Or I mean not so much strength as precision. Human contact is something that needs to be revived. A recent survey in Finland also confirms that we must not simply rely on IT or a new study approach. The decline in these learning outcomes is closely related to this hope. The Finnish education system is no better than ours in terms of results. What is to be done is another question of expertise, and it is not possible to carry out expert analyses in this Chamber. I have read the words of one authority who says that a single school system is 30% cheaper or more sustainable. And this sustainability must also be reflected in the more sustainable use of teachers. Speaking of this agenda, from the times of my Minister of Education, I remember that the studies that reached my desk in 2016 apologize for using this word, I did not like this bureaucratic expression at all, brought the problem to my consciousness until then. In fact, language skills have improved very persistently. It is now said that Estonian language skills in Russian school have dramatically improved. The number of teachers is rather very high, but their burden is low. This refers to the possibility of optimising work if students were to learn more committedly, with a better attitude and under the hands of more professional teachers. 54% of teachers only work at full time. Of course, the school network is far too big. I mean square meters and fixed costs at school. Of course, schools may not be close. In the case of low-level or diffuse settlements, this is also the task of optimising what to deal with. All in all, I believe that, from the point of view of economics and also of human exploitation, as well as from the point of view of quality, the proposed solution is one of the proposals that we could take as an opportunity to make better use of our resources, particularly the spiritual ones on which it was a question. It is not so much a lack of resources as a better use of resources. But what is missing must be resolved by cooperation. There are different programmes for this, different projects such as 'Youth School'. My language would go to a knot if I started listing them, but these initiatives, which the state also supports, will drag people back to education, even temporarily. And there are people who speak Estonian. After all, there has been far too little going on the road for higher education to think that teacher education should not require the five-year cycle required by master's studies, but may be an additional programme for those who have some other kind of education. It is sufficient to requalify, even temporarily, for a shorter period of time. This is a well-rounded approach on how to alleviate teacher deficits. Unfortunately, the biggest shortage of teachers is actually in the real world. At the same time, with their results, the Russians are mostly left behind in these substances.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U50	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! You rightly pointed out that, in fact, the concern expressed in this draft decision is that the executive power should be removed. You, as former Minister of Finance, have certainly been following the work of the current Minister in this area. Have we moved closer to the objective that is the content of this draft decision, or are we far removed from it? And the second question, too. You mentioned that you have been negotiating with representatives of the various political groups in Parliament. Do you have any idea how the Fatherland could behave today? I mean that the Fatherland brought a matter of the same importance to the debate in this hall, but if it was possible to actually support this solution, I am thinking of the proposal to change the budget for next year, then the voices of the Fatherland disappeared. What could be the position of the Fatherland today, as variable as it may be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U52	Thank you. I have had contacts with members of the various political groups, I have preferred the group leaders, i.e. they better express the position of the group. I'm still hopeful. What's been is what's been. But I am now only seeing Viktoria from the Isamaa Group in the Chamber, who was the carrier of this topic here. I remember his words that it was very difficult for him to report it, but he bravely reported it, and I hope he will ensure these voices. Hey, guys, come on, Estonians, get out of the bush! Let's stick together and unite our society! I have no reason to believe that the EKRE will disappear, I have no reason to believe that the Free Party will disappear, and I have no reason to believe that the soups will disappear. I have been told by my good friend Evgeni without irony, we have in many ways been very understanding colleagues, also at the level of the government, that this can really be done now. But what he said in 2017 was pretty scary. That avalanche of shapes he then pinned on us... I have it fixed somewhere, but Google will find it too. He's said he had to say that then, but now I think he's mentally behind it. Too many inconveniences for anyone are not written into this text. The hard end is still in the hands of the government that Evgeny has. So I believe the voices will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U53	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U54	Good chairman of the sitting! Good group chairman! Today's Postimees writes that only a small part of the graduates of Russian-language schools will continue their studies in Estonian-language higher education institutions and this will affect the competitiveness of our economy as a whole through the labour market. How do you assess the impact of the transition to education in Estonian at upper secondary school level in 2012 so far? And two: would the planned change help to increase the number of Russian-language children entering Estonian higher education institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U55	Thank you. The answer to the last question is, of course, that is the key to getting to higher education. The sooner Estonian language and co-education, the sooner a common social network is built, the better. After all, the main message of the Human Development Report is, and this is confirmed by a doctoral thesis, that segregation is getting worse and that over the years it has become worse. And think of all the conclusions we've made here even after the Bronze Night! Nothing has changed, even though it should have sobered everyone's head. But we didn't hit anyone, we thought it was just a question of a TV channel. Well, I didn't think so, but I didn't know better than that. So, yeah, it's one of the main factors that determines whether a college gets here at all. One small step, however, was taken, but this compromise, this 60: 40 systems were not agreed until 2012 when I was in the government too. Those Russians who have reached such a gymnasium have had a much better destiny than those who have not reached it for one reason or another because of the social network, the example that their parents offer them with their education and social networks. You can still do it in high school. In October, I saw a gymnasium student performing, a Russian girl living in a Russian-speaking environment in Jõhvi. He had come to the gymnasium in quite a few languages, but he took the floor in Estonian; he had adapted. Motivation, will, powers existed. But how many of these young people reach the gymnasium is a bit sad. We would like to get more, but there is a separate segregation here: vocational schools are much more frequent for Russians, either forced or by example, than for Estonians. We wouldn't want this, we wouldn't want a higher percentage of vocational education in just one nation and we'd like more Russians to study in higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U56	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We have already talked about the lack of teachers, but the second issue is the lack of good textbooks and other educational materials. I remember these discussions when I was still in the other party and when we were talking about the transition to the 40-60 system. Even then, I felt that it was too late for me to switch to Estonian in upper secondary school; it did not bring good results. Rather, you should start teaching Estonian from kindergarten. Then we talked about teaching the Estonian language, not about the transition to education in Estonian. Has this proposal been examined as to whether any progress has been made? How far have we come with the preparation of textbooks and other materials, and how can we speed this problem up in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U58	Thank you. One very principled political attitude has been that schools and teachers are very autonomous in their choice of textbooks, that Estonia contributes to the same educational material and not even prepares separate teachers for Russian-speaking schools. If we are still talking about a common social network, then this whole information room, the stem texts, books, pictures even, could be more or less the same, regardless of the native language of the students. It's the only way we'll get a more united society. A separate question, although it is a secondary issue for me, is that the Russians must have a deeper teaching of their mother tongue and the teaching of Russian literature. However, this must not be an alternative to common learning. In the case of learning assets, it should be stressed that if, in general, there should be scepticism about any digital assets or digital learning, it will produce far worse results than expected, as an alternative, or as a support in the Russian-speaking environment, I think they are very good. We should stress that digital, IT is something where barriers can be broken, also in language environments. Teaching can be made graphic, exciting for children, and also affordable for the teacher. Such educational material and such training, I think, is very capable of breaking language and social barriers, including in North-East Estonia. In north-east Estonia digital learning could be forcefully and effectively imposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U59	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U60	Thank you. Good waitress! I want to refer to the subject that you touched on in your previous reply. Indeed, children with Russian language need to have confidence that they can learn Russian grammar and literature in their own language. When you went to the Committee on Culture to present this draft, you also indicated that the situation in Ida-Virumaa should be treated differently and that specific programmes for teaching there should be drawn up. I think when every paradigm change is done without fear or fear being grounded, things will come out better and everyone will be better. It is good to sense that society as a whole has taken on the transition to education in Estonian very well. How, though, can you reassure or encourage the ministers and schoolkeepers of Ida-Virumaa so that they would rather come along with this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U61	Thank you. Well, who wants to, it actually realizes that this whole proposal has been built up, if not to believe in parties, then perhaps the human development report, in the interests of the Russians themselves, to ensure that the social network is connected and that they are better able to pass through, better life, better health, a job and a place of residence. We are not talking about the interests of Estonians at all. The second thing is that the Russians will probably be more loyal to the government either way. I am not saying that they believe that state power is always what we consider power here. They may have in mind the power of another country when blood is very thick. But in general, they still expect our country to be committed and to be alerted to what comes with this signal. If we consider the interests of the Russians, if we explain our political choice, and if the groups on the side of the window go and tell their voters, among whom there are more Russian-speaking people than we, that you know, this change will be good for you, and we all want to be good for you, it will work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U62	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U63	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! What would you say to the Estonian people in places where Russian day care centres and Russian schools are no longer present? How does this matter affect these Estonian people, for example in your constituency in Järva and Viljandi?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U64	Oh, if I knew how to help those who don't have a problem! To cause them another problem and to deal with it is a normal political response. But I believe that the Estonian people will get a friendly and more united country everywhere. Yes, it can be said that there is no problem in Viljandi and Paide and in all the smaller settlements in this area just because there is no Russian school issue and there is no Russian kindergarten issue. Rather, there is any other individual approach on the agenda, where real pedagogy can be dealt with. Yes, people are different and people must be approached differently, but not in the sense that different nationalities should be approached differently in one small country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U65	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! We have noticed the activities of both parties and certain NGOs in the direction that this draft, which we are discussing here, could never be adopted so that people using Russian as a domestic language would not be able to understand Estonian. But it seems to me personally that the legislator is perhaps a little late, given the reaction of these people themselves and their desire to put children in Estonian-language schools or in Estonian-language kindergartens. Please tell me, why have some political parties and these organisations wanted to torpedo this very sensible proposal? I am thinking precisely that the knowledge of the national language clearly ensures a better income, health, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U67	Thank you. I say one NGO that opposes it, and so does the Prime Minister, instead of 'in Estonian', speak 'of language learning' here. This NGO is the Centre Party. But I think this current knowledge, academic support, and community spirit will certainly make them think. Whether to vote against or to disappear from the hall, if this bill is voted on, I think they need to consider it carefully. It is now a fact that the Russians live in Estonia because of the party's efforts in the one-party system. If, however, in worse cases, 70% of the Russians' voices are collected, it is an addictive disease. I understand these Russians also have to have their own representation, but they could actually get rid of the one-party system. The second non-profit is a party interest, and I am not talking about party interest; I am not going to compete on behalf of those souls who currently believe in the one-party system of the Russian School in Estonia. I have read all kinds of papers and received a brief that most of us have not received, and I can say that it is a serious organization, but, fortunately, not with very strong influence. I would like to highlight two programmes that actually helped raise education in Estonian in 2017. One was 'Krillitsas Estonia', where we heard the Russians want to do it. We didn't know who the Russian was talking there. The second programme was 'Clean Mouth', where the subject was dealt with directly and where one part of the hall was still completely distinguished. These people tended to be NGO Russian School in Estonia. I don't know where they've grown, but all of their nature was seen as rejection and closure. But all in all, it convinced me that if some of these different people think otherwise, but most believe that it really should be done, then society is ready. And those who aren't ready don't matter anymore. They just have to be taken as opponents.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U68	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U69	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In your speech, you referred several times to actions and words, to following words. My question: on 25 October we discussed the amendment of the language law here, did the Reform Party not consider this change to be important for the protection of the Estonian language? For what other to conclude than that of your party, only Madis Milling, who was also a co-author of the draft, voted in favour of it being dismissed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U70	Oh, thank you! That's a good question! It's like there's no content, but pointing a finger at how much. Once I mentioned words and actions because there was a reason. Here, there was a key national issue on the agenda, which all the speakers admitted to the problem during the debate. One of them did it rather by explaining his personal position, but it was sympathetic, and it came from the heart, I mean Aadu Black. It's like sticking to it. The nuances of specific legislative changes I do not identify by date, but it seems that this was a relatively opportunistic campaign over the hall, focusing on some sort of increase in fines. I don't remember all the arguments, but at the time, it was quite the feeling that perhaps these fines are not the main one, especially for the party that has signed the coalition agreement, which provides for extra money to preserve the Russian-speaking school. This may not be in line with the mentality from which we should discuss education in Estonian. Yes, this fine issue can also be discussed and one can look at what the other arguments of this draft are, but as far as I can remember, there is nothing to brag about, Tarmo.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U71	Please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U72	Dear Jürgen Ligi! In order for the new system to be operational successfully, it is necessary to eliminate the hotspots. Clearly, one point of pain is the lack of teachers on the one hand and teachers in Russian schools on the other. What would be your message to them about how this system will function in the future? It's about them, too. Secondly, you have talked about this, but I would like to stress once again, just in case, that it is important to make a system such that a child from a Russian-speaking family does not lose his Russian language skills while studying in Estonian school. And I myself think it would be possible not to lose it if Estonian schools had Russian lessons as an elective. The third point of pain is, in my opinion, that there are the fears of Russian families, Russian parents. They fear what happens if they do not speak Estonian well enough. Could there also be courses at schools that could also provide education in Estonian to parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U73	Thank you. It was the easiest thing to remember that last question. But adult education has also gone through these discussions. I mean, you can do that, but is it at the schools? Language learning is a slightly different dimension. We should not bury the subject of language learning in Estonian. It's unfortunately wanted to be done here. Parents must overcome their concern that they lose their children, whether by using Estonian language courses or I don't know, there are all kinds of great initiatives, such as Estonian-language houses. But one point of pain is the teachers. You'd still have to inspire everyone to listen, you're waiting to learn from the kids. You're not saying you can't learn. It's not about motivation, it's not about attitude, it's not about picking up. All adults are actually able to do much more than a clear signal is currently being made when there is no clear decision. In my experience, I can assure you that it is possible to shape myself very quickly when speaking a foreign language when it comes to coping and a major upheaval. This decision could be the beginning of a major upheaval. And teachers should potentially be the best learners, even if they're not very young. In the case of teachers, of course, it should be taken into account that perhaps the most serious problem in our education apart from these two systems is precisely the age of teachers. One thing is a natural rotation, the need for which is also greater in Russian schools, based on the conclusions of a recent doctoral thesis. Russian school teachers tend to be older, their secondary growth is even worse than in Estonian schools. Russian school teachers are older than Estonian school teachers, but this is also a major problem in Estonian schools. So better resource use is one possible relief; changing attitudes is another. Anyone who teaches children, whether parents or teachers, should start learning the language themselves. It's possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U74	Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U75	Thank you. Dear waitress, In the early days of the Republic of Estonia, school laws emphasized that school education must be in the mother tongue. For example, the 1920 Public Primary Schools Act said that primary schools are divided into Estonian, German, Russian, Swedish and other languages according to the pupils' mother tongue and that the pupils' native language is counted for their nationality. And the law of public secondary schools also said that public secondary school is in its mother tongue and that native language is thought of as a student nationality. You are the person who knows everything, including as former Minister of Education, about education. Tell me, why did they want to do this in their time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U76	Thank you. You're asking the wrong person for me who knows everything doesn't exist. At the moment, there is a person in the Riigikogu who does not know most of the things. If the answer to this question should be considered, history is known that German and Russian dominations were broken at the time. The Estonians had already gained a very clear advantage in society and the Estonian language had to be established, but at the same time it was believed that opportunities could be offered to others. Of course, all of this code could be taken apart as sticks and found out how long those attitudes lasted. Basically, however, a strong German community remained, as did the Jewish community, evidently expressed in the language of instruction. However, if Europe is to be taken more broadly, in this century, this attitude, or even attitude, tends to prevail everywhere, but it is a law that is not very much debated that public-funded schools must be national. All the nuances that this entails are, as a general rule, based on local exceptions, but no one doubts that society can best be combined with the education system and learning together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U77	Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U78	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Please confirm once again that this amendment will not deprive our fellow citizens in other languages of their cultural and linguistic space, that they will have the opportunity to continue learning their native language as an elective, for example, and that the current faculty will also have enough time to retrain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U79	Thank you. There is no great doubt that sufficient time will be given for retraining. Seriously, I think teachers are very dedicated learners when they are given this responsibility and they want it inside themselves. In this media age, and especially with alternative digital learning, you can adapt quite quickly, not to mention within five years. And in any case, some sort of optimization will come. There is no point in keeping separate and putting together a new picture. If only 54% of teachers work full-time, then it is clear that there is room for optimization. 'No one left behind' could be a round slogan, but everyone has to want to come along, and then society gets better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U80	Aivar Surva.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U81	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Of course, this is a very important issue, and as a native virumaan, I support it in any case. Schoolkeepers actually play a major role. As an elder in the rural municipality of Mäetaguse, I managed to turn Mäetaguse Estonian-Russian comprehensive school into an Estonian-language primary school. This is precisely because a consensus was reached in the council that it was found to be reasonable. There are about a third of Russian-speaking people beyond the hill, and more than 80% in Ida-Virumaa as a whole. Once there was talk of desperation. How can Ida-Viru's large city councils be reached with this desperation, many of whom do not speak Estonian themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U82	Thank you. It's great to hear a man from the field and from the mountain and from the mountain! I did not know very well how this initiative had succeeded on the ground. I'm glad to hear that. Actually, we could know each other's past better, but you and I have only been colleagues for a few months. Apparently, Ida-Virus is about knowing how to do all this, more than in this hall in general. But there's a signal in this hall that I've been talking about when I'm referring to a certain mental loyalty of power. The parties have a huge responsibility here: what they do right, whether they still contribute to the voices that say that listen, our rights are being violated, or whether they contribute to those who say that our interests are being protected, to us, to a better future. This is a very large difference of attitude that can already be demonstrated when candidates are invited and voting in the Riigikogu. But, yeah, how do we get to specific leaders in the East Virus? Some have to get to the kapo and they have, some can get to the party and throw them out or let them step out. Such methods also exist, but in general they must still touch well. However, power must state its will, political parties must state their will, as well as experts. I also highlight the President of our Republic here. His contribution to this work has been extremely valuable. He has pissed some people off with his positivity, but I think he has brought Estonia closer to Ida-Viru County. A fresh party leader, or was it a fresh minister? It has said that do not poke Northeast Estonia with your NATO. I don't agree with that. On the contrary, NATO, as well as a military culture, can shape mentality and wash your senses in a positive way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U83	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I now call on Toomas Jürgenstein, a member of the Committee on Culture, to prepare the microphone. The duration of the report shall be up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U84	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of what happened in the Commission. The Commission discussed this issue on 15 November, so two weeks and a little longer ago. He led Aadu Black and I'm going to read out who was there because there were alternates. Jürgen Ligi as alternate members of Laine Randjärv, Heidy Purga, Krista Aru, Yoko Alender, Toomas Jürgenstein and Priit Sibul as alternate members of Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa. For the sake of accuracy, I note that Viktoria was present at the beginning and asked a question, but Priit Sibul voted. There was no Heljo Pikhof and no Thomas Väinaste. The Riigikogu's decision to 'Proposal the Government of the Republic to make Estonia's initial and school education uniform and Estonian' was discussed. First of all, Jürgen Ligi gave an overview of the draft and the subject. Maybe I'm not gonna go over it again because we got a full review of it a few minutes ago. A number of questions at the time have also sounded in this Chamber today, but I will still mention the questions that have been put in the Commission. First, Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits asked about the same question that she asked five minutes ago. It was about the fears of Russian school teachers. He stressed that Russian language and culture training should definitely remain a elective for Russian children. Jürgen Ligi agreed that, of course, the possibility of learning Russian language and culture separately is necessary and should be dealt with centrally. At the same time, he stressed the importance of the example of teachers. They could set an example by learning around. At the same time, as noted here in the saalisk, many teachers are elderly and retraining is not so easy. I asked if the decision concerned international IB studies and schools with French or English inclinations. I was thinking, on the one hand, of IB's instruction in English, on the other hand, of English College and French Lyceum, which, of course, has a lot of language lessons, but also some other subjects are taught in a foreign language. Jürgen Ligi replied that international schools and special schools are separate phenomena and are not covered by this draft. Krista Aru communicated the position of the Estonian Free Party Group. He supported the view that this issue must first be decided in principle and that the details that were also discussed in the Commission should be dealt with later. Yoko Alender pointed out possible legal obstacles to uniting early childhood education. He agreed with Krista Aru that the details are not important at the moment. According to Jürgen Ligi, the language requirement of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act on early childhood education is probably one of those that needs to be changed during the transition to a common Estonian language. I looked up, indeed, in § 8 of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act, it is stated that the language of pre-school children's institution is Estonian unless the local government council decides otherwise. Krista Aru expressed the opinion that the regions are different and that decisions should take account of the situation in each region. And it also went through the Commission several times that Ida-Virus primarily, but probably also Maardus and Lasnamägi do not work on models that operate in Pärnu, Tartu or Paide. We also discussed amendments, two of them. The first was the norm proposal of the Estonian Reform Party, which we considered in essence, and the second was the norm proposal of the Committee on Culture, which we fully took into account. The amendments concerned the title and part of the text of the draft. According to the new title of the draft proposal, Estonia's initial and school education is proposed to be uniform and in Estonian, while the text of the draft proposal proposes to organise the transition to Estonian-language education. The amendment was editorially adapted to the title. In the Commission, it was decided by consensus that the first amendment will be taken into account in substance and in full from the second. We also made procedural decisions to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 4 December, to appoint Toomas Jürgenstein as rapporteur and to propose a final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U85	The round of questions begins at Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U86	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good co-rapporteur! We listened to a thorough basic presentation, but the frame of questioning was narrow. I didn't understand the whole plan, though. I ask you: did the rapporteur in the Commission also present their real implementation plan? What will happen if the Riigikogu hall decides that we will send the draft to second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U87	No, no, it's not going to second reading. Today is the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U88	Dear waitress, thank you very much. No further questions for you. I am opening negotiations with representatives of political groups or committees. Peter Ernits, do you want to make a statement from the Commission or a group? The EKRE faction? Yes, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U89	I am sorry, but I do not think the representative of the Commission said, which was the exact position of the Commission. Can we go over that again?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U90	The basic position was, as I remember, that the draft was going to the final vote. And that should be enough, everyone voting according to their level of knowledge... Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U91	Thank you. This could be enough if it were clear what the Commission's position on this draft was. Did the Commission support this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U92	That position, yes, was not heard. Toomas Jürgenstein, would you like to explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U93	Now I'm a little embarrassed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U94	Can it be concluded that the Commission did not form a position?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U95	I trust my paper. Everything on paper, I read it. My own memory is selective, I'm not so sure about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U96	The Commission's advisor confirms in writing that the Commission's position was not formulated. This does not diminish the possibility of going to the final vote. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U97	Thank you, manager. I am forced to ask over what is the Commission's proposal for a large Chamber in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U98	The Commission's proposal was brought to you by Toomas Jürgenstein: it is a final vote on the draft decision. But there's still a little time to go. Please, as the representative of the EKRE Group, Mr Ernits. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U99	I can just read a sentence from the minutes of the Committee on Culture, I don't know if that's enough. We decided to amend the text of the draft text as we had amendments and to formulate it as follows: 'To the Government of the Republic, we propose to organise the conversion of Estonia's initial and school education into a single and Estonian language. " Everyone was in favour of this proposal by the Committee on Culture. That was the decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U100	We have two amendments and we will review them a little later. For the third time, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U101	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. First of all, the EKRE Group supports this proposal. However, I would point out that this is a deeply populist undertaking. The Reform Party was in the power coalition for 17 years and nothing was done in this area as the Prime Minister's party for 12 years. Let me remind you: in the hands of the present Fatherland, the portfolio of the Minister of Education has been in the hands of the Reform Party for 12 years, in the hands of the Reform Party for just under two years, in the hands of Jürgen Ligi for a year and a half, in the hands of the Social Democrats for one year and in the hands of the Centre Party for three years. And so far, if nothing has been done and you come up with it now, if you don't have power, then it's deeply populist. The idea is God's right, but I remind you, it takes a lot of time to prepare teachers. All this time has been missed. If you believe Jürgen Ligi's words, they didn't realize how serious it was when they were in power. When he was a minister, the officials never told him that he should start resolving the situation. I ask: what is the real power of the political minister? Isn't that really power? So the whole story is very short: EKRE supports this bill, but this whole background smells really bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U102	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Andres Herkel. Jürgen Ligi, the line? You're right to do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U103	Thank you. Since my name was ringing, I would say that I have absolutely no suspicion of EKRE in populism, I have never suspected, and I strongly support his support for this bill. However, I do not support the EKRE much after it has been explained all too personally how society has actually changed its attitude to this reform and how responsibility has been assumed personally as a party and as the entire Riigikogu for denying and ignoring this problem. If the EKRE continues this line, so that all debates are avoided, it will be opposed to everyone, then next time I will say worse about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U104	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be more peaceful and not provoke a counterword. As the representative of Mr Ligi's initiators, he stressed here that this is perhaps the most important policy at all, which is currently on the agenda. And for 25 years, the subject was avoided. Mr. Nearly even a bit of a jurgenly spilled ash on his head, explaining why the Estonian education system has not developed as if it could have evolved to overcome this educational segregation. However, quite a lot has happened in 25 years. Breaking peaks in the introduction of Estonian-language upper secondary school education really lasted a very long time, it was actually the first line. And we all know what kind of political power, being in the government, but also in opposition, was fiercely opposed to these goals as well. As a general attitude and goal, making school education into Estonian is certainly the right and necessary step, but it is also important to talk about the details of the changeover. I do not agree at all that the details are not important, but the order could indeed be such that we make this decision first and when the political decision has been made, it is the Government of the Republic who deals with the details: where the teachers come from, how the transition takes place in Narva, Tallinn, Nõmme, Tallinn, Lasnamäe, what is the role of the local authorities, what are the tasks of the state, how it all happens. There is certainly a great deal of detail about this change and it is important to keep a reasonable eye on it. I certainly want to say one thing to all those who are watching this session, especially to the less experienced members of the Riigikogu, who are not very familiar with the procedure for adopting a draft decision. We are now in a situation where we have been presented with a draft decision, and there is probably quite a consensus that there will be no vote against it. But, ladies and gentlemen, in order that this draft decision really turns into a binding decision on the Government of the Republic and does not fall out of the procedure, it is necessary that there should be at least 51 votes in favour. I know that many members of the Riigikogu may have other tasks to perform and some people are missing for a reason, but all those in the house I ask you to come to this final vote so that there is no such hypocritical situation that everyone supports everyone in the Commission, but the bill does not go through. So that's the call I have. And one final remark. Yes, we talk a lot about Estonian-language school education, and that is all right, but I also stress the other side of the wording of the draft text. The aim is to make Estonia's initial and school education uniform and Estonian. I think the word'single' is as important as 'in Estonian'. This educational segregation must end, which is not only reflected in linguistic aspects, but also carries elements of ideological segregation. This is ultimately the worst for Estonian society in the long term. This is about social cohesion, about loyalty to the state. In the end, I fully agree that a person who does not acquire an Estonian-language and pro-Estonian uniform education, but has some other kind of education, is less likely to succeed in this society. The Free Party Group undoubtedly supports the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U106	Yoko Alender, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U107	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, who are watching this important debate in the Chamber! We need very good news in Estonia. We need initiatives, we need a vision and a target to show all Estonian people that a better future awaits them. We need this better future. We want to feel that every day we create it together, because only those who want to harm us will benefit from division. By the way, I recommend listening to President Toomas Hendrik Ilves' lecture on a subject that threatens us as a society in a way that we have never been threatened before. Why there was no reform of Estonian education, historians may discuss it. But politicians have also tried to analyze it. I feel that it is time for our generation to contribute equally to those who did many reforms in the 1990s and later. It is time to take an important step towards a more coherent Estonia. A common education system is an issue of equal opportunities and integration. As long as we keep a part of society in another language and information space, integration has failed. The Human Development Report states: the state selects children three years into parallel worlds and wonders that integration is not working. Thus, re-creating from kindergarten to inequality, which persists in further education, housing and workplace choices, and even affects life expectancy. Now we want to take action. The experts have made clear recommendations in the Human Development Report. The people have also expressed their support. Praxis integration monitoring confirms that about 70% of the population, including the so-called "native-language" people, support the teaching of Estonian from kindergarten onwards. For the time being, however, there is no overall easy and logical way to reach this. The share of children with other mother tongues in Estonian-language schools has steadily increased, currently around 20% and about 25% in immersion schools. So this means that less than 60%, about 57% of these children go to Russian school. Who, after all, cares for equal opportunities for these children? We know that Russian-speaking families with a better socio-economic background, who strongly support the educational motivation and success of their children, decide to put their children in an Estonian-language school. Many voters have also asked me whether there has been enough debate about whether society is ready for this change. Specialists have been studying the problems of language-based education for years. In 2015, this large integration monitoring of Praxis was carried out, which I quoted. Perhaps for the first time there, the support of Russian families themselves to study together was confirmed and a great deal of attention. In 2017, the Human Development Report clearly formulated the need for a transition to a common education system. We discussed it right here in this Chamber, it was discussed in the media, in the public at all. In the run-up to the local elections in 2017, the Reform Party proposed to start Estonian-language early childhood education in Tallinn, together studying in kindergarten. At first, the other parties were confused, but the more specialists and public support for the idea was heard, the more the idea came along. Unfortunately, there has been no real action in the capital. Rather, Russian-speaking education has been made more isolated in one or two regions. However, there has been a lively debate. A number of discussions were also held at the opinion festival in this summer. A few thoughts. The Deputy Head of the Analysis Department of the Ministry of Education confirmed that statistics show that early language learning is effective, and therefore more and more Russian parents decide to put their children in an Estonian-language kindergarten or immersion group. His choice was that, too, and he said he was pleased. The head of the Integration Foundation, Irene Käosaar, pointed out that when it comes to mother tongue skills and the sense of identity, the family has a key role to play, the school can play a supportive role. There was also a lot of talk here about the fact that we must also ensure that children in other languages are taught their mother tongue in a common education system. But 75% of Russian parents want their children to learn Estonian. 80% of all parents feel that it is perfectly normal for less than half of the students in the class to have other native - language children. There is no compulsion here. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U108	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U109	'This is a simple thing that everyone understands. ' It was a quote from the President of the Republic, Kersti Kaljulaid. Jürgen Ligi already touched on his contribution to this debate. In the Riigikogu, we have had a working group together such as the working group on the basis of population policy, where there really was a broad debate. In view of population policy, it was considered necessary to emphasise the need to start the transition to a common education system, as this is a social and economic issue. Estonia needs every person. As a country, we must allow every one of our people to exploit their potential in the best possible way. The development plan for the Estonian language area states that nearly 40% of students with other native languages who have graduated from primary school cannot successfully continue education or go to work due to poor Estonian language skills. A common Estonian-language kindergarten and school, which would prepare students equally for further studies or work, would help to alleviate the inequalities arising from lower language skills, as stated in the Human Development Report. If we are now talking about today's vote, it is possible to show in the Fatherland that they are in favour of education in Estonian, even though they opposed it at second reading of the state budget. However, the Centre Party can prove that the promise of their Chairman, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, that if the wrong man makes the right proposal, it will not go unsupported. This is an important draft, which really allows a major reform to start, which will make it more coherent, better for the whole of Estonia by offering more equal opportunities. I ask you to use your mandate and to trust the government by proposing to it to start this important reform. The Reform Party, of course, supports the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, There's still some time to negotiate. Priit Sibul, please, on behalf of the Isamaa Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U111	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a different story on the remote before me. Different political parties, politicians, ministers have been accused of either doing something or failing to do something. But I would like to share the joy of the fact that many political parties have spoken on this subject today. I admit that when the Reform Party came up with this proposal in 2017 before the elections, I was rather skeptical, too. I think the most important thing right now is that we do not create fear for anyone and achieve the goal that people who speak Russian as their mother tongue can cope in Estonian society and have the same place as everyone else. As stated in the Human Development Report, we have a mixed education system, and unfortunately young people who do not speak the official language do not have the same opportunities in society as people who speak the Estonian language. This is an important issue that we need to address. And when I thought, some time ago, personally, that this was a problem in some parts of Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa, it is also a problem in my town of Valga, where there is still a Russian nursery and Russian secondary school. I went there a few years ago in October or November and, unfortunately, I met quite a few people who understood the Estonian language. And I mean, if we haven't been able to solve this problem in Valga, it's really difficult to do it in Ida-Virumaa. I seriously do not believe that there is a single solution that would eliminate this problem in the same way in Sillamäe, Narva, Lasnamäe and Valgas. We are a small country, but our municipalities, schools and communities are very different. In this way there must also be different deadlines and solutions for how to switch to the Estonian-language education system, using methods. But it is certainly important, as I have already said, that the parties have started to talk about this. In my opinion, political consensus is now the most important thing. This also requires that resources be found for the implementation of the idea. Indeed, unfortunately, this has not been a political priority so far, and we still have to deal with this issue now, 27 years after independence. I very much hope that, even if nothing happens in the near future, this political debate will bring us solutions during the next government. I repeat, we cannot find quick solutions. Paide decided some time ago that during the Coalition of the Centre Party and the Fatherland, there would be a transition to Estonian-language education, but it is clear that such decisions cannot be made in some places. However, I hope that more and more of these decisions will be made, and that we will also provide support from the state, so that teachers in Estonian will also get into Russian schools, so that the children of these schools can have proper learning systems and support. This is the way to solve this problem. Hopefully in ten years, no one in this remote control will have to talk about this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U112	Are there no more requests for speech? Yes, it is! On behalf of the Black Estonian Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I listened carefully to what was being said today about this important problem. It seemed that they were talking about the shape of the matter, about the content, but more like a cat walking around a hot porridge. There's a little talk about who's for or against, but who's for, not sure. However, there is a positive side to this debate today, and it is strong and strong: the subject, the area is important. They also brought out what one or the other has said. A major problem is, for example, the lack of Russian-language education, the smell of the crisis already exists: the PISA test results are bad. In fact, this crisis is deeper and has far-reaching roots. The crisis is reflected in poor teaching tools and lack of preparation. And the very big question is, indeed, why has so far been like a night of witchcraft, and only now suddenly have we come to a wonderful awakening. The Commission and our group also discussed why no real steps have been taken so far. And what to deny was also discussed who had failed to do something. The initiator of the draft act spoke very interestingly in the Commission about the fact that it was not possible to do much in the past, because there was a coalition and there must be consensus in the coalition. The originator is shaking his head fiercely right now, but he explained to us nicely and humanly that, look, Evgeni didn't promise before, because he was evil, but now he's good, now he's practically half, and now it's possible to do it. In the political group, we also discussed whether something was actually done. I remember that a few years ago we suddenly found that the Ministry of Education and Research had announced a major project, put money to sleep, that programmes and curricula for teaching the Estonian language to Russian schools would be developed, and that was all there was, I don't remember the details. I was impressed with that thing. But when I started to find out how it really happened, it turned out that in reality it was going to happen in a way that the competition had been announced, the money had been allocated, the winner had been found. The winner, who had to solve the problem of teaching the Estonian language in Russian schools, was one of Püssi's flower shops, who received this job on the basis of the contract... Their statutory activity was the sale of plants and fertilisers, but it turns out they also solved the educational problem. If anyone gives a damn about this thing, I'm gonna find those materials again, I've let them sink somewhere in the box. It is depressing that the protection and development of the Estonian language is also part of a surprisingly interesting calendar cycle, namely the election cycle. It is usually clear before the elections that everyone is involved in the development and teaching of the Estonian language. In the meantime, it was said that there were five ministries involved, sometimes some thought seven, some said less. Everyone then reports how they have allocated resources in their administration and are involved in broad-based teaching in Estonian, and quite often it turns out that they are still teaching the same teachers. It is depressing that when speaking about the protection of the Estonian language and the transition to uniform Estonian-language learning, it is very clear that not only the official members of all ministers are seen as wishing to deal with it, but also the political interests. What's bothering me personally about this? I am disturbed by the contribution of the Riigikogu. We can talk about this, organize a level-of-the-art chat room, and I commend the university faculty's experience of today's Reform Party Election Colloquium, which was well done. The topics were excellently presented, the questions were nice and so on. That was really good work. A slightly weaker side, however, is that old peasant wisdom says that the first thing you have to do is to set the tide and then get to work. The way it is now is that for years really nothing had been done... Can I have some more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U114	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U115	...and the situation in which the current government took over this area was pretty depressing. And there's another simple peasant wisdom. The Estonian peasant says that if everyone is talking about the time to start driving home from the fair, one man will have to think about what else to bring to the fair. Or, if you like, antiquity about the same thing: vaccua vasa plirimum sonant. Now I've had eye contact with John, as a military language, we're in a position to say, "Boys, let's go to battle! We don't have any bullets, but let's go have a win-win war, maybe we'll do fine! ' But it was the technical side. In terms of declarations, beautiful declarations! I am not the one in my party who says vote like this, second or third. I would like to emphasise once again: the content is what we have to work for, the form is an awful election face. But everyone decides how he votes. Good luck, good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U116	One group is not speaking, although in the meantime it was loudly heard that there was a take-off. Two amendments to this draft decision have also been tabled, and we will examine them together. The first decision by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the leading commission: to consider the substance. Second amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, decision: take full account. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the draft 682 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of the presence. There are 54 ambassadors. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U117	Thank you. I have both a procedural question and a proposal to take a five-minute break. It was kind of weird. We would have liked five minutes to have everyone in the hall. You set the clock on, and immediately you did the presence check. Do the Rules of Procedure permit such behaviour or must the Rules of Procedure be corrected? The idea of this five-minute break would have been to invite people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U118	Good colleague Ligi! Presence is extremely important, but the main thing is how much he will vote in favour of this proposal for a decision. But five minutes of recess, as requested by the group chairman, has been established. We'll continue at 12.22.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's recheck the presence. Incoming check, please! 67 members of the Riigikogu are present, 34 are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 682, which is a proposal to the Government of the Republic to make Estonia's initial and school education uniform and in Estonian. Please take a stand and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, There were 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 2 against, 2 abstentions, and 15 members of the Riigikogu did not take part in the vote. The proposal was not supported. Before we go to the next item, I will let you know that a proposal has come. The Estonian Centre Party Group proposes to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us begin preparations for voting on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 39 MPs were in favour of the proposal, against 5. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U120	The next item is the presentation on the implementation of legislative policy developments until 2018. I'll give you a quick introduction to the procedure. The report by the Minister of Justice lasts up to 20 minutes. Following questions, a member of the Riigikogu may ask the rapporteur one oral question. After that, there will be negotiations and political group representatives with speeches. Please, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U121	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people, members of the High House! 2018 will be the last year of implementation of current regulatory policies. Let me stress that developments since 2011 have led to a number of positive developments. On the basis of developments, the government has put in place a code of good regulation and regulation and, compared to the time before the implementation of developments, impact analyses have become much more meaningful, stakeholders are more systematically involved and their need is understood, and plans for development have undergone significant developments. If before 2012, the intention to develop was usually a one-section text in which the planned law was simply announced, then the picture has changed considerably over time. It was the Riigikogu's decision on developments in legal policy that gave impetus to positive changes. Now we have to move to a new phase. I would like to point out as a problem that the total number of plans for development has decreased over the last two years, and that their share has also decreased compared to the proposals submitted at the same time. As of the beginning of December this year, just over 100 draft laws have been submitted to the Ministry of Justice for coordination; however, there are just over 20 drafting plans. The aim of the intention to develop, let me stress, is to hold a public debate and analyse all the ways in which the problem is being addressed, and it is important to ask whether the problem can be resolved without changing the law. Thanks to early involvement, the parties involved will be able to contribute to solving the problem. The impact of one or the other solution will be identified and the best solution is expected to be found in the end. Among the reasons for not drawing up plans, the growing number of urgent drafts stands out. In 2017 almost a quarter of all draft laws submitted to the Ministry of Justice for coordination were urgent, i.e. they were not preceded by a development plan. Not all these urgent drafts reached adoption. In retrospect, there is reason to ask whether all these drafts were justified as urgent, as most of them had significant effects. The Ministry of Justice considered the impact analysis of only six drafts to be sufficient; the impact analysis of the rest had to be supplemented or should have been re-submitted. Moreover, only three of all urgent drafts were planned for post- entry into force ex-post evaluation during the preparation of the draft. This amount of urgent drafts last year was undoubtedly also caused by the change of government. However, I dare to predict that, as long as the legislative procedure system does not change in the country, this trend will continue, regardless of which parties are in the government and form a coalition. This year, too, the trend has continued that about one fifth of the urgent drafts have been submitted to coordination. As mentioned above, the quality of impact analyses and the ability to assess impacts improves every year, a positive trend. Firstly, there are, alongside urgent drafts, let me highlight, also positive examples of the assessment of significant impacts. Secondly, the effects are reflected in the explanatory memorandum to all draft laws, the effects of which are not relevant for the purposes of the good legislative and regulatory rules. It is positive that we have a clear impact assessment structure that supports the draft. It is necessary to pay attention to the development of methodological skills in impact analysis. In spring, a large-scale multi-module training programme for 700 policy makers and analysts from public authorities, municipalities and NGOs began in cooperation with Praxis. It also includes training in very specific data analysis methods and tools, alongside more general principles of impact assessment and inclusion. The effects of several major changes have been analysed separately, such as pension fund management fees and the sustainability of national retirement pensions. In-depth analyses were also behind the draft reforms of the parental benefit scheme. However, I would like to emphasise that there could be more such examples of basic research. An important issue to be resolved is the cross-use of databases for complex impact analyses. Consideration should also be given to how to systematise and make available existing studies. As long as there is no review, there is no resource-efficient analysis. Ex-post impact assessments can mostly be considered as plans, as ex-post evaluations under the Good Regulation and the Regulatory Regulation are largely planned from 2020. All ex-post evaluations have been carried out at the Ministry of Finance: analysis of the impact of the increase in excise duties on tobacco and fuel submitted to the Riigikogu, analysis of the government fees for compulsory pension funds, carried out in order to fulfil the ex-post assessment obligation laid down in the Investment Funds Act. In assessing the administrative burden, too, substantial development is still ahead. Over the last three years, the number of plans and drafts to reduce the administrative burden on businesses has increased, and I am talking about the draft legislation. While in 2016 the administrative burden on businesses was almost equal to 18% of both, this year one in five has reduced the administrative burden, but one in seven has increased the administrative burden. The total administrative burden has therefore decreased. There has also been a decline in uncertainty over the years, a situation where there is no information on the change in administrative burdens. A positive example of a declining administrative burden is the intention to develop the Alcohol Act, which was presented to the public consultation in October this year, with the aim of abolishing the Alcohol Register and the dual notification obligation. A detailed administrative burden analysis was already carried out using the standard cost model before the development plan was developed and it was clearly concluded that administrative burden costs would decrease. The administrative burden imposed on citizens with draft laws has fluctuated over the last three years. The conclusions are difficult to draw, but the trend seems to be slightly negative. While in 2016 the burden on 14% of drafts decreased and 3% increased, this year these figures are 13% and 5%. However, it can be argued that the draft legislation reduces rather than increases the administrative burden on citizens. The impact of the draft measures on the public sector's workload has remained stable. However, in my opinion, the word is not in a positive sense here, because the relationship is a cause for concern. The workload is reduced by one in five drafts and increases by one in three and four. In other words, if we reduce the administrative burden on the private sector at a slow pace, but when we look at quantitative indicators, and the administrative burden on citizens also decreases, although at a slower rate than for businesses, the administrative burden on the public sector will increase. Since Estonia is constantly looking for ways to save public expenditure, legislation should reduce the workload of the public sector. Otherwise, a situation could easily arise where the public sector is expanding. Inclusion and impact assessment are the different sides of a single coin. Through this involvement, stakeholders will be informed about the changes affecting them and will in turn provide practical input into impact assessments, which will thus provide important basic information to decision-makers. At the planned stage of development, interest groups are quite widely involved, with 75% in the middle through 80% of cases, and this year this ratio shows a slight upward trend. Although only more formal, or governmental, involvement is still widely used in the draft phase, it can be seen that its share has started to decline in recent years, at just over 50% this year. In almost 25% of cases, it could be understood that involvement was active, stakeholders were consulted and problems were discussed in greater depth before providing solutions. In other cases, efforts were made to involve different channels of information. Problems of compliance with the Constitution and the Statute have been identified by the Ministry of Justice in coordinating the drafts to a quite constant extent over the years. Compliance with the Constitution has been discussed for nearly 10% of the drafts; consistency with the stem laws in the area has not been guaranteed for up to 30% of initiatives. These figures were 7.5% and 24.5% in seven months this year. Honourable representatives of the people! I have stressed that my view of national legislative policy is such that the volume of legislation in the country must decrease. The central cornerstone is, in reality, that the legislator must formulate clear expectations for the government (in the future for governments) as a representative of the people and must be a guide, setting clear and rigid frameworks where necessary. The end of this year will also end the implementation of 'Justice Policy Developments until 2018'. I stress that last week the government approved the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Principles of Justice Policy 2030'. I would like to emphasise here to the representative of the people to the ten most important points proposed by the Ministry of Justice and supported and offered by the government to the representative of the people for discussion, so that the next parliamentary composition, which is expected to be elected, together with the next government to be formed, can reduce the volume of national legislation and increase the quality of legislation. It should be stressed that the starting point for developments in national legislative policies up to 2030 are problems that have emerged in the legislative culture and are systemic in nature. I will read the core of the new fundamentals of legislative policy. Firstly, if the requirement for intervention is not the result of the Constitution, the state will intervene as little as possible. Secondly, the Riigikogu adopts only laws that comply with the principles of good lawmaking. Thirdly, there is an important problem which, irrespective of governments, is of a continuing nature. The concrete decisions resulting from the Coalition Treaty are intended to be implemented within a hundred days in terms of our political culture today, as soon as possible. This assumption is already inherently contrary to good legislative practice and programmes a central contradiction here. My proposal to Parliament is to say clearly that the principles of good lawmaking must also be applied within the first hundred days of the government. The reference in the coalition agreement to any draft could not serve as a basis for this draft to be treated as urgent. Period. In other words, the idea might be that if we measure Franklin Delano Roosevelt's logic today that he was able to do what he did in the first hundred days under the new deal, our situation could actually be reversed: the new governments who take office should not do anything for a hundred days, but prepare and analyse their substantive plans, while they can also implement them. Fourthly, legislation must take into account the need for austerity and flexibility in maintaining the state. Fifthly, the aim must be that by 2030 the volume of legislation will fall significantly and that new laws will not be initiated lightly to achieve this. Regulatory regulation must be seen as a last resort to problem-solving, and all other options must be considered before that. Sixthly, the legal order must help to ensure Estonia's international competitiveness. Seventhly, the Riigikogu does not accept drafts for which no planning has been drawn up and for which no public interest is justified in the explanatory memorandum, unless the plan for development has been drawn up. Eighthly, the impact of the implementation of the law will be assessed before the draft is drawn up on the basis of the principle of proportionality. The impact assessment of a change with significant impact shall be more comprehensive and shall include, inter alia, an analysis of other possible solutions. Ninthly, the proposed changes must not increase the administrative burden. Tenth, the role of ex-post evaluations in the legislative process must increase and the government must set up a system for monitoring ex-post evaluation commitments and compliance and its results must be submitted to the Riigikogu. I'll get it together. When assessing what our legislative policy has been this year, it can be said that the quality of impact assessment has improved, while the number of urgent drafts remains unreasonable, neither impact assessments nor plans for development have been carried out. I don't think that's reasonable. This is certainly also the result of the pressure of over-regulation and over-regulation. The strategic solution is that Parliament must itself define, in clear terms, binding tasks for the Government of the Republic, in which way the Government must prepare drafts for Parliament, in such a way that it becomes binding for future Estonian governments and, in the longer term, as the length of one or another parliamentary term or government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U122	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U123	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your interesting presentation. It's pretty depressing when you look at the ratio of plans to be developed over the last few years. This figure was absolutely the lowest last year and, in the case of urgent drafts (they do not, of course, need this development plan), this list is impressively long. And ex-post evaluations actually have individual drafts. Name some of the most-notable drafts that did not have a development plan and no ex-post evaluation, which has done the most damage when it was adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U124	When it comes to damage or, in fact, the impact on people's consumption behaviour and tax policy, I think that these are certainly changes to excise duties on alcohol. There's no reason to deny it. With regard to laws which have not been the subject of a development plan and which have, in practice, been stuck in Parliament, because the effects have not been sufficiently assessed and there have certainly also been political confrontation or disagreements, I would point out, for example (I do not actually remember, he is still in Parliament's proceedings or not) the sweet tax law. I think that, above all, they relate to such issues, which are more broadly related to taxes and such burdens.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U125	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U126	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You have spoken here on quite a number of occasions that Parliament should establish itself, that bad laws should not be passed, and that drafts should not be adopted without the intention of being drafted. But how would that be possible, because the majority of Parliament is behind the government and vice versa? How can we now come out of this situation in such a way that Parliament can do what the government does not want to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U127	Very simply. I said that last week Parliament's procedure was given 'Principles of Justice Policy 2030', which are written on three pages. If the current Parliament (we do not know who is in the coalition and who is in opposition after spring 2019) adopts these binding rules, they will be mandatory for the next parliaments as well as for the next governments. I think it's possible to do this so neutrally. Regardless of which party it is, it is, of course, very difficult for yourself, being in the coalition, to put on the heads. That's what we gotta do first. Then this thing is done, then this conflict of interest, which is inevitable and primitive, has been removed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U128	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You've been in office as Minister of Justice since 2015, haven't you? In fact, the aim of developments in legal policy is better regulation and an adequate assessment of the impact of laws. As a minister, what do you personally consider to be a favour or a role that legislation has really improved? Do you want to give yourself some praise or criticism, of course, because it's not all right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U130	Thank you. On the subject of criticism, I remember that in the spring of 2015, I moved a legislative plan to the Government of the Republic to reduce the volume of legislation. The work has also started by the legislative council under the leadership of Jüri Raidla, and I think that there are a number of things that have been done in a positive direction and that have been avoided. But I actually had to insist that the Minister of Justice should have a veto right in order to be able to introduce this good legislative practice and reduce the volume of legislation in the government. Somehow my government partners or the rest of the ministers weren't thrilled with that idea. In other words, it was there that the principle was put in place that there should not be a plan for development if the government decides to do so. Looking at the established practice, it can be said that the Ministry of Justice has certainly not made it easy for other politicians who run the ministries or for officials of other ministries, rather we have been in a blocking role so that no problems are made. But the conclusion is that when we talk about calming legislation, reducing its volume, making social regulation more rational, the solution must come first and foremost from Parliament, and within the government, it is extremely difficult to achieve it through the logic of government policy in order to reach a new paradigm.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U131	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, In your answers, you mentioned the sugar tax procedure and the alcohol duty procedure. I did not understand whether these were examples of good or bad legislation. But is good legislative practice consistent with today's practice, for example, of this sugar tax? This whole thing got caught up in the European Commission's state aid permit at some point. If I wanted to see this text on State aid authorisation, see this request, I was not given it, it was classified. Finally, it succeeded, then it turned out to be a preliminary application, and the final application could not be seen. Is the dance that went around this sugar tax in line with good legislative practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U133	Thank you. No, I still brought them as negative examples that the impact assessment had not been carried out. As regards the financial burden on people, taxpayers, when political parties come to power in any government, luxurious promises have been made. Be careful, Reform Party, including those double pensions and tenfold subsidies that are currently flying, must be redeemed somewhere. These poor, miserable taxpayers must survive your promises under the burden of happiness. In spring 2015, we remember, a decision was taken to raise excise duties on motor fuels. People came with flags, nobody was beaten, but they were on the street and protested. In the same way, no impact analysis had been carried out. That was my call, looking at the practice of different governments, this practice has hardly been different in the past, so that the stress should be removed, that electoral promises are quickly being fulfilled in the first hundred days. Intelligentness and flexibility should be maintained, in the sense of trying to make rational decisions with a weighed effect. As far as the sugar tax is concerned, I honestly do not know what secrecy this could have been at all, I do not know whether there are any European Commission rules that these requests for State aid must not be made public. My rule is that nothing must be classified in the Estonian state unless there is a clear legal basis for this, which must have a substantive justification, which is due to the law. If the motive for secrecy was that it was politically not intended to give a competitor a weapon to argue the matter of stupidity or inconsiderateness, then it is certainly condemnable as an example of a general human and bad political culture, and I am almost certain that this is also a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U134	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Your review explicitly states that a clear impact assessment structure has been developed, trainings are carried out, improved and improved methodology has been developed. However, here we see successive and successive draft laws which do not have a proper impact analysis. Where's the reason? It can't be that there's no time or that one bill or another is too quick. Where's the real reason that there's still so little of these correct, modern, proper methodology impact analyses?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U136	I guess there's a lot of reasons. I would like to say that, on the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, we have moved on this matter in such a way that, in a large way, this capacity has been created by state agencies. It cannot be said that it simply does not know that the general human forces do not prevail, because the state machinery, professional, talented, motivated officials can certainly do this. Well, there can be many kinds of reasons here. There may be some things, I don't rule it out, an in-depth assessment of the effects in terms of an uncomfortable response or results. No one will ever admit it, it is quite clear, but it certainly exists, no matter where the power is. Culture must change in this sense, but we cannot only hope that new people will come, with angel wings, and change it. Secondly, in a number of respects, the impact assessment has not been considered necessary, precisely by referring to the fact that it is a European Union or some kind of international commitment or is an urgent matter arising from the need to resolve an acute problem. But, as I said, it is always possible to carry out an ex-post evaluation. Perhaps it was incoherent that there was a riot in front of this Parliament and that Estonia was full of passion, that what the effect of this migration pact really is. I myself examined and looked, the Ministry of Justice gave assessments of the impact of this migration pact, which is its legal meaning. The contract prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with a length of 31 pages, had a substantive explanatory statement, I don't know, two or three pages. Well, you see, he is, here we are. It was certainly not because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not working with talented and capable lawyers or professionals who could assess social impacts or describe the dynamics of how this agreement was born.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U137	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm reading this written text on the legal policy we have here, and there's a sometimes suspicious feeling that this is some kind of humor school. Someone on page 12 has calculated that one in five drafts reduces the workload of the public sector, but one in three or four increases it. Then the sentence follows that Estonia is constantly looking for opportunities to save public expenditure, but it does not want to succeed in any way, there is a risk that the public sector will receive so many tasks that it will no longer be able to perform them. What is government policy, however, how can this public sector be achieved? The Employers' Confederation in its manifesto included just 3,000 employees per year; the National Reform Foundation was even more radical. Or would this ruler somehow be some kind of financial savings? The Department of Justice should actually have the hoods.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U139	I have tried to make an honest objective assessment of these reports. Such a political festive speech that everything works, flags and drums roll and the crowd claps, I try to avoid. When I say that things have to have an objective effect and so, but I am so lacquered here, I think that calls to improve this quality will become empty. But now the question of how to reduce the public sector's share more widely or how to reduce the administrative tasks placed on the public sector. Yes, during this government, and perhaps during the previous government, a 'zero bureaucracy' task force was set up, which I think has such a noble purpose that, when a new burden is put on it, some kind of burden has to be reduced somewhere. I'm sure there's a bunch of great ideas in there. But in the big picture, I think it's still the kind of system moustache with the individual things that need to be dealt with, but that doesn't change the basic attitude. Undoubtedly, there are also ideological and world-view differences in this coalition: for whom a large public sector is ideologically a problem in itself and for whom this is perhaps a prerequisite for achieving some kind of better social security. These world-view conflicts are very strongly embedded in this government. In the spring of this year, I submitted an analysis of a memorandum concerning the full introduction of competition neutrality in Estonia. The point is, in principle, that we are not dealing with whether there should be fewer than 10 officials or 1000 officials, but the state must impose precisely the power of the legislator or the law that, if the public sector considers it necessary to obtain services, it does not use 'internal transactions', 'in-house transactions', but rather 'acquires' fairly, whether it concerns social work or health care. The assurance is that this will still enable us to reduce the public sector's share by 10% to 20% in a large way. I think it would rather be reasonable to look at these paradigmatic solutions. But the right thing is that because of the opposition of one coalition partner, it has not found any substance in the government. Well, he'll be waiting for the future. The idea is how to go about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U140	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U141	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You have been talking here about good lawmaking, which is probably opposed to non-good lawmaking. I don't know how to look at this in such an abstract way, but I think there is probably one of the legislative records of all time in the Riigikogu proceedings right now. This is a draft law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act, which amends 133 laws, including about 30 very significant amounts and without having to go through the thematic committees. How do you think it's classified into good lawmaking or not good lawmaking?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U142	I think that it falls within the common sense of law making in this sense, as far as it has been possible to do so in this big European case with common sense. My guideline on this law has been to try to find solutions that cause as little stress as possible in the legal relations that govern the Estonian state, which concern data protection, above all, in the internal organisation of the private sector. Second of all, this was the place of choice. If we weren't sure of the number of 133 laws, but he was probably, as the good questioner referred to, we would have turned 133 into colored bullets and scattered among the sectoral committees, then this myriad, I suspect, would have been misleading to legislation. They complain that the problem is cluster laws. Certainly this is not a cluster law, for it still has one thought in passing, but the same law-making would be misleading by such leaf laws to pull all the leaves off the branch and to disperse, figuratively speaking. It is difficult to imagine how to regulate, I don't know, in the ten or six permanent committees of Parliament, some area of life, true enough, in the various horizontal sectors of society. I believe that an optimal solution was found in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U143	Good Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much for your presentation. I'm opening negotiations. Urve Tiidus, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! Minister! Seven years ago, the then Minister of Justice, Rein Lang, presented a draft of the decision 'Towards the development of justice policy until 2018' in this Chamber. It was a consensual decision of the political groups to initiate a draft aimed at quite simple: achieving a better quality of regulation and an adequate assessment of the impact of laws. In presenting the plan, there was a quote like this: '... The period of construction of the legal order as a campaign has passed (It was 2011). (U.T.), instead of the number of laws, they must be dealt with in terms of their content, their direct and indirect effects. " That was what President Ilves had said in the days of the legal scientists. Since this decision in February 2011, the Riigikogu has also made a presentation every year on the implementation of developments in legal policy. Perhaps somebody today, I expected the Minister to say that everything had gone exactly as planned and even better. The reality is, things don't work that easily, even a non-lawist like me can understand it. As one cycle comes to an end this year, it is logical that the report by the Minister of Justice focused on the implementation of developments, looking further back in history than just the previous year, and ended, as expected, with plans for the future. It is true that the statistics concern the period from 2014 to 2018, the time for the transition to good lawmaking and regulation was then over and started to be applied more seriously. What did the report today tell us in the end? In fact, I'll start by asking what it didn't say. Unfortunately, it cannot yet be said that the campaign to build the legal order has ended, as requested in 2011. It will continue at less or more pace. Nor did this report say that the intention of drafting the draft has become a principle that cannot be overcome or redesigned. However, we have heard, as the Minister said yesterday to the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, that the impact of regulations on administrative burdens has been analysed in the case of draft laws, but regulations stemming from the law are completely excluded. True, he didn't mention it in this hall. And there are more. One of the key elements for improving the legislative process and reducing overproduction is, of course, the drafting of an intention to develop. In seven years, it's gotten a little better. However, while the intention to develop was mostly limited to one shorter paragraph of the text, the pendulum has sometimes reached the other side: it is claimed that the VTK has become more extensive and sometimes even so voluminous that no one can even read them. Finding the Golden Midway in a legal creative decline isn't that easy. When comparing the statistics on the VTCs and drafts for the last five years, the fact is that not all drafts are born after the VTCs, as good legislative practice requires, the minister admitted it, but there are still circumstances that force or allow them to bypass the VTCs. But according to statistics, the percentage of VTCs varies between 16% and 40% compared to the number of drafts over the years. Mr President, I would like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U145	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U146	Unfortunately, statistics do not reflect positive consistency for the better. Also stands out in the different practices of ministries. It is recalled from previous reports that there is no consensus on the need for plans to be developed. However, I have to say that the so-called peak of development plans over seven years was in 2015/2016. The most frequent justifications for not drawing up plans are now the urgency of the draft, the law of the European Union and external agreements, or the law is said to have no significant effect. For example, 28 of the drafts submitted to the Ministry of Justice for coordination in 2017, i.e. they were not preceded by a development plan. Among these 28 laws mentioned in this report are several tax laws: the law amending the Income Tax Act, the law amending the balance rule of the state budget, the law amending the VAT and income tax law, the sweet drink tax law, the law amending the State Property Act. Fortunately, not all of them have been accepted, but it is no secret that, for example, 52% of the Estonian people regard tax laws as unfair. There are too many new laws, this is quite often heard in Estonia. However, the principle of "ultima ratio," or last resort, is often used in the language mix of lawyers. That is what I have heard on several occasions in the Committee on Legal Affairs. After all, there is nothing simpler than thinking when you start writing the law about whether this particular law is needed in the first place or whether it can be done without it. But as usual, it's easier said than done. The administrative burden was mentioned in this report and also in the Minister's presentation today. The administrative burden has been reduced. There are some positive trends, but it cannot be said that the administrative burden has decreased as promised for the next period, until 2030, that the state will intervene as little as possible. He's still getting involved pretty hard. We know that zero bureaucracy is the dream goal of Estonian legislation, which it is worth pursuing seriously. Of course, the work of the task force planning the measurement of administrative burdens is eagerly awaited by many, including businesses. As regards the administrative burden placed on citizens, it cannot be said that this has been more prominently reduced, although there are indications that the trend is slightly downward, the burden of the à la la decreased by 5% in the case of draft legislation instead of 3%. Whether it's a trend or just a coincidence, that's what mathematics probability theorists have to say. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Minister of Justice has said that when a new law is born, at least three laws should fall out. I did not have time to ask him because two questions could not be asked, how often this situation has been, but it seems to me from an observation that it has not been very often or almost not at all. So the process that started seven years ago, that the main focus of legislation is quality, not quantity, must of course continue. As we have heard, new legal policy bases will be in place until 2030. The best thing about these goals was that the state intervenes as little as possible. Here's a little artistic distraction. Somehow, there is the impression that there is also more legislation in the country with more lawyers, and that there is more technological development in the country with more engineers. Maybe I'm wrong. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U147	Thank you, Mrs. Tiidus. Marko Pomerants, on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U148	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, A good colleague, Urve Tiidus, spoke about Rein Lang or quoted him. I will always remember Rein Lang by the fact that when he came before us as a minister, he always said that, honourable Riigikogu, this is a very good bill, please support this bill. That was exclusively about all of his drafts. The question in itself is whether there is anything in the law to do with statistics. People who prepared this report for the Minister of Justice have tried to obtain percentages as to whether the legislative or administrative burden has decreased. Well, maybe he's a little self-deception. The only thing that helps us numerically or supports the understanding of how much we deal with is the number of drafts that have reached us. I have seen that my colleague, Krista Aru, has just browsed some draft that goes to second reading, it is probably on the agenda for the next draft, the number of which is some 600 pieces. Of course, it is that if we call out slogans here, that there should be less criticism, which applies to all of us, then we can do the same in the Riigikogu ourselves. One thing is government lawmaking, but the other is what we ourselves have produced here in the factions. I guess there's enough of these drafts to go on for today. Analysis of impacts. I think it will never be a day like this that we will have laws with such an impact analysis, on which we can first say that this is a very good and sufficient analysis, and, secondly, after the implementation of the law, the projected effects will coincide with reality. Just one extravagant illustration of how this so-called two-chair law contributes to real life. A lot has been discussed about whether it makes sense or not. I say, as a member of the local government council, that it is quite healing to look at the law on the organisation of local government and the law on other municipalities on the side of the implementer, it is certainly an extension of the picture. There's also a lot of discussion about how to deal with this review thing. The public reform people here have proposed that the number of legislative lawyers should be halved in eight years. But I think we have unfortunately or luckily, I don't know which had to take those places where this review is still necessary. Let's look at the recently processed arms law, there's paragraphs 58 or 59 above, and if we look at the police and border guard law, we'll see numbers that may be, I think, even bigger in some places. Clearly, better structuring is needed. In order to radically change something about legislation in this country so that this beauty and such fine-tuning can stop, it is necessary to start from somewhere in the university, so that one morning there will come together and teach secondary growth in a different way. Of course, we cannot ignore how we can pour our potential future into the law. The collaborative economy has been one example, but surely all that concerns the regulation of artificial intelligence and this area is a challenge for us who are getting back on or for those people who are first able to feel this joy of law. So life goes on, we've got the last month and a half to be better than we've been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U149	Thank you, Mr. Pomerants. Mr Ernits, only the representatives of the political groups can appear on this item. Are you authorized to do this by the EKRE? [[P. Ernits will explain.]] Very good! Please, Mr. Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. I look forward to this presentation by the Minister of Justice here every year. Unfortunately, the interest of the Riigikogu is small, but in fact, these concerns, which the Minister has repeatedly highlighted and has also raised today, are quite large. We are talking about a knowledge-based society, our great'smartness', but it turns out when we look at and listen to this presentation that there is not much intelligence here. If you look at the last period, 2015. The results of 2006 show that only 36% of the drafts have an intention to develop, but a total of 331 drafts have been adopted. Yes, the urgent drafts last year were a quarter, while most of them have a significant impact. The Minister mentioned raising excise duty on alcohol in answer to my question. Do you remember what happened here when the Chairman of the Monetary Commission said that his beer wasn't drinking, his analysis was coming, the night was still long ahead and... 200 million or more against his pants! And now we're somehow trying to get a million or two into the state budget. Embarrassing. Or another thing: the Minister of Justice said that only six had sufficient impact analysis, only six. The list of urgent drafts in the Minister's presentation is impressively long. Only three of them, I stress, had an ex-post evaluation planned. Look at these tulips, they're depressing. Look, this blue color down here shows the drafts with the follow-up, the red color shows the drafts together, the whole array. Let's look at the practice of recent years. Last year was an absolute low point with plans to develop. So it's the worst thing I've ever done in years. In addition, the most arrogantic are, according to this analysis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment. They have around 10% planned development. The most advanced is the Ministry of Culture with 60%, more than half of the drafts, and the Ministry of Rural Affairs with half of the drafts. It was only when the people in front of the Riigikogu expressed their opinion on the migration agreement. I will now quote the Minister. The same Arrogant Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has only 10% of plans to develop, has, as you have seen, a very large impact on internal policy. The whole text was 31 pages and only two pages of explanation. This means that the Arrogant Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not considered it necessary to continue to clarify what it comes up with, which is the point. But as you remember, the effect is very great. And more. As of the end of October... Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U151	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U152	... About one hundred draft laws submitted to the Ministry of Justice and only 20 have plans to develop. I would like to remind you that this whole period, 2015. This percentage has been 36, now only 20 before the end of the year, i.e. one in five drafts. When only a fifth of the draft laws in this area come together to come up with what comes before us, and even though Rein Lang, who was called here and not just him, always said that the bill he was coming out with is very good, it actually shows that there may not be any very good here. For most of us, we don't even know how good they are, but we act, we push a green or red button, and we're not even ashamed of it. So legislation should be dealt with much more seriously and analyzed, exploiting potential, including what is in the ministries, and not creating the same situation as has been the case in recent years, over the last five years, over more years. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to say that we should think very much about the content and the analyses, not about the whacking and the campaign, as has been the case so far. That's the whole resume of it. We use our wisdom and analysis, but let's not cause hundreds of millions of damage to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U153	Thank you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U154	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister of Justice! If we use the word 'right policy' as a basic term here, it is indeterminate enough. It can certainly be treated as narrowly as it has been dealt with so far and, as the Minister did in his speech, but by legal policy, things can, of course, be understood in a much broader way. For example, the question of how much voluntary energy of citizens in all their forms has been put into the work of managing and maintaining the state in Estonia, apart from state institutions. There are also questions about judgment and many other things, but that is for now. If you look only at the legislative, i.e. the preparation of drafts, whether in the Riigikogu or in the ministries, the basic questions that need to be discussed are quite simple. They go back to two common sense questions. First, what is needed and possible to do, and second, how it is right to do these things. The method by which the concept of 'legal policy', which was now presented here by the Minister, gives us no answers on these issues. Of course, there is a constant need in the life of the country to reorganize things that have been organised differently in the past, because life is changing or there is going to be some completely new phenomenon that has never been before. We have this in particular in relation to two things. In fact, in Estonia, the population is mainly located here in Tallinn and around Tallinn, and the population has remained sparse elsewhere. Secondly, the advent of information technology has provided all sorts of new opportunities. I'm sure there's a lot of things to do. But I would point out that there are two groups of problems that cannot be covered by this approach. Firstly, the question of what to do with sour problems. An hour ago, we dealt with one such issue that when the independence of the Republic of Estonia was restored, we received two different school systems from the Soviet authorities, which worked in different languages. Now it has been almost 30 years, it is still in almost the same situation, it has not been resolved in time, the question has gone sour, and we could not do anything here today either. The second group of questions is the improvement of things that have been done wrong. I do not know if I will arrive today at a report that I should make on the draft of the Free Party on various aspects of the electoral law. It deals with things that have been done wrong and that need tidying up. We don't have much clarity about them. At the very moment, at least the legislative approach, as the Minister of Justice said here, gives us no answer here. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U155	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U156	Two concepts have been used here: design planning and impact assessment. I'm not a big bureaucratic friend. I think that the intention to develop could also be entirely without a written form, as long as it is politically and technically understandable. We have seen long pages of written text that are truly tortured to read. No reasonable person should have to deal with such matters; no Estonian government officials should have such texts drawn up. As far as impact assessment is concerned, of course, we could try to ensure that drafts and ministries do so, but I think that impact assessment is still essentially the role of the Riigikogu. This may be difficult to define, but if the Riigikogu does not fulfil this role, what role does it play at all. My experience in law-making in my own time was that no matter how good the intentions of the drafters are (they are certainly good, they want good for their profession, their country and their people) there are two issues that need to be assessed. First of all, could their proposed plans even produce a positive result? It is very often the case that the proposed measures do not produce the desired results. The second question is about negative or undesirable effects. In the light of my experience, I would dare to postulate that it is not at all possible to introduce any new norm in Estonia or anywhere in the world that would not have a negative impact, even because there is a group of people in society, some of whom are lawyers, whose content of life is not intended to exploit the standards adopted in order to pursue any other purpose. These negative effects always come along. The main problem with the assessment is how great these negative effects are. Maybe they're so big, they don't want to ask for a change at all. These are the main issues of the Riigikogu and cannot be resolved by the Ministry. I repeat more than one thing that I have said to the Minister from this speaker over the last few years. If we are to decisively reduce the number of legislation and the volume of existing laws, it is important to abandon the course taken during the last Supreme Council that too detailed laws are being made in Estonia. It should be decided that some part of the norm is cut out of the law and transferred to other norms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U157	Thank you, Mr. Adams! There are no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The debate on the sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U158	Let's go to item number seven. Second reading of the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market, the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020 and the Draft Act amending the Structural Support Act for the period 2007 to 2013 Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 21 November, the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy, the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market, the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020 and the Structural Support Act for the period 2007 to 2013 687. Since the Commission had made a good draft, there were no amendments. The Commission unanimously took four decisions. It was proposed that the draft 687 be placed on the plenary agenda by 4 December, that the second reading of the draft 687 be closed and that when the second reading is completed, the draft be sent to third reading by 12 December and that the final vote on the draft 687 be carried out. As I said, all the proposals were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U160	Thank you. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U161	Good manager! Good waitress, remind me. Paragraph 114 (1) states that the words "not applicable' should be replaced by the words "also applicable'. What are we talking about and...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U162	It's very simple. No interest on late payment shall be applied if the proceedings are currently suspended or "scheduled'. "Timed' is correct, 60 days can be scheduled for refund, no interest is applied at the time of timing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U163	Thank you. No further questions for you. I open negotiations, close negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled, as the chairman of the committee has proposed. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 687. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U164	Let's go to the eighth item. Second reading of the draft law amending the Population Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 724. Please speak to Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Population Register Act will apply from 1 January 2019. The law on this amendment is in our proceedings because two basic things are being changed there. One is that if the address of a person's place of residence is fixed with the precision of the municipality or city, its cancellation is postponed by one day, or 2 January. Secondly, four months will be considered as the current 30 days instead of the current 30 days for the validity of the residence data of the same people in the context of the elections. The second reading debate took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 20 November. Despite the changes that had already been made, three other amendments were made in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, initiated by the Ministry of the Interior. On 20 November, Jüri Adams, Hanno Pevkur, Jaak Madison, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Lauri Luik and Peep Aru were present, while others were present) Head of the Department of Population Operations at the Ministry of Internal Affairs Enel Punga and Adviser to the same department Mari Käb. One major amendment is that § 1 of the Amending Act deletes point 3 according to which it was intended to amend § 45 of the Population Register Act, adding an additional paragraph 3, which provided that the parent does not have the right of access to certain data of his minor child if the court has restricted the right of access to the data or has suspended or totally deprived the custody of the parent. The point of this amendment now is that we also have the Personal Data Protection Act in the process and that, in order to harmonise these laws, it is the proposal to withdraw this paragraph from the Population Register Act through an amendment. This problem will be solved by the Personal Data Protection Act and its implementing law, which will apply from 15 January. The second amendment (all confirmed by consensus by the Commission, voted in favour of Marko Pomerants, Helmut Hallemaa, Tiit Terik and Mikhail Korb) is that it complements the new clause 6 of the Act amending the Population Register Act, which amends the date of the notification of residence. It is made more specific, it is the date of arrival of the residence notification in the local government unit, which is also defined by law. Specific definitions and definitions apply to the residence notification itself in the Population Register Act. The third amendment concerns § 1, to which point 10 is added, according to which the institutions and persons covered by § 82 (4) of the Population Information System Act, the list of which is established by the Government of the Republic. Mari Käb explained that the proposal clarifies the mandate rule in the draft, that only 'institutions' are a little limited, for example, they are notaries under the law, but the circle of these persons may be much wider. Finally, the Commission made procedural decisions: to propose today's agenda, to carry out a second reading, to close the second reading and, when it is closed, to send the draft to a third reading by 6 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U166	Thank you. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U167	Good manager! Good waitress! Once again, the Chancellor of Justice will play as a good angel. Did you discuss the fact that, if the Chancellor of Justice had not come up with this proposal on late payment, on its non-implementation, would this whole law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union and this whole long thing have continued to apply and farmers would have been as if they had been sacked in the language of the country? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U168	Thank you. This question was a little late, because the last waitress who spoke about it has already moved away from the remote. This question did not concern the Population Register Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U169	Thank you. No further questions for you. I open negotiations, close negotiations. There have been three amendments to the draft. Let's start looking through them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The second proposal is similarly from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The third amendment, similarly from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has been fully taken into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 724. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U170	Let's go to item 9. First reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group 701. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu member Jüri Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U171	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At first, some methodological remarks. Just ten minutes ago, I gave a speech during the discussion on the agenda item on developments in legal policy from this panel and pointed out that there are two clearly distinct groups of problems in Estonian politics. Some of the problems are those which, for various reasons, have not been resolved correctly in time, whether they have not been encouraged or not, and the solution has been wrong. And then it becomes extremely difficult to make adjustments because society gets used to the bad, unfair or unreasonable procedures in place, and this habit begins to live on in its own way. The second group of things are those that have gone sour, they have not been dealt with in time for various reasons, for example, because there has been no consensus in the government coalition on this issue. Thus, the search for a solution has been delayed for years, although it is generally perceived that problems exist. There is a situation that is analogous to a disease that has not been treated at the right time, which might have been easy to treat, but from one moment on, the disease that has not been treated becomes chronic and then there are various side effects. In the end, even the best specialists can't tell us how to proceed. By this I would like to say that Estonia's electoral rights issues are currently in this kind of situation, are growing and becoming more obvious and, at the same time, it becomes more difficult to go back to some reasonable and normal situation every year. We know that the two coalitions of government in this Parliament have been such that they have had different coalition partners, who have more liked the law in force or, if not mindful, they have at least considered the continuation of the current situation to be the best possible solution. Thus, a fundamental decision has been taken to reject all attempts to change the elements of the electoral system in any way in the Riigikogu. Including the draft that I am talking about now, a joint decision has been made between the parties to the government coalition and the Reform Party that they have soloised with them that they do not want to deal with these issues during the Riigikogu's term of office, so the draft must be rejected. So I am referring to the fact that the vote at the end of this item is rejecting this bill, but that does not mean that this problem will disappear, that is only that it will go on to the next Riigikogu and again the new people will not be here again. Now I come to the point. One of the central words of our culture is the Greek compound word 'democracy', which comes from the Greek words 'power of the people'. It has been used and used in a variety of meanings among infinity, so it is not possible to prove anything to anyone in any dispute directly with that word. In my experience, the minimum definition of democracy, which is more or less accepted by everyone in the world, is that democracy can be called such a state order as, with a certain periodicity, universal elections are held in the country after a certain period of time, and as a result of these elections, persons occupying certain posts will change. How many people there are and exactly who they are is quite different from country to country. Some of these are certainly state top executives, top officials, parliamentarians, others, mainly serving and assisting officials. I have happened somewhere to read that when the Presidential elections are held in the United States, which means that two new people are elected, the President and the Vice-President, as a result of which some 3 350 people will change in various positions. This is the direct result of the presidential election on the subject. If the elections in Estonia are to be held on 3 March, what will be the number of people who will change positions in our democracy? I don't know anyone was trying to figure it out. I think it's between 200 and 250 people. Someone who deals with the law of the state could try to sum it up. In assessing the quality of elections, it is important to assess the right to vote and the technical exercise of the right to vote. Lawyers generally divide the right to vote into two parts. One of them is the active right to vote, that is, the right to vote, and the other is the passive right to vote, which is understood as the right to stand as a candidate. We have proportional elections, list elections, and although our laws include an institution of individual candidates, it is quite minor, more important is the question of who and how is the right to submit candidates' lists. With active voting rights, I mean, with the right to vote we do not have a major problem. For each election, there is a small number of accusations that someone has tried somewhere to buy votes for a small fee, with the idea of making people vote according to their own wishes. The number of these has never been so high that the question has risen in Estonia that it is necessary to cancel the election result. We have not had any problems with election counterfeiting for a long time either. These doubts have always been raised for each election, but they have not been confirmed. But there are actually a number of problems with active electoral rights in Estonia. One part of them is the way we have people in the population register, which was discussed on the previous item. We do not have the possibility that we ourselves would choose the constituency where we want to choose. The location, the electoral district, is determined by the place we have entered in the population register as our place of residence. It can be changed, but it is quite difficult to change. The most massive problem we have is that tens of thousands of Estonians have migrated from Estonia, mainly in the search for a job, they are scattered abroad in many parts of the country. Data on such people show that at the time of the election of at least the last three Riigikogus there were about 70,000 of our fellow citizens who are predominantly Estonian and live mainly in Europe, who did not exercise their right to choose. Formally, you could say that it is their own concern if they do not use it, but I do not think it can be politically assessed. There has been some kind of political oblivion in Estonia, let us say the softest. In Latvia, the Diaspora Act was recently passed, one of which is to organise the Latvians living abroad to vote in the Latvian elections and referendums. I think that Estonia must do the same. It connects to the news that came yesterday. How do we share mandates between constituencies? They are not divided according to how many people who actually have electoral rights live or, rather, how many people living in Estonia are included in the population register according to the boundaries of the electoral circles, but also include more than 85000 people who are considered permanently living abroad by the population register. It's pretty arbitrary. So if the number of mandates in Lääne-Viru County did not fall from five to four, as could be predicted, but at the same time in Harju County this figure rose from 14 to 15 and in Tallinn two more mandates came, it is partly the result of the actual population migration, but partly the game of certain numbers with the number of people not living in Estonia registered in the population register under their constituencies. There are a number of other issues with active voting rights. For example, in my opinion, the question of where students have the right to vote in elections to the Riigikogu is quite unreasonably politically resolved. But the problems with passive electoral rights are, in my opinion, a lot more serious. Indeed, we have the right to submit a list of candidates at present only for those organisations that have been entered in the national register of political parties, and for others there is currently no such right. In addition, (it seems as a strange reproach) it has to be said that in Estonia, any organisation that is considered a party is allowed to submit only one list of candidates. It's not like that all over the world. It is also quite common that more lists may be provided. We have a completely new practice in Estonia this year. In the meantime, if there were no serious attempts for years to form new parties in the sense of being entitled to submit a list of candidates, then this summer there were three so-called 500+-signed undertakings which, as far as I know, were successful. This means that the technology acquired in Estonian society has formed them quite quickly. I remember that when Andres Herkel and others formed the Free Party, it was a very long and arduous activity. But now these 500+ lists were made and registered in no more than three months. This is a remarkable change that has taken place in our society over the last few years. There have been several periods in Estonia when submitting electoral lists. First of all, during the first period of Estonian democracy, from the 1920s until 1933 the submission of electoral lists was almost entirely free. There was no legal restriction at all. Anyone could put together a list of candidates, these lists were registered. The only condition was that bail was paid. Before World War II, no one in Estonia realized that it was possible, as we saw in our neighbouring Latvia, that some very rich person would give money or several rich people would put money together and buy for themselves or create a party for money. At that time, no such problem had arisen. I do not know if it has been created in Estonia at this time, perhaps the seeds of such development have been sown. Since Estonia's independence was restored, we have had three distinct periods, two of them short and the last, the third, quite long. Indeed, in the 1992 elections, the list was more or less the same as before the war in Estonia, except for one condition, namely that the organisation had to be registered in the Presidium of the Supreme Council and had to have 200 members. The problem with the number of political party members begins there. In the next election, in 1995, the picture was much different. The lists of candidates were allowed to be submitted by organisations that were recognised as political parties at the time or, alternatively, formed a political party electoral alliance. This is now the content of this draft so that several existing political parties can submit a common list. In 1995, the list of electoral alliances was presented at the time and there were eight electoral alliances, i.e. more than individual parties. Of these, four electoral alliances, Moderates, the Group and the Association of Rural Peoples, the Fatherland and the ERSP Association and the electoral union of Russian parties called 'Our home is Estonia', were then admitted to the Riigikogu. Since the 1999 elections, electoral alliances were banned, and the legislative amendment took away this possibility. Perhaps I can add a few more facts when I answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U172	Thank you, dear waitress. In order for you to be able to answer the questions thoroughly, we will continue the debate on this item tomorrow, because the time for the sitting is about to end. Thank you for your participation today, your talk and your talk. We will continue the debate on this item in tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-04_U173	And I thank you for listening patiently! Closure of the sitting at 1.57 p.m.
