ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will go to the meeting of the 13th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. It's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. We're going to the presence check. Checking for presence. Ladies and gentlemen, 66 members of the Riigikogu are present, 35 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U2	Let's go to Thursday's agenda. The first item is the Annual Report 2017 of the Bank of Estonia. Before I give the floor to the Governor of Eesti Pank, Mr Hansson, I would remind you that, according to the procedure, we will all be able to ask Mr President a question. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U3	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm very happy to stand here with you again. As has been said earlier, this is one of the top events of the year in the sense that this conversation, which we are having here, not only a presentation, but also your relevant and interesting questions, will always, in my opinion, be a very interesting and important dialogue. So we are grateful that is part of our commitment, but we certainly see this as a great opportunity. Today is a special day for Eesti Pank, 99th birthday. On 3 May 1919, the Bank's core capital was transferred from the Eesti Pank ledger to 10 million marks and the first amount was accepted into the current account, so Eesti Pank started its activities. Last year was also special for Eesti Pank and Estonia as a whole thanks to the Presidency of the European Union. The central bank's main event was the two-day meeting of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank in Tallinn, during which Mario Draghi, President of the European Central Bank, also gave a press conference. Next time, such an event should take place in about 20 years' time. As usual, I am talking about three issues: firstly, a little bit about the euro area economy and monetary policy, secondly, the Estonian economy, fiscal policy, the state of the financial sector, and thirdly, other activities of Eesti Pank. Starting with Europe, I say that the economic development of the euro area was better than expected. This was supported by improved external demand and confidence in the euro area. Last year the euro area economy grew by around 2.5%. This is quite a good result in the context of the euro area, growth was also broad-based in the sense that it covered many sectors and the economy of all 19 Member States was growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U4	Good waitress, I'm sorry for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is so buzzing in the hall that even I find it difficult to listen here. Keep it down, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U5	Thank you. The economy is expected to continue to grow at a similar rate this year and then the growth rate could be slightly below 2% in the future. Several other real economy indicators are developing in the right direction and the picture is, I would say, generally moderately positive. The volume of the euro area economy is already close to its potential, i.e. production capacities have been more or less normally implemented. The pace of wage growth in the euro area may be a little slower if we had waited for such a development, but there is also moderate pressure on it. Central bankers emphasise inflation in particular. We are trying to keep inflation under control, it should not be too big or too small. The objective of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank is to have inflation in the euro area slightly below 2% in the medium term. Normally, we are used to the fact that inflation is too high, we have to bring it down a little bit, but, as we know, in recent years, we have been in the opposite situation in the euro area, where the problem is rather that inflation is too low and we have wanted to increase it somehow. Therefore, the monetary policy pursued by the central banks has been mild and we have talked not only about monetary policy interest rates but also about other non-standard measures, particularly large-scale asset purchase programmes. As we have said now, the asset purchase programme is expected to last until the end of September this year or longer. Recent developments in the euro area have been rather positive and have allowed a moderate exit from soft monetary policy, a gradual normalisation. For example, a year ago, when we bought assets by about 80 billion a month, the volume of purchases of assets has now fallen to around 30 billion, i.e. more than half of what we bought at the peak of this programme. I think this is a positive development in itself. As one of the central banks of the euro area, we have been contributing to the development of a common European monetary policy for years at Eesti Pank, and we did so last year. Last year Eesti Pank purchased some 2 billion worth of bonds, and now 5.3 billion euros of the assets purchased by the euro area central banks for monetary policy purposes is part of Eesti Pank. Although Estonia is a member of the European Union, some things vary from country to country. Sometimes people ask why we offer one advice to the euro area, but at the same time, we could be a little more expansive for Estonia. It comes from a very different cyclic position. If we look at inflation in the euro area, which is about one-and-a-half percent, inflation in Estonia is about 4%. If we look at economic growth in the euro area, it is just over 2%, in Estonia nearly 5%. So now Estonia is simply in a different cyclical position and therefore needs a different policy. When making a common monetary policy, the euro area as a whole must bear in mind; we cannot calibrate it on a country-by-country basis. Even before joining the euro area, when we had our own fixed rate, we got used to a regime that sometimes monetary policy could be too harsh for us and sometimes too lenient. Now you could say that, from our narrow point of view, monetary policy could be a little harsher, but we must aim for the euro area as a whole. In Europe, fiscal policy is left to a measure that can then be calibrated by country. We will come back to this issue. In the coming years, we believe that it is justified to draw up a budget with a surplus. Returning to the Estonian economy, last year Estonia exceeded almost all the years after the crisis. We are talking about 5% growth, which is, of course, a very positive result. However, there are a number of reasons behind the rapid growth. I think that, above all, the external conjuncture was much better than it was a few years ago. We are an export-oriented country, and if our partners are doing badly, we are also doing badly. The miracle of miracles, when the others are suddenly getting better, we're about to do better. We now have a situation where Finland is doing well, Sweden, Latvia, Lithuania and Germany are doing well, and even Russia is now seeing growth of around 1.5%. So everybody's gotten much better in our neighborhood, and we're about to win it. Both export prices and volumes have increased. The incomes of Estonian residents have also increased, wages have increased strongly and this has attracted our citizens to more consumption. Certainly, a mild monetary policy has affected our results, and the increased use of European Union money has stimulated our economy in the short term. As a result, the companies were doing well, their turnover and profits increased, and now it is a very unique, possibly partly temporary period, where wages are growing, investments are growing, consumption, exports and profits are all growing. However, we believe that the role of the country is to look beyond a year or two, because then the picture may not be as rosy. Eesti Pank has concluded from its studies that economic growth should slow down in the coming years, partly because partners cannot always do as well as they do now. Both we and the International Monetary Fund, having analysed Estonia's economy, consider that this potential long-term economic growth could now be around 3%. We already see that the labour market is on the verge of overheating, the demand for workers is still high, despite the fact that around 70% of our workers are busy. Estonia's employment rate is one of the highest in Europe, I think we are now the second highest. In fact, the labour market works extremely well, in the sense that it offers some kind of jobs to a large number of our citizens. We currently have low unemployment, rising wages, companies complaining about labour shortages, etc., so there is already some imbalance. Productivity growth picked up slightly last year, but was still modest compared to the previous decade. Interestingly, even if we have demographic problems, the demographic situation is not very strong, we have managed to increase employment. However, this cannot be a long-term trend and therefore we think that growth will be slower in the future. If, in the future, export prices were to stop growing and export turnover would not increase so quickly, profitability problems might again arise. So, in part, this is a temporary phenomenon that brings us to fiscal policy. As we know, we were somewhat critical of last year's fiscal policy. We do not speak about individual taxes, we do not comment on individual taxes, individual cost items, etc. We are looking at a deficit or overall position, and we believe that this policy could have been a little more conservative, which would have helped smooth this economy. With 1% in one year, then 5%, the economy becomes very volatile. It is possible for the government to level it out a little bit with budgetary policy. Coming to the new country's budget strategy, the meeting of the budget strategy at Sagadi Manor allowed a structural balance and nominal surplus to be drawn up. I think that, as a political message, it is a welcome one that responds to what we have recommended in the past. Looking ahead, we must take into account that the European Union's aid is lower. I think it is in your power to ensure the smoothest transition possible for Estonia. I have said several times before that, in times of rapid growth, it is not wise to spend more than we earn; this opportunity could be left for worse times. Eventually, the devil is in the details. We intend to monitor the preparation and processing of the state budget. If it is based on these same principles, the structural balance and the nominal surplus, based on realistic revenue and expenditure forecasts, we will certainly appreciate it positively. Other subjects. Financial stability. It is also the competence of Eesti Pank to assess this, and a few years ago you even gave us a mandate to create a toolbox, specific instruments to ensure financial stability in Estonia. We have analysed this, the risks to different financial sectors, and say that the banks operating in Estonia are strong and the risks to financial stability are small, although some risks still exist. A few weeks ago, we published our own risk assessment and highlighted four main risks. The first is still linked to a possible sharp fall in real estate prices in the Nordic countries. Our banks are very closely linked to the Nordic countries; they are Nordic banks. So far, it has gone very well, and until Sweden, for example, has done very well, our entrepreneurs have won by the fact that exports have developed well there and we have received some pretty cheap money from it. Now, if this country's rating should somehow turn and real estate prices start to fall rapidly, then surely our export potential will decrease if we think, for example, of log house producers or so. The price of money for Estonian banks and thus the customers of Estonian banks could certainly rise a little. It's a risk. Secondly, at the moment, security is already quite high, wages are growing rapidly, interest rates are low The banks are delivering moderately or conservatively, so we do not yet see the risk as it is happening, but we cannot exclude that in the future we will again have a loan race that could create new problems. The third issue is the high demand in the real estate market. Labour and capital may be concentrated in the construction and real estate sectors. We do not want to see that there are a few years where all young men move into the real estate sector, start building houses, but in a few years, the construction market will collapse, then they will all be unemployed and moving back and forth again. This is also not good for long-term growth potential. Finally, the pressure of wage growth remains a threat to the profitability of Estonian companies. If profits start to decrease again, prices will not rise so much, but costs will rise, some companies may find it difficult to service their loans. Eesti Pank will monitor this situation and will be prepared to tighten up the risk mitigation measures if necessary. A few other things. Access to cash and banking services. I would say that last year the settlements worked well and that changes in the payment environment are constantly being made. By 2020, all payment terminals should allow for contactless payments. During this year, Estonian residents should be able to make inter-bank so-called instant payments. Cash circulation was smooth, a new and safer €50 banknote came into use. We checked how well ATMs from money-handling companies can identify counterfeits. This is one reason why the number of counterfeits in Estonia remains very low, less than 0.1% of counterfeits detected in the euro area. The share of cash transactions is decreasing every year, but Estonia cannot and should not become completely cash-free, nor is it a goal. I have said before that I myself very much support the use of cash and I certainly encourage citizens to do so. However, Eesti Pank has stated that it is no longer reasonable to use one and two persons. Surveys show that more than half of Estonia's people support the implementation of rounding rules. It is up to you whether and how to limit the use of one- and two-members. In fact, it is more a matter for the government than for Eesti Pank, but at least we wanted to launch some debate to discuss whether we could move in this direction in the future. The availability of financial services is improving in rural areas, largely due to Coop Bank's entry into the market. We have talked about this issue before in this Chamber, and I am personally very pleased that this area of access to financial services in small towns and rural areas has improved or is improving recently. Other tasks of Eesti Pank. Last year we also carried out our tasks in the field of statistics, for example. Eesti Pank is the second national statistical collector next to Statistics Estonia. Our statistics were timely and reliable. Some research and studies were published in the field of monetary policy and economic research by Eesti Pank. I think they are important for understanding what is happening in the Estonian economy, and I hope that these analyses will also be useful to you. Eesti Pank carried out its tasks from this point of view, so that all expenditure would be reasonable and fulfil its purpose. Eesti Pank is the smallest central bank in the euro area in terms of the number of employees. We are based on the principle that austerity brings success and has also brought success. In the last six years, I think Eesti Pank's expenditure as a share of GDP has decreased by about one fifth. We are very quiet, but I think we have been able to improve our efficiency despite such a starting position that we are the smallest central bank in Europe. At the same time, I am convinced that no discounts should be made on quality. As a bank manager, I have said that good times should be spared for worse times. We have also done so in Eesti Pank. The central bank allocated a quarter of last year's profit, or 1.1 million euros, to the state budget and the rest to the central bank's reserves. Eesti Pank also considers it reasonable to collect reserves at government level. In summary, rapid growth is a joy, but we should make wise use of this time and prepare for the future. Stable growth is in all our interests. Eesti Pank stands by ensuring that prices remain stable, that the money is secure and that the financial system is reliable. I hope you're just as eager to keep public finances in order. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer your questions now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U6	Thank you. You have a lot of questions. Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U7	Thank you. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, First of all, on behalf of the Free Party, thank you for your pleasant cooperation. You are always there, always available! I have read your 2017 report with great interest. It is interesting to read how you value the Estonian economy. I quote: 'Estonia and the euro area both have a boost in economic growth and are even faster than it can be achieved in the long term. Growth has been supported by a favourable interest environment created by central banks, and now is the best time for governments to implement uncomfortable but long-term growth-friendly reforms. Hopefully, we'll have plenty of foresight to fix the roof until the sun shines. ' Please explain what uncomfortable growth-enhancing reforms you have in mind and what you recommend to the Riigikogu and the government!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U8	Thank you, very good question! I think it could be discussed here for hours, what could be done. Estonia is characterised by the fact that we have made progress in many areas. There are relatively few areas where there are major omissions; they need to be searched for a little. Should some issues be raised, the draft pension reform should certainly be recognised in this dimension that the age of retirement is intended to be linked to the average life expectancy. I think that this change in itself would help create stability and ensure sustainability. The second topic. I am not going to propose specific reforms here, but I am just pointing out some areas. One thing is definitely improving the quality of higher education. When we look at international comparisons, such as PISA tests, we see that our basic education and secondary education have a very high rating. Although there are also positive signs in the development of higher education, such as the international recognition of studies and research carried out at the University of Tartu, there is also room for an increase in the quality of study and research. The importance of this area is particularly stressed by the fact that, in the long term, the development of our economy depends on increasing knowledge-intensive production. I think that corporate R &amp; D has been modest overall. In fact, the country has often been more advanced in this area than our private sector. I'm sure you could see if it's possible to develop a softer side. If we look at cars, if we look at facilities, etc., then there are relatively large investment volumes, but the softer side, all patenting, software, etc., is not so strong. We could certainly also consider whether our labour laws could make forms of work easier and more flexible, especially part-time work. Although we already have an employment rate so high that it is difficult to increase it from there, I think there are certainly pockets here where employment can be further increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U9	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Hansson, congratulations to the Bank of Estonia and thank you for this presentation. You've been here before us in the role of a great warning. Last year Eesti Pank warned that the construction sector could overheat us. In November, before the Riigikogu, you said that the Estonian economy has achieved a volume and growth rate that exceeds the level of sustainability. Today you have pointed out that the labour market is at risk of overheating. My question is somewhat similar to that of Enn Meri. What should the state and government do to minimise all these threats?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U11	Thank you for your question. I think that one thing is certainly the preservation of the same flexibility that exists, that, at least when worse times occur in the future, the economy will be adaptable. But the second issue is certainly what I said earlier so that the budgetary position could be one that would limit this demand at least a little in the short term. If, in the current situation, where, say, the labour market is already quite overheated, the state is starting to invest even more, then perhaps we are seeing national projects, but somewhere else in the economy is a company that would otherwise have started building or investing something, is now looking at established construction prices and says that I am not doing it now. Overall, the country may not win very much, but just imbalances increase. If we think that investment in the private sector is on average more productive, then it can actually be retaliated through lower growth. Again, we are not going to comment directly on raising this tax, reducing this tax or spending more here and there, but we think that the structural balance and nominal surplus would certainly be a good contribution to stabilising the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U12	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, In Eesti Pank's report, the promotion of the payment environment is a separate issue and there is also a brief comment on virtual currencies. You didn't mention that in your report. However, how does Eesti Pank see the impact of virtual currencies and block-chain technology on the Estonian payment environment in the future? How long is this perspective when such crypto money conquers the Estonian market? Are there any risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U14	Thank you for a very good question. We have now started to monitor the whole area of financial technology a little more under our new strategy. This is an exciting area where things will inevitably change because new models, approaches, etc. will be invented. We will certainly try to see if such technological developments can be implemented in Estonia, while at the same time ensuring that risks do not grow too high. I think the whole world of crypto money is a little weird, and actually you have to be very careful. I'm sure there's some point, some positive part that's gonna last and start affecting our lives in one way or another. Right now, he's become a little speculative. This area has certainly attracted even fraudsters who once again advertise some kind of crypto money, some new forms of contract, etc. try to attract people to invest. I think that right now we just have to warn people that if you're thinking about putting your money in there, be very careful, because this is a very risky area. I do not see that the cryptoral has a very big future or that some private money that no one directly issues will now have any significant impact on the lives of large currencies, such as the euro or the American dollar, but simply, if it were to become large-scale, we should start regulating it more. Right now, I think we just have to warn people to be careful.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U15	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U16	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, Governor of Eesti Pank! You have published commendable publications, and one of them is the labour market review, where you have described the fact that the share of government employment in the economy is quite high, and because of the shrinking and ageing population, labour shortages and wage pressures have already started to limit the private sector. I understand that this is also one reason why we cannot expect economic growth at this level in the coming years. Do you also see in Eesti Pank what this time perspective could be when this repression of the private sector by the government sector explodes? Do you have any suggestions that you should make as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U17	Thank you. I think that these are very long-term processes, such as demography, population decline, social ageing, and quite predictable. If the adjustment of the public sector is also gradual and temporary and starts right now, then perhaps it can do so. The problem would be if we wait very long with it and then in the future it should be cut more vigorously, for example because there is less euro money and then you have to balance the budget somehow and suddenly start reducing employment in the public sector in a very fast way. I think there have been plans for a smooth decline for a long time, and this is certainly a sensible approach. I don't think there's any need for revolution or urgent action here right now, but we should get on that road or, if we're on this road, continue along this road.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is perhaps more about rural life, but one issue that has also gone through the statements of experts is that we are, in some respects, literally an exporter of raw materials. The sad nature of the matter is that we move the raw materials out and buy back the products made from this raw material. Would you have any recommendation here for rural entrepreneurship and agriculture, where we have the potential based on our natural environment and skills, but we cannot afford it enough to give a real income supplement in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U20	Thank you for your question. Eesti Pank does not have specific recommendations in this area. I cannot say either that we have studied this subject very much. I think we should avoid extremes as we approach this issue. One extreme is certainly to expel everything as raw materials; the other is to hope that everything can be earned here. If you look at other countries, Australia, Canada and others that export a lot of raw materials, some have been processed locally, but some part still has to go out. It can't be that all things will be finished here. Modern production is often based on production chains, which may be global, regional, etc., so that processing takes place somewhere else, is put on board a ship, sent to a place where some further process will take place. So in today's world, I think it would be too much to expect that the final production will be completed from the beginning to the end in Estonia. On the other hand, it would make sense to see if we could quietly increase the share of added value that remains in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U21	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! At the end of your presentation, you said that Eesti Pank also considers it reasonable to increase reserves at government level. Well, the government has decided, I say, not to raise reserves in the next two years. To justify this, they have given two reasons. Firstly, the return from the allocation of reserves is currently too low. I'm reading it as the reason I'm looking for. The second reason is this: the government says that they cannot collect reserves, because in the following year and the next year, debt will have to be paid back. I'm saying it's scheduled payments that were known a long time ago. The 72 million that will have to be repaid next year will not confuse the financial plans. In 2007, when the budget was half the budget, Estonia paid more than 100 million euros back in its current currency. How do you assess the government's justification for not collecting reserves on the pretext that scheduled repayments are too high?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U23	Thank you. One topic is that money is cheap, and it could all be used up right now. I've been talking about this lately. I think that this approach may make sense in the case of a single enterprise or a household, perhaps a company or a household that would not have taken a loan before, will now look at interest rates and decide again. It can never be massive that society doesn't borrow one day, but then next day everyone decides to borrow. But there could be a direction here. A country that accounts for 40% of our economy, it has such a large share of the economy, however, should, in our view, be in some sort of balancing role; it is not comparable to a grocer. At the moment, the problem may be that if companies are already optimistic and start investing, then at the same time euro money will start moving, and if thirdly the country starts to stimulate the economy, then there will be a boat-sitting side-by-side everyone will start moving at the same time and the boat can go around. The government could, in this sense, play a balancing role. Sometimes these payments can be higher than others. I think that if a particular decent nominal surplus were achieved, this would be a big step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U24	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, congratulations to you and to Eesti Pank! Estonia is probably facing a reduction in the European Union's resources. In your report last year, as well as in other speeches in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, several times the government has made a promise that the reduction of this money will be taken into account in the budget strategy of the country that has now been completed. Is and to what extent the Estonian Government has now prepared the budget strategy of Eesti Pank and in your opinion for the reduction of the European Union's resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U26	Thank you for your question. One challenge is definitely the reduction in European Union money, the other is demography, which means that in the future we will have to spend more on an ageing society, more on health care, on pension payment, etc., and the third thing that we will probably face is a cyclical deterioration. It's a good situation right now, but you have to look at all these three factors. I think that if we publish our new forecast in June, we will take it all together and give a more accurate assessment of what this budgetary position could be exactly like. We are now seeing that if the government implements a budget that is structurally balanced and has a clear nominal surplus, it is certainly at least a step in the right direction. We do not know what the reduction in euro will be in the future, especially because of Brexit. There will be fewer paying-back countries in the future, and that is another factor besides the fact that we are getting richer and therefore being given less money. But demographics are somewhat predictable, and it can certainly be said that this money is not going to run out in the next budget round; it is just moderately less than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U27	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U28	Good President! Good Governor of Eesti Pank! The development of start-up knowledge-based and high-tech companies depends to a large extent on investment in R &amp; D. In the development phase, they do not usually have tangible guarantees for the lender either. Do you consider that the choice and availability of financing opportunities for the development of high-tech companies in Estonia today is sufficient, both in the seed phase and in the escalation phase, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U29	Thank you. We have not specifically examined this specific issue. There are certainly unexploited opportunities in Estonia in the sense that our financial sector is very banking-driven in Europe at large, but to some extent even more relief. Other sources of financing are limited, be it the issue of securities or shares, especially in the case of small enterprises. This is partly inevitable, in the sense that in a large country, when it comes to Poland, for example, it is much easier to create a market because there is simply more volume. In a small country, it is much harder to provide liquidity. So I guess we can never expect to have an instrumentarium as wide as any other country. It is certainly possible, however, to see if there is any way to reduce the banking focus quietly, to create new instruments. I know that we are working here, for example, on the issue of covered bonds, which may not be very important to start-ups, but I cannot offer more precise advice at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U30	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Very dear Governor of Eesti Pank, happy birthday and congratulations to you for your excellent work! I think that no politician in this Chamber wants to talk about a general increase in the tax burden, so I am asking you. Is Estonia's current overall tax burden, which, yes, is linked to the size of GDP, 34% or the volume of GDP, sustainable if we look at the problems that Estonia is facing? I am thinking of a reduction in the labour force, an increase in the number of pensioners and, in fact, the heavy pressure on healthcare costs. Is the overall tax burden sufficient? Or what are the alternatives if we look for solutions to these problems, the overall increase in the tax burden, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U32	Thanks for the question. I think we have generally refrained from commenting on whether our country should rather be thin or thicker. This is actually your political choice. In some countries it has been decided that the country could be minimalist, with lower taxes and lower public expenditure. In other countries, a different political choice has been made, particularly in the Nordic countries, at least historically, and the country has grown quite large. This is certainly possible if there is money and if the state knows how to deal with it, then perhaps the great state is not an obstacle in itself. But if the state invests badly, it will, of course, stifle the economy. So this common rule of fist were we talking about whether this 34% is optimal, too large or too small, it is very difficult to propose. I don't know how to comment on that. Our view is that the tax system could be sufficiently growth-friendly, but above all it should at least be in line with the level of our spending and, in the long term, ensure a stable economic development.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U33	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U34	Thank you. Mr. President! We have given fire to the government's budgetary policy in this Chamber, because it is not adequate and it is not responding to the explanations that we have been given, as if the economy needs to recover. It's actually been a year and a half. The data on which there has been reason to say this have been available. The economy does not need to change fiscal policy towards deficit. But now, after a long denial, the government has promised a structural balance and a nominal surplus, which is indeed a step in the right direction, only that the reasons are incomprehensible to the Fiscal Council and also to us. How do you comment on this way of forecasting, which takes on the one hand large macro indicators, the situation on the labour market, etc., but on the other hand adds to these forecasts individual labour-intensive things, such as sources of additional taxes on the arms industry or national construction, which would help to improve the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U35	Your time...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U36	Is Eesti Pank doing something like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U37	Thank you for your question. I have not followed all the details specifically now, but the problem you are talking about is certainly important. As I said earlier, this message is welcome, but it depends on the details we would not want it all to be put together by smoke and mirrors, but that everything would be realistic, i.e. the revenues would be real revenues and the costs would be properly estimated. I think it is important to think about the overall balance in the situation of full employment. If we are talking about, for example, some kind of weapons industry in Estonia starting to develop and attract workers from somewhere else, then the company in this sector, the gun company may grow, but somewhere else in the economy, there is exactly the same decline. If we are already at full employment, we cannot expect this employment to grow very quickly. This should be considered very carefully before we expect that there will be very simply more revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U38	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U39	Mr President, thank you very much. The bank no longer exists within the meaning of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The circulation bank doesn't control, the money it doesn't issue, the inflation it can't influence. Money laundering in Danskes was discovered not by the bank, but by the Financial Inspectorate. In the course of the state reform, would it be appropriate to liquidate Eesti Pank as an unimportant institution, transfer these functions to the Financial Supervision Authority, where the control capacity is undoubtedly greater? Could it be replaced by the creation of the office of the delegate of the Republic of Estonia at the European Central Bank, with its own apparatus, 10, 15 or 20 people, plus giving Eesti Pank's analytical capacity elsewhere, very possibly to the private sector where it would certainly find more effective use and where it would be heard much more?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U40	Thank you for your question. I don't think you're surprised when I say that this is neither feasible nor a very good idea. Let us start by being now, as I mentioned earlier, the smallest central bank in Europe, 230 employees. I think that every other central bank, including Cyprus, Malta and Luxembourg, is certainly at least 300. In Germany there are 10,000 employees of the central bank, in France 12000. Of course, these are larger countries, but I would like to think that it is probably not the case that all 18 countries are even dumber than we are, we are all in the wrong direction and nobody needs central banks. This is partly because the whole Eurosystem is structured in this way: we decide in a uniform way, but we implement it in a decentralised way. If we think that the whole functionality could move to Frankfurt, so that Frankfurt will become bills and all other services, it is simply not realistic. And if we only think about how these banknotes will appear in Estonia, it is not a magical activity, it is because of the specific employees of Eesti Pank who carry the money, issue it, etc. So, in a decentralised system, we can't get over or around the fact that we need our own central bank. Luxembourg has the most marked example. Before joining the euro area, Luxembourg did not have its own central bank and had to create it because these things were implemented in a decentralised manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U41	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U42	Vice President! Mr President, congratulations to you and your collective on the 99th birthday of Eesti Pank! And, of course, thank you for a thorough and constructive presentation. But my question goes on from here. I am not so radical as a good colleague, Igor Gräzin, but in the reform of the state, which we have a hot topic and which we are talking about intensively, one of the main components is the reduction in the number of bureaucrats, the reduction in the number of people working in the public sector. Despite the fact that you are saying and your annual report also states that you have 234 employees at the end of the year and 252 employees with a contract of employment, I would still ask this question: are there opportunities to reduce the number of employees here? Who should be taking the lead in this matter, either the European Central Bank, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, the Governor of Eesti Pank, the Executive Board or the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U43	Thank you for your question. I'm sure if you start looking very accurately, you can find some options here and there. Some of them are deceiving, in the sense that we can "outsource" some services, take our own security service, give it to the private sector, buy it in, buy IT services, buy in cleaning service, etc. It can be done, some central banks have done so. We have been rather conservative in this area. I don't think there's gonna be any financial savings. For us, the current choice is important because our building, our institution, performs very important functions. Do we want unknown people moving around our house at night? Rather, it is important to us that we know who is in our house, so they should be in our spiritual letter. I do understand this motivation, it seems, why we are needed at all, if the euro is now, etc. Six years ago, when I started working, I went over everything by department. If we start looking at what we have to deal with and what tasks the country has given us, there is nothing that can be reduced here to achieve a great deal of victory. I do not think that will come because, as I said, all the other countries have gone through the same process and, in one way or another, have come to the conclusion that the central banks should be much, much bigger than what we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U44	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U45	Good manager! Good bank president! Let's talk about public debt. Estonia has excelled with the masochistic approach to minimise debt, and indeed, we have the lowest public debt in Europe, less than 10%. But at the same time, we are guided by the United States, whether or not we pay 2% for NATO, etc. What would happen if Estonia took the same line that we had a sovereign debt as in the United States or Germany, or if it were based on the 60% that was allowed? This would mean that we could raise public debt at least six times. What would happen to the Estonian state if we did?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U46	Thank you for your question. I think that if we woke up tomorrow and our public debt was 20% instead of 10%, we would probably pay a little more to serve the debt. Maybe this isn't the end of the world yet, but the question is how do we get from 10 to 20 and whether it's useful in our situation. Our position has now been that, if the economy is already doing very well and we start to accumulate debt, i.e. to spend money, and if the economy is already in full employment and the state starts to lure people away from the private sector, problems will arise and the process of raising debt itself will pay us a great deal. Many countries have encountered such problems because of their banking sector. For example, Latvia's debt is ours, let's say, four times as much, partly because a few years ago they had a banking crisis from which a domestic bank had to bail them out, and public debt grew exponentially. We have this low debt partly because we have not had such banking rescue problems and the state has not had to bear such costs. In Ireland, debt was once 25% of GDP and increased by more than 100% of GDP after the banking crisis. I'm sure no one likes that growth. I think we have had luck with our banking sector, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U47	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, thank you for this presentation and overview. Yesterday, at the meeting of the National Audit Committee, the representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that the reduction in European Union money in our national budget and actively talking about it is either taboo or already obsolete. We should no longer talk as much about such an exit strategy as such. Although the budget is decreasing, we are going to have taxpayers' money and we should no longer talk so much about, for example, austerity or optimization. From your presentation today, it can be concluded that we should, however, talk about the reduction in the European Union's money and the consequent impact on our state budget. Is that right? Can it be observed that the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank have a slightly different understanding of the issues related to the reduction of European Union funds here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U49	Thank you for your question. I have not read these specific points of view, but I would say that the reduction in European Union money is certainly an inevitable reality on the one hand, but cannot be overdramaticised on the other, in the sense that not everyone disappears overnight. At present, we receive, as a net, about 3% of GDP from European Union funds. If it falls to 2% or 1% in the future, it will be visible for a long time, we will manage and we can start to take this into account now. I think that is one of the reasons why we could, in the current situation, where the economy is already doing well, collect these stocks a little bit, because perhaps in the future we really need to start paying for this money partly by borrowing. As the last questioner said, we have this potential. If, for example, we happen to be at a low point at this point in time, because the European Union's money is shrinking, then, of course, at that point in time, part of the money could at least temporarily be levelled at some sort of moderate borrowing during this transitional period.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U50	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U51	Thank you. Mr President, thank you for these debates, both in this Chamber and in the Commission. You have pointed out on several occasions that it is reasonable for the government to influence the economy and not to allow it to overheat. You referred in this open conversation to how the partners' economies have grown and, as a result, to our own. But now our question about the possibilities of the central bank and perhaps even more than the European Central Bank, where the buying-in of bonds has been agreed, which Eesti Pank must also participate in. What is your assessment of how long this process will last, that the central bank is trying to significantly boost the European economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U52	Thank you. No, that, of course, is what we keep watching in Frankfurt, discussing it, and sometimes we make decisions. There has already been a moderate normalisation over the last year-and-a-half, in the sense that the stronger the euro area economy becomes, the stronger we can be. Sooner or later, inflation growth will be a little stronger, and so we can slowly begin to calibrate our monetary policy, tighten it up. As I was saying, there was a period when we bought 80 billion of these six bonds, and now this volume has fallen by over half. We have now said that we will continue at this rate until September and then look at the situation. So far, we haven't decided exactly what will happen after September, but in the coming months, we will definitely have to make some decisions. The stronger the state of the economy, the stronger we are in moderate inflation growth, the faster we can get out. Exit is growing out of good news. The better the news is, the faster the moderate exit can be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U53	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! On several occasions you have said from this remote that everything is fine, the economy is doing well. However, if growth is mainly driven by demand, rather than by companies' production capacity and labour productivity growth, are we not dealing with a small amount of self-deception or self-reflection here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U55	Very good question and comment. I think that by evaluating Estonia's economic growth, we will naturally rejoice if the economy is doing well, but the central bankers will probably not be happy again if the economy grows so fast that imbalances are created that will create some kind of counter-impact in the future. Again, I am saying that the budget could rather be in nominal surplus. Our estimate is that currently, the economy is growing slightly above its potential of 5% of economic growth is not sustainable; that is what we are clearly saying. Instead of continuing for a few years with 5% and then following a very rapid recession, it would be better to smooth this cycle with the current steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U56	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U57	Thank you. I have a question, very practical. We created this highly necessary independent budget committee with Eesti Pank by law a few years ago. But the other day, looking at the news, I was surprised, I'm telling you the truth, and I was wondering how this committee practically works. One way is that he gets the budget strategy, there are dignified and smart people who read it out and give an assessment. But I wondered what would happen if they didn't understand some of the places. Are they asking the government and possibly the government is not responding to it, or are they not asking questions at all? At the moment, there was a feeling that the government and the fiscal council could have talked a little bit among themselves and that there would have been no news. How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U58	Thank you for your question. I think it would be best to present this to Professor Eamets, for example. He can tell us how the members of the Board see it. I think that there are certain moments in the laws and regulations in which the Fiscal Council needs to be consulted. This is such a formal process, when a step has been taken, it will be sent to the Fiscal Council for comment. This, of course, does not preclude a more informal dialogue in the meantime. And I think it would be very welcome if it could be introduced in addition to formality. This is the same thing as I am standing before you now, and it is my formal duty once a year to present an annual report to you here, but that does not prevent you from inviting me or other employees of Eesti Pank to committees, political groups, etc. Perhaps the same approach could be achieved in this area as well. It seems to me that at least this year this calendar was pretty good. There's time. But I remember last year everything was done very quickly. I think that the Fiscal Council did not really have much time to get into these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U59	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U60	Thank you, good manager. Mr Hansson! Estonia's gold reserves are known to be the smallest in Europe; they are even smaller than our Baltic neighbours. Do you think that the situation where Eesti Pank's stocks are even smaller than those of some private companies does not seem a bit silly? Are you planning on increasing them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U61	Thank you for your question. All central banks think about how to compile their investment portfolio. More than bonds can be added, we have added stock funds over the years, and we now have some gold. Several decades ago, it was decided that Estonia would sell most of its gold and invest this money in interest-producing bonds. With such questions, perhaps we will be wise afterwards as to whether it was a good decision or not. I think that the fact that he does not produce any income speaks against gold is that the central bank must live on its independent incomes. As long as the interest rates were relatively high, it made sense to buy bonds. But it can be kept under review whether such a relatively small proportion is justified. I'm sure that's what we're doing on the rolling road. It cannot be ruled out that, in the future, we can review these options and, for example, increase the share of gold.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U62	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U63	Thank you. You said 5% is too quick to move, but unfortunately we cannot catch up with this 5% wealthy Europe. But what I really wanted to ask is how you will see our future if, according to the new budget plan of the European Union, the share of support funds is reduced and the contributions of countries, including Estonia, to the European Union are likely to increase. How do you predict our future in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U64	Thank you for your question. I think there are two issues. One is the overall budget of the European Union. It is now about 1% of the European Union's GDP, and politicians must decide whether we are increasing or reducing it. Obviously, different countries are pulling in different directions. The second issue is what happens after the UK leaves. As I mentioned earlier, the United Kingdom has been a net contributor and this will certainly complicate the perspective of the remaining net beneficiaries. The third dimension is enrichment. We are, of course, very happy that Estonia's GDP per capita is increasing compared to the European Union average. I wouldn't want to see us growing slowly to get more euro money. So, again, the decline grows out of the good news. I'd rather be rich, but get a little less than poor and get a lot. But you just have to see it coming somehow. That's very predictable. Broadly speaking, it is quite clear that in the future, the amounts will be smaller than they are today. It's just a question of details. If we at least know that such a reduction is taking place, we can prepare ourselves in good time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U65	Thank you, Governor of Eesti Pank, for your presentation and for answering questions! We open negotiations, representatives of the political groups can take the floor. On behalf of Enn Meri Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It was very interesting to hear the President of Eesti Pank's understanding of what we have here and what we do not have. I wrote down a few things, and they came up with a few things. The shortage of labour is still quite important, I understood, and it was said that our economy is developing or, say, inadequate development. Higher education was also mentioned here. In my understanding, these things belong together. It just means, as I see it, that we have our education system, that we produce quite a lot of people who come out of there with a diploma, but not perhaps with the kind of skills that the labour market needs and needs to develop us further. The economy depends very much on education. I would ask my fellow Members to point out that perhaps it is time to review our education system and that we really produce the people we need.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U67	Thank you, Enn Meri! There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations, so I will close the negotiations. We have closed the debate on the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U68	We are going to the second item, the amendment of the Defence Forces Order Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, consequently, the second reading of the draft law amending other laws. Mr Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, would like to speak as a rapporteur for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft under discussion on 5 March and its first reading was completed on 21 March. No amendments to the draft were tabled outside the commission by the deadline of 4 April, including 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting of 5 April, 10 April and 30 April before submitting it to second reading. At the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 5 April, Chancellor of the Ministry of Defence Jonathan Vseviov and also a representative of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence took part. The following are the amendments underlined in the text of the second reading of the draft. These are, in particular, amendments specifying the draft, the Committee on National Defence as the lead commission, the more detailed reasons for which are contained in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft. Some examples for you. Amendment 3 excludes § 13 (1) from the Defence Forces Organisation Act, which states that the military unit is a brigade, a group, a battalion, a division, a fleet and a base. According to this restrictive list, there is no need and the Government of the Republic is left free to decide on the establishment of the names of the structural units as a result of the amendment. Amendment 7 concerns the salary of the Commander of the Defence Forces. The appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces remains the competence of the Government of the Republic, but there is no reasonable need for the Government of the Republic to determine the basic salary of the Commander of the Defence Forces. The basic salary of the managers of other so-called "power offices" is also determined by the Minister responsible for the field. The amendment harmonises the practice of determining basic salaries. The National Defence Committee made several linguistic and norm technical corrections to the draft on a proposal from the Secretary-General of the Language Editor and Counsellor-Secretariat of the National Defence Committee. The amendments are also underlined in the draft text. Officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the initiator of the draft act supported the clarifications of the National Defence Commission. Now to procedural decisions. At its meeting on 30 April (consensus), the National Defence Committee approved the draft text at second reading, the list of amendments and also the explanatory memorandum. At its meeting on 5 April (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 3 May, or today, and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-03_U70	Thank you, Chairman of the National Defence Commission. No questions for you. We are going to examine the amendments... I'm sorry! I'm opening negotiations. Anybody want to negotiate? No, I don't. Then we will go to the examination of the amendments. Amendment 1, Amendment 2, Amendment 3, Amendment 4, Amendment 5, Amendment 6 and Amendment 7. We have examined all the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 594 be terminated. The second reading has been completed, and our agenda for today has also been exhausted. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 11.10 a.m.
