ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. I'm sorry about my runny nose, but there's no other nose to take. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 34 members of the Riigikogu are currently present in Question Time. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection are members of the government. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a more specific question, because there are eight questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U2	The first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and the first questioner is Krista Aru. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Estonia needs major investments in the economy, Estonian timber needs to be deserved ♪ these views are clear to all of us. What is your position as Prime Minister on the special plan launched in May 2017 in a situation where two of your coalition partners have expressed their clear support for its suspension and where the local government, whose territory was planned for the wood refining plant at its original stage, is opposed to it? What is your position today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for that question. I agree with your first two statements 100%. I might just make an addition. If you said that Estonia needs large investments, I would say that Estonia also needs smaller investments, i.e. both Estonian capital and its companies and foreign investments. I think that Estonia must maintain, say, an open business and investment line, it has been important and has also brought us success. On the other hand, you said about one of our most important natural resources, wood, that it needs a higher end value. In any case, I will sign both positions. Thirdly, the current situation and my position. I have said that I believe that these debates should be in the office of the Government of the Republic in the near future. I very much hope that this could take place already this month, I mean June, when a mid-term review is made and a decision is made on how to proceed from here. I have spoken on several occasions about the principle of sustainable development and will continue to do so, because I think it is important to seek consensus between the economic and natural environment, as well as the social environment. I think the signals that have come from South Estonia, the shores of the Emajõgi River and the city of Tartu are quite serious and will certainly determine the future plans of the government. The government has decided collegially to initiate a special plan and the following decisions must also be taken jointly by the government. My point is that in the near future, an interim report must be made in the office and this serious debate must be held.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U5	Krista Aru, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. You've informed me that in June it's probably gonna be that big decision-making point. Will there be any alternative options for this wood refining plant to come to in Estonia by then? Kundat has been proposed in Tartu Postimees. Has Kunda been spoken to? Will another possible location between forests in Tabivere be further discussed? What are the alternatives and are there any other options?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U7	Thank you, too, for this substantive question. In my opinion, Estonia's strength is very much our flexibility. If there is still a very large investment, and undoubtedly if the amount of investment raised is one billion Circa, then in the Estonian context it is a very large investment, then the question is whether we have potential investors in Kunda, somewhere else, third place or fourth place, and who is interested in it. As far as I have the information, the investor who is going to create such a plant must certainly look at the transport shoulder, the alternative economic positions, whether he will survive in the future and whether these investments will pay off. Of course, he must rely on natural resources, but he must also, in my opinion, take the views of the community into account. There is really a chance that the state itself, all alone, will go on with a special plan and say that in the future there might be an investor who wants to create this plant, and we will explore this area. This progress, after all, means carrying out these studies on the taxpayer's wallet. However, the current situation is that the investor has said he has an interest, the state announces all procurements, but it is financed by the private sector. As far as I can tell, this investor has no interest in going anywhere else. So there's no reason to talk about extension in this case, at least according to the information I know, because there's no other party interested in making an investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U9	Thank you, dear waitress. Very dear Prime Minister! If you follow all this saga, I think the government has already made one very big miss here in its initial phase. Before it was decided to establish a special plan, the local community should have been involved in the pre-phase in order to avoid subsequent disputes. At the moment, it seems that the company will actually get the most damage that could come from this case, because in the future investors will become very timid and will no longer dare to invest in Estonia. But yesterday you said in the "Prime Minister's Class" on Vikerraadio that you do not understand why your coalition partners have made such statements that it should be interrupted because, according to you, there is no new information on the continuation of the plant plan. Are you in a different information room or haven't you been able to talk to each other? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U10	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, I have already recognised you and I will do it again: I think your reaction rate is impressive, you can always put yourself in this Question Time for the first time after the main issue. Your question, of course, is whether the explanations to the community have been sufficient. No, it's not. I think that this is one aspect that the private sector and potential investors should have done better, that these discussions could have been much more. We're told these "beings" don't cost anything, and this "beings" doesn't cost anything in the current situation. That is the wisdom that we can take with us into the future. That was also why I said that Estonia was open to investment, to large investments. Estonia is definitely business friendly. This is definitely the message we're holding. If you're asking me if we're not talking or talking, I'll tell you, of course, we're communicating, and we're really busy. It is clear that people from Tartu do not agree either. There are those who say there is no way this factory can come. At the same time, if we take the political line, we will see that your party is completely broken on this issue, too. The mayor of your party says this factory is not allowed to come. The Vice-President of the European Commission, the former Prime Minister and the President of the Reform Party say that this factory must not come under any circumstances. At the same time, the President of the Reform Party, Kaja Kallas, says that research should be continued. So I guess that balance has to be found. What has changed between the initiation of a special plan and today's state is, of course, that the opposition of the community and also of the municipality is significant. It hasn't decreased, and I'd say it's even increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U12	Next comes the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson, asking Urmas Kruuse. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Several committees and the public have had a very big debate about the form in which your proposed free transport should take place in Estonia. You were also present at the last joint meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Now I would like to ask over that I understand correctly, and also those people who have not yet understood what the regulation that you have signed allows. In a clear yes or no words, say that if public transport centres wish to set a zero price by group, for example for students or older people, whether the regulation you have issued will allow it in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U14	Thank you for the question, and also for keeping the organisation of public transport under constant attention. I think that, before a free bus ride takes place on 1 July in very many counties, namely at least ten counties, there is a great deal to be said about these issues, so that people know: if they have a valid public transport card, they will be able to travel in their own county and visit another county free of charge. The ten counties that have now made the decision are Põlva, Võru and Valgamaa, Hiiumaa, Saaremaa and Läänemaa and Tartumaa, Jõgevamaa, Järvamaa and Ida-Virumaa in Southeast Estonia. I follow the guidelines given by the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu has adopted this year's state budget and its distribution gives us the opportunity to pay off 100% of the current county network. Perhaps in every county, the network is covered by a subsidy from the state budget. Last year, two thirds of the country's subsidy came, one third of the ticket money. Every county can arrange a free ride. If they do, they will also have the possibility to compact the lines, and if they do not, there will still be a possibility to compact the lines. As far as I know, there are five counties where the current system is under consideration. The Ministerial Regulation provides an opportunity to use different routes from 1 July either to go on a zero-price ticket or to continue with the current ticket price or to make a discount. If there's a price reduction, this county's just gonna have less ticket revenue. The Ministerial Order, signed on 30 April, does not take away any of the existing options. All the possibilities created by the organisation of rural parents or by the current Public Transport Act still exist. This was also stated at the joint meeting of the Committee on Rural and Economic Affairs. The possibility of granting incentives in addition to those provided for in the Regulation is stated in § 38 of the Public Transport Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U15	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U16	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! When dealing with people in rural areas, it turns out that, surprisingly, it is not important for them to have a free ride, but it is more important to have a quality, or a busy bus on one line or another. What are your incentives for local transport centres and municipalities to focus on quality? When they met with the students' representatives, their concerns came out, for example, that they were unable to take part in the circles of interest because the bus schedule did not allow it. Moreover, older people have a big problem: why do they have to walk around with large bags of food for half a day before they finally get on the bus? What are your very specific incentives to improve the quality of service, i.e. schedules, in the case of free public transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U17	Thank you for your question. Here it should be borne in mind that the state budget does not only provide an opportunity to cover the current ticket money, which amounted to EUR 11 million per year, a subsidy of EUR 21 million so far, but also a very important part of the additional funding for increasing the number of routes. This year, we have 3.3 million extra euros to tighten up the lines. If we look at history, in the last 14 years, the same amount has come together. Maybe we can compact the lines in the same volume as previously divided into 14 years. If we look at the past, the trend in most counties was to pull the lines together and growth only occurred in Harjumaa, which is natural because Harjumaa has a lot of travelers, but it has not contributed to the density of the routes in the rest of Estonia. At present, the extra money is not only for Harjumaa to tighten the lines, but is the right of all counties. I think it is also important that any choice is made by the counties in relation to the price of the bus ticket, they have the means to tighten the routes. But again, how do you plan bus routes so that the local residents are satisfied? Neither the Road Administration nor the Ministry are planning bus schedules. In the past, they were planned by public transport centres in four counties, while the rest were planned by county governments. From 1 January, all Estonian counties are covered by public transport centres. They are actually made up of representatives of the municipality and, in addition, they have had the opportunity to hire more logistics. So I believe that the service will not only be denser in the future, but will also better meet the expectations of local people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You are completely ignoring the answer to the question. After all, my question was that if these same transport centres decided to offer a free ticket to students, for example, would the state compensate for it? You don't want to answer that question. The prime minister yesterday at his briefing at the radio studio, when the reporter asked him, actually answered that. He said flexibility is allowed. If it has been decided on the wrong grounds and knowing that the ticket price will not be compensated, but now it turns out that this is the case, can they change their decisions? Minister, please answer the question. If the transport centres decide today to offer a zero-price ticket to students or the elderly, will the state compensate for this amount or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U20	Thank you for your question, Mr Kruuse. Public transport centres have made their decisions in May and nothing has changed since then with regard to the regulation or the law. They're all in the same feed. Now that you're introducing a law, you can see in § 38 of the Act that, on the basis of a proposal from the carrier, travel discounts may be granted. If the carrier makes a ride on commercial lines or taxis, the carrier shall pay. If it makes a public service contract, it does not change the amount of the subsidy. For example, Elron, which serves rail passengers under a public service contract, has used this advantage by the carrier. This has not affected the subsidy paid by the State. And there are exactly the same possibilities for those counties that do not want to for any reason, but for this reason they have to explain why they have to switch to zero-price tickets. This is the same question that I also discussed with representatives of the Northern Estonian Public Transport Centre. They want the same rights as Elron when acting under a public service contract. If my understanding is difficult for you, untie the law and read in peace § 38.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U22	Next, Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva will answer and ask Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U23	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, In the first half of May, your new colleague in the ministry, Mrs Riina Sikkut, received the public's attention by stating that she did not intend to bring down the rate of VAT on medicines on the government table. VAT on medicines rose to 9% in 2009, and this is one of the highest in Europe. Your field of competence in the Ministry of Social Affairs also includes people with special needs and disabilities, for whom aids have been taxed in the same way as medicines at a rate of 9% VAT. At the same time, we can give examples of Britain and Ireland, where it is 0%, Malta, Hungary and Lithuania are 5%, but we have 9%. Has this been a matter for you to discuss in the government and to work for so that the VAT rate could be zero percent?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U24	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I also read your article today in Sakala, and I am surprised that you operate with the knowledge that has been ten years ago, you are talking about the cost of medicines from a ten-year-old survey. Although this concerns the area of the Minister for Health and Labour, it should be noted that this year there are major changes in the reimbursement of medicines. This means that if the person's own contribution to the payment of preferential medicines is already more than EUR 100 in the current year, the additional benefit will be 50% and 90% for the own contribution of more than EUR 300. So, in fact, the government has already dealt with this issue. Now to the aids. It seems to me, a good questioner, that you are not familiar with the arrangements for selling aids in the Republic of Estonia and the arrangements for offering benefits. The point is that the Republic of Estonia has built up a completely different system since 2016 than it was before, and that is why the problems in this regard are different. At present, it is possible to purchase aids on preferential terms in all age groups. These favourable conditions are slightly different for children, working age and older people. For example, in the case of children with disabilities, all aids are at a preferential rate of 90%. In the case of working age, these rates vary, while in the case of older people, they also vary. If disability is required for working age, there is no disability requirement for the elderly, but there are different benefit rates. In addition, aids at a preferential price can be obtained for shorter periods on the basis of a medical certificate for working age and children without disability. Today, our goal is to review this arrangement so that people can obtain all the necessary tools as well as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U25	Jaak Madison, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Yes, I have, of course, been familiar with the arrangements for granting incentives for medicines, which fall within the remit of your colleague, as well as with the issue of disability aids. But I will continue my question from here. The IRL has so far fought for a clear, uniform, transparent tax system. Therefore, I simply have the question of creating double incentive schemes depending on age groups, but at the same time keeping the VAT rate at the highest level in Europe, rather than creating the most transparent, clear and unambiguous tax system possible. So, my question is why we create special incentives for certain groups, but we tax medicines at the rate of VAT, which is the highest in European countries. Could it not be an option for you to create clarity and transparency in taxes, as the IRL has argued over the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U27	Thank you. If you are proposing the creation of a tax system that is as uniform and clear as possible, i.e. a 20% VAT rate for aid instruments, then I absolutely do not agree with that. I don't agree with that. This would be clearer, but since, in certain cases, people still buy some tools without an advantage, I do not think it is appropriate. Speaking of the aid that the country receives from this system, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, if, for example, in 2016, the state subsidised or, say, reimbursed aid to those in need for EUR 6.6 million, the amount last year was more than EUR 11 million, and this year it is planned to be EUR 12 million. Next year, we have agreed that there will no longer be a specific amount in the budget to compensate for the aid and that the reimbursement of the aid will be cost-based. It means that it is flexible, understandable and much simpler. It is also worth noting that some products that are entirely ordinary products, i.e. are not generally aid instruments and are subject to 20% VAT, can be applied for as an aid instrument and benefit from the aid. Maybe there's a difference. Looking at our system, a system that is increasingly moving towards flexibility and also comprehension has also attracted attention in other countries. The Latvians are currently making efforts to implement a similar reimbursement system in their own country, because they believe that it has produced good results.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U28	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Medical aids and technical aids, which we deal with slightly differently, also have a different legislative framework, although there is little difference, because people in need of aid in the same way, but they are now burdened with VAT in the same way. Has it been discussed that VAT could be reduced, for example from 9% to even lower? Indeed, aids are very expensive, and even this 10% share is often too much for people. Of course, the local government will also be able to help pay for the aid if it is no longer possible, but this is still a problem. You also brought in special procedures. When and how is it planned to revise the procedure for special procedures and, for example, to increase this ceiling so that the instrument of more than EUR 1000 does not already go under the special procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U30	Thank you. In the case of VAT, as I said, there are different products, i.e. there are also common products, which is 20%, but it is still possible to get a discount on the aid instrument. So in this sense, the reduction in VAT may not have any effect on all products. Practitioners, financial specialists, too, say that VAT reductions often do not give rise to any price effect for specific products that do not have a large overall market. So if we already have a system with which we can change these aid rates nationally, then this lever is probably what we can go on with. You asked whether we were going to review the decisions of the special procedures. At the moment, this process is actually going in two directions: firstly, there are specific procedures, thresholds, marginal prices and, secondly, children's aids, where the product is often even more expensive than that of adults, because it is more specific. We want to review and change the limit prices for children's aid instruments. Similarly, it is planned to revise the quantities of certain products currently based on a monthly standard, such as diapers and other inco-products, as a very large part of the specific procedures is to increase their threshold so that they can be obtained more in pieces. So these processes are all in work and negotiations with stakeholders at the moment. There was also recently an information day, a discussion day with suppliers and sellers of these products. This is progressing, because it is still evident that the new system, which took root in 2016, has made the tools much more accessible. As a result, sales points and sales points across Estonia have increased by five times more. As I said, the amount of money will increase, more money will be planned for next year. So, indeed, all the processes you asked about are going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U32	The next question is again answered by Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva, asking Monika Haukanõm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Let us now talk about the care of the elderly and the family's concern about paying for the general care home. We have a family law that says very specifically that the family has a maintenance obligation. On the other hand, we have the Social Welfare Act, which says that the municipality must help. The average pension is 446 euros, but the average cost of a nursing home is about twice as high, the difference is quite high. There was an article in the country paper that probably caused a lot of noise. Its title was something that you say to hungry people: go ask the local government, don't have to starve. By doing so, you actually chased the municipalities and perhaps gave a little too much hope to the families you care about. You also said that local governments have received unmarked money, that is 30 million euros, which we should now talk about. How much of this 30 million has gone to the general care home to compensate for the cost of the place. How many people have benefited from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U34	Thank you. That is a very good question, because I have noticed that members of the Riigikogu also share false information about this subject or about it, unfortunately. They only insist on family law, but they forget that we have the Social Welfare Act adopted in the Riigikogu, which says that the social welfare services organised by the local government must be available, also at their own cost. Indeed, the family law states that the primary obligation to support family members is the family, but the local government still has to organise care services, social services, including so-called nursing home services. In order to be able to understand things more easily, a guide has also been prepared last year, which tells us how to take into account the care burden that the family has, or how much it is right to ask family members, such as children or adult grandchildren, to take part in paying for this service. This guide is available on the website of the State Chancellery. This year we also want to train local governments legally so that they have this knowledge. Because we have noticed that because there are a lot of people who have been intimidated by this family law, well not exactly scared, but there has been a lot of talk about it, they feel that they do not have the right to assistance. Indeed, the local authority must assess the need for aid and, if necessary, pay the difference. When it comes to the article on the Maaleht, the Minister, of course, does not have the right to write the headlines of the newspaper, but as far as the substance is concerned, it is indeed the case that local authorities have the obligation to do so. Of course, local authorities are very different. These municipalities, where the problems are probably bigger, also received more phone calls. Others will spread their hands and say that we have negotiated these matters in the municipality, and there will be no problem with it. Of course, when it comes to 30 million, it is not that 30 million more money that has come to local authorities, but, in fact, more than 100 million euros was received as an annex to the compensatory fund and income tax for that year, but 30 was extra money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U35	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In fact, I also asked if you had any information on how much it has been helpful and whether the money is actually being earmarked, even though it is not there. As we know, on 1 April, the pension rose. This also means that many nursing homes raised the cost of their nursing home at the beginning of the year or on 1 April, and not that twenty euros, like the pension increase, but that some places will have to go more than 100 euros a month. In fact, this is a very serious problem and municipalities are not quick to fulfil their obligation. Indeed, the law says that a family must not lose its standard of living, but it is very difficult because people have car leases, flat leases, or anything. One solution is the provision of care insurance. Yes, I know that the World Bank does not recommend it to Estonia, we are too small. At the same time, the World Bank never recommended that we switch to Estonian money, so I would not take it very seriously. My question is this: will there be care insurance and when?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U37	Thank you. I know that you have proposed to make social security contributions, i.e. people's pensions. I do not agree with this, because we do not have pensions that are large enough to be cut in order to create care insurance. If you ask how much of this 30 million has gone specifically to nursing homes, we cannot say that because these are the costs of the current month and the current year. Why are we talking about this? Why have I told you myself, and why did I offer this interview to Earthpaper? In order precisely to give more information about the conditions and rights we have to educate people and talk to local authorities. We have also asked for the opportunity to go to the local authorities to talk about this issue, so that it is equally understood by everyone. Now, for 30 million and 100 million, that's the extra money this year. Of course, we do not have any current information on how to use it, but we were concerned about the study of general care services. We know that not all municipalities perform their duties in the same way and maybe in some cases they do not know their duties very precisely. The analysis of social services in 2012 has shown that if the place fees of the nursing home rise to an understandable process, as the wages of the people are rising and the cost of the care services is a very large part of the wage of the employees, the average share of the local authorities paid in the place of the nursing home has decreased, even though the price of the place has risen. Perhaps people's own contribution has increased, and not in proportion to the increase in the place fee, but also by what the local government has contributed less. We would also like to see care services and preventive services that help older people to cope in a dignified and private home form a whole. While we pay more for a nursing home, the services that older people can use at home should also be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U38	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U39	Thank you. Dear Minister, A few weeks ago, an article on nursing homes appeared in the Daily Paper, where one Social Ministry official claimed that fewer nursing homes would be needed in the future, because people's life expectancy is rising and the number of healthy years of life is increasing. This seemed rather illogical to me and a little strange to me from an expert in the field. The population is ageing, the elderly are more, and indeed we live longer, but none of us will lose out in health. My logic says that more nursing homes and services in this sector will be needed in the future. I would like to ask you what your position is and how such opinions can be blown up from the Ministry of Industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U40	Thank you. I don't remember exactly that context now. However, in the case of nursing homes, if you look at the current use, you can see that about 10 to 20% of those living in a nursing home could be people who could be more independent and in a different form, i.e. they should not be institutional care. Perhaps if we had enough home services or, for example, old people's homes, where people can still live in their own apartments and support there is a minimum level of support, I have given examples of my home town or the Imavere municipality and other municipalities where such buildings exist, they can do more independently. In general, costs are lower and people's lives are also more dignified. So in that sense, it is true that nursing homes are now filled, although in fact some people could do very well elsewhere with additional help. But these places probably wouldn't be free. On the one hand, as you rightly said, the population is ageing and therefore there may be an additional need for aid. There is also a particular concern at the moment that there are no places for a more complex target group and that it is precisely those customers, such as people with dementia, who are struggling to find places. That is why, at the end of this year, we intend to announce a support measure that will be able to create more, i.e. either adapt or build new places for dementia. We've planned to have about 900 new places. In the summer of this year, perhaps soon, there should be a support measure for local authorities, which, in particular, would allow the CO2 support measure to be renovated, as well as new nursing homes to be built. So the truth is, we need new nursing homes, but equally we need services that help us to cope with the dignity of our home.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U42	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer the question posed by Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U43	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The first question I have is more abstract, more fundamental. As a wise person, and as Prime Minister, give an assessment of the situation in which the municipality receives financial support from the political party's peers influential decision-maker of the same party. And in order for this abstract case to be even easier to evaluate, let's just say, for the sake of abstraction, that in this municipality, the single authority has the same party. However, the money will be given to the influential decision-maker of this party without any contest. My question is what is your assessment and recommendation to the people of Estonia. Is this a risk of corruption, or are there good men who give money to their own?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U44	Thank you. I'm used to you having more of these specific questions. But with such an abstract question about the threat of corruption or corruption, I answer that I have said here several times that corruption has no place in the municipalities or the country. What local governments are doing to combat corruption and what the state is doing to combat corruption is important to me. This action must definitely continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U45	Kristen Michal, a more specific question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U46	Thank you. I was just wondering if you would recognize yourself and the Centre Party in Tallinn. After all, your connection with Tallinn is well known; you set up city leaders and auxiliary city leaders. In Tallinn, the Centre Party has exclusive power and you are the chairman of the Tallinn Council of this party. The NGO that belongs to you will receive money from Tallinn to organise a competition with your name on it. It could even be compared to the case of Savisaar and Hiiu Stadium. How would you appreciate this case? What's your recommendation? Is everything going right or should we do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U47	Oh, now I see what you're implying. You're referring to this competition you wanted to come to years ago and asked for political advertising to be made there. We're talking about a bicycle race at the Pirita Velodroom. Then I told you no, because this competition is not political. It is a cycling competition, it has been organised 13 or 14 times now, and it has been supported by both the private sector and the city. The number of participants has increased year after year and the event is free for all, children, dills and women and men. In my opinion, the fact that people are involved in organising such sporting events is very positive. For example, if you look around this hall, there will be a run of two Jüri Jaanson bridges in Pärnu. So pick up and do something for free, voluntarily. Believe me, people are coming. The second competition I'm helping to organize is Paul Kerese Street chess tournament. This has certainly become the biggest number of participants in Estonia, but I think it is also compared to indoor competitions. So I think that such active civil society and active members of society are important. That's your tip on the first question that there are no competitions or things. I don't know how you've been doing this, but there are, of course, calls for proposals for all kinds of NGOs and NGOs and deciding whether or not to grant full support. I understand you're now trying to wind up some new false news, and here you have to be commended, you're a great master at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U48	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U49	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I will continue with the same subject as this issue has ever been registered: a culture of governance. To begin with, you have proved to be the first Estonian government leader to be invited to attend a meeting of the Bilderberg Group at the end of this week! Could it also be a part of the development of a culture of governance for you that, after your visit, you give the public at least a brief overview of the feedback that was discussed at the meeting, the main issues and topics? As Baiba Rubesa, the manager of the joint venture set up by the Baltic States, namely Rail Baltic, has also been invited to the meeting, could the question of funding for the future of Rail Baltic be one of the issues of Bilderberg Group meetings? Could the expression of a new political culture and a new culture of governance be that you open up a little bit of this cover story?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U50	Thank you. As you rightly said, as far as I know, the representatives of our country have not been there before. We don't exactly know the order of this event. If you're asking if there might be a discussion on the future scenario of Rail Baltic, I'll say, I don't think so. I don't think they're gonna put that point on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U52	And now Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson answers the question asked by Raivo Põldaru. Please, please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! A road user fee has been in place for almost half a year, the original idea of which was probably to introduce a road user fee for foreign cars so that they would leave something in Estonia too, because nothing will come here anyway. In the first quarter, the amounts received were pretty beautiful, compared to what was planned, but it was estimated to be around 30% short, and it was not paid. How has the situation been resolved by now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U54	Thank you for your question. Yesterday, when I saw that you had a question about this, I asked for the latest information. As of yesterday, i.e. 5 June 2018, €9.9 million has been paid for road use. Of this amount, 7.4 million euros have been received from Estonian carriers and 2.5 million euros have been received from foreign carriers, i.e. about a quarter. In the case of foreign cars, you can see that they prefer a one-day ticket. As you pointed out very correctly, mostly those heavy goods vehicles that enter our territory have probably refueled somewhere else and pass through Estonian territory in less than a day. Of these heavy goods vehicles, most of them come from Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Russia, while other foreign countries account for less than 11%, so these four countries have paid most of the road user fees for foreign vehicles. You mentioned that in the first quarter, the Tax and Customs Board reached a worrying conclusion: a number of machinery which should pay the road user fee has not done so. And indeed, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board carried out an analysis and on this basis, the road user fee was always paid to 68% of all the trucks that had to pay it, including Estonian trucks, which had always paid the road user fee 62% and from abroad 77%. Warnings were issued in the first quarter and we were informed that we now have such a system in place. This is common practice for machines from Europe, because there is now only one country left in the European Union that does not charge road user fees on heavy goods vehicles, it is Finland. As far as I know, Finland will also base our model and set the road user fee from 1 January next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U55	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! It is common that if cars are checked, Estonian cars will be lined up and captured, only these vehicles will be checked. Why foreign cars are not checked has been answered by a police officer: but because it is difficult for them to pay taxes. Since taxes were originally meant for foreign cars, so that they would leave something behind for us here, we could still check them out. What about checking these cars? Are there any changes, or are they still driving without paying the road charge? Maybe the information has stopped and started to check it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U57	Indeed, these machines have now been checked and processed in cases where the road user fee has not been paid. I think the most important thing is that no distinctions are made here for its carriers and external carriers. There's one place where there's absolute control, that's the eastern border. At the eastern border, all vehicles entering the border crossing point shall be inspected. Since the beginning of the year, there have been 39902 and 60 procedures have been launched at border crossing points for non-payment of road user charges. What is important is that those against whom the procedure has been initiated have all been machines leaving Estonia via the border inspection post, i.e. they have already used our roads and have not paid. Those who enter and have not paid will be directed to pay the road user fee. Statistics say that the vast majority of the revenues of the road user fee, or 92%, will come from our official road user fee page. This is a three-language website for teemasu.ee. 92% of the funds will come from there and the customs cashier will follow, i.e. foreign machines entering the Estonian country via ports or from the eastern border. Page toll.ee is also important because each of us, or any road user who has an interest, can put the number of a passing heavy vehicle in it and see if this machine has paid the road user fee. The same possibility exists for a truck driver who has not paid the fee himself and wants to check whether the necessary tax has been paid for the machine before the wheel goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U58	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U59	Thank you. I would extend this issue to road construction, in particular to the construction of four-line roads needed in the Narva, Tartu and Pärnu directions. I understand that you are obsessed with doing this on the account of the loan money, which is certainly one way of doing it, in my opinion, a bit simple and irresponsible, but I would like your opinion on another way of financing road construction. Your government has taken about 100 million euros of tax money to Latvia last year because of excise policy. Excise duties, taxes on labour, VAT, 100 million. With this money, you could still build a very, very large, 25 kilometers of four-way road. In four years, you can complete a four-line road to your beloved city of Pärnu. Would you be willing to consider this option? Let's not introduce new taxes, let's not take new loans, make excise policy sensible, and then we'll get extra money for road construction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U60	Thank you for your question. In 2015, when excise duties on fuel were last raised in this Chamber of Riigikogu, you and I were in opposition and I voted against the increase in excise duties on fuel. Later, we managed to reverse the planned increase in diesel excise duty. The second decision you made in the shadow of this was to untie 75% of the money going on the road from fuel excise. You know what that means? Just because you untied it means there's 100 million less going to the roads than you could have done before. I think that the revenue from excise duties on fuel must be linked again to the cost of road construction. It was a mistake. I am sorry to say this, because I would still like to say good things about the previous government. But it's a good thing you've come to the same sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U61	All right, now we have to stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U62	The next question is also for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kadri Samson. Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U63	Thank you, good Chairman. Madam Minister! Last night, I discovered that the question I want to ask has been asked earlier, but I will ask you in a slightly different way, if you will. Last autumn, the Minister of Economy and Infrastructure supported Saaremaa OÜ with EUR 300000 for the Port of Mõntu. This port is owned, as you know, by Mihkel Undrest, who is also the leader of the Saaremaa region of the Central Party. At the same time, the analysis of navigation in Saaremaa was examined which vessel traffic with Latvia could be the most advantageous. The alternatives were then Riga-Roomassaare or Vents. The answer didn't exist at the time, and I don't think so yet, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications hastened to support the Port of Pleasure. Why? Did the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications know anything that the public didn't know, or was it necessary to support its own party member?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U64	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this issue has been addressed in the past. Andres Ammas made a written question on the subject. I'm carrying a print out of "Shipline research analysis towards Saaremaa-Latvia." It has been commissioned by the Island Cooperation Council and this analysis is also available on their website. It has indeed analysed the fact that the previously existing line of Mõntu was to bring more support to tourism in Saaremaa. A similar letter of support has also come from the Valvolikogu of Saaremaa, i.e. the political parties represented in the rural municipality council that form the rural municipality government. To date, I know that a special water permit has been obtained for the Port of Mõntu, the deepening works can be done after the purchase, in July, and on 14 June, i.e. next week, the Mayor of Saaremaa is also planning a work visit to Ventspils to discuss the formation of a working group to restore the Ventspils shipping line.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U65	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But the Port of Pleasant was granted support without any counterclaims. Why, for example, was the port's participation not asked for support, meaning the port's shares? For 300,000, a percentage of the shares would be natural, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U67	The port has also previously carried out works with the port's own resources. I also stress that small ports also receive grants from EAS in Estonia. And the Port of Pleasant is not the only one to receive support this year, 11 ports will receive support through EAS. On the north coast east of Tallinn, the ports of Hara, Kaberneeme, Eisma and Narva are supported, the harbour of Kakumäe and the Seaplane Harbour are supported in Tallinn, and the ports of Dirham and Alliklepa on the north coast west of the city, the marina of Pärnu Yacht Club, Vormsil Sviby's small shipport and the small shipport of Triik in Saaremaa are supported. We have actively supported small ports, otherwise a number of work would not be done. The reason why the Port of Mõntu is special compared to the ports receiving support is that it is larger than these small ports and EAS considered that it is not feasible to develop a separate support measure for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U68	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U69	Thank you. There's nothing wrong with this shipping line, and there's nothing wrong with supporting ports. However, the problem you do not understand is that the decision-making process was opaque, untraditional and violated the normal rules of procedure. It also looks corrupt. That's a problem. But I believe that this shipping line could, of course, be further developed by the people of Saaremaa also want to go to Latvia to buy cheap alcohol. Aren't you afraid that the 100 million alcohol excise duties that are not collected will be increased if the people of Saaremaa also begin to walk between Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U70	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, I have to try here to cover the data of the Ministry of Finance, probably in the near future you will have a great opportunity to talk to the Minister of Finance, who will be able to show more precisely that this 100 million is not 100 million lost tax money. According to my old memory, the Minister of Finance had some pretty effective and clear figures on this. If you do not meet him here in the Riigikogu in Question Time next week, you may find another way to discuss the matter with him. But I believe that the development of a shipping line and tourism is certainly necessary. Above all, we are looking at Latvia. Among the Latvians, it is quite popular to go to the island because they themselves do not have any. And the islanders have gone out on this shipping route to develop tourism, but not only Saaremaa, but also Hiiumaa, because it is possible to make a further journey between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, between Sõru and Triik. You can make a beautiful circle and you can win from it Läänemaa and Pärnumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U72	Mart Helme can now ask in one minute and Prime Minister Jüri Ratas can respond within two minutes. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have raised a problem that unfortunately has been made in some sort of racist undertone fake news, but the problem is serious. Indeed, our universities are being used to make it possible to legalise people from the third world who come here as so-called students, but who do not actually qualify as students. They pull down the level of study at our universities, spend our faculty on good qualifications, as is literally the supervision of students at the music academy at the music school level of children's music schools. What will the government do? The Police and Border Guard Board has also acknowledged that the problem exists and that students who disappear can be counted in hundreds, they are not lonely. Do you not think that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Interior should take this issue into consideration and find ways to put an end to this abnormal situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U74	Thank you. You began your question with a reference to what West Life wrote, i.e. a letter published on 1 June about what you said there in Lihula, Läänemaa. I think of your inappropriate comparison as this: it is known that during the days of Pentecost, leaf trees were brought into the room and the birch that went into the leaf. If I look around this honorable Riigikogu hall, no, there are no pages above your head, it has not gone to the paper. So, your metaphor didn't have any foundation, it's still not made of wood. But when we talk about whether there could be better cooperation between the PBA and HTM, the studies now show that the percentage of foreign students leaving school is lower than the percentage of Estonians leaving school. After all, it is very clearly regulated: the student must first be invited from the university, he must have successfully entered and accepted it. After that, students from countries that come from third countries or from countries that do not have a visa-free regime with Estonia must submit a visa application. After that, you must apply for a temporary residence permit and be granted a nominal period. I am absolutely convinced that the Police and Border Guard Board is working seriously with the Ministry of Education and Research here, but I would say that this is not only cooperation between HTM and the PBGB, but also cooperation with universities. However, I have nothing against improving cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U75	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, ministers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U76	Honourable Riigikogu, hello for the second time today! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U77	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Since yesterday our group chairman's button on the board was weak and the chair did not allow the bill to be handed over after that, we are correcting yesterday's mistake and we are doing so today. As has already been said, at the beginning of May, the Minister of Health and Labour of the Social Democratic Party stated that he had no intention of bringing the issue to the government of whether the VAT rate on medicines could be reduced. As we know, in 2004, after accession to the European Union, the rate of VAT increased to 5%, before entering the European Union it was 0% and in 2009, when the overall rate of VAT increased to 20%, it almost doubled: from 5% to 9%. As a result, charitable funds such as Gifted Life, who had to pay a total of EUR 126000 of VAT to the state last year, which left more than 30 people without starting cancer treatment, which is why many lives have been lost. This year they have already paid EUR 99000 in VAT within the first five months. All of this relates to the rate of VAT on medicinal products, which is currently 9%. As a result, we have submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic an amendment to the VAT Act, according to which the medicinal product, sanitary and hygiene product and medical device intended for the personal use of a disabled person within the meaning of the Medical Device Act, as defined by the decree of the Minister responsible for the field, would have a VAT rate of 0%, as is already the case in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Malta. There have been significant advantages in France, where this rate of VAT is 2.1%. So we would be in the same line with the very developed countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U78	The transfer of the preliminary claim shall take place at the beginning of the plenary session of the Riigikogu before the verification of its presence. Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to a consensual decision of the National Defence Committee yesterday's session, the National Defence Commission will initiate a draft law amending the Weapons Act. The text of the draft and explanatory memorandum were prepared in cooperation between the National Defence Commission and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. A swift initiation of the draft is necessary as, including by 14 September, Directive 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the earlier Directive on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons is to be transposed. The provisions of the draft law that have been initiated would allow for the handling of weapons that are not mentioned in the current Arms Act, in accordance with the requirements in force in the European Union, including the manufacture and repair of weapons in Estonia. I bring here, for example, warning and signal weapons, as well as acoustic weapons. The European Union will establish common technical requirements for such weapons from 14 September 2018. It also lays down uniform requirements for the marking of firearms and their parts within the European Union. Initially, the National Defence Committee considered that the provisions contained in the draft to be initiated could perhaps be included as amendments in the draft law amending the arms law, the strategic goods law, the explosives law and other laws pending in the Riigikogu 615, but this would entail an obligation to extend the draft 615 and interrupt the second reading, which would preclude the adoption and entry into force of the draft 615 law. a on 1 July. Therefore, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to initiate a separate draft law amending the Arms Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U80	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U81	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Free Party Group, I am handing over the draft law supplementing the planning law. As far as you have heard in Question Time, the Government of the Republic, in the name of the Prime Minister, has still not been able to decide what they intend to do with this special plan, which directly concerns the Tartu wood refining plant. They have initiated a special plan, but our group believes that initiating a special plan in private interest is not right in the form it is in the law. We believe that special plans that have been initiated on a private basis must be coordinated, agreed with local authorities and local communities, or local people. That's not in the law right now. We want to make a difference: in the case of nationally important objects, such as energy or defence objects, the regulation of a special plan may be in the form that it is currently in the law, but when private companies, industries come into play, the handling of a special plan must be quite different. Local authorities must have the right to state their position and it must be binding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U82	I have adopted three drafts under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U83	Agenda item 1: Third reading of draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws and the Social Welfare Act. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U84	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The re-independant Estonian state will soon be 30 years old, but in informal care, we can say that we are taking the first steps that really help people. All kinds of maintenance load studies, projects, very grateful work have been carried out by the informal carers' forum. The topic of care has been discussed extensively in the Riigikogu, and the current government has now really reached the first steps that, even a little, help the caretakers. Many of us know well that it is extremely sad to see our mother, father, husband, or child lying helpless in bed. The patient needs to be fed, watered, diapers changed, raised, etc. It often lasts for years and often there are no signs of improvement. Of course, the caretaker will do his best, but one day he will simply not make it, especially in the case of a loved one with a deep disability. In addition to spiritual and physical effort, a carer often has to quit his/her job, thus cutting off his/her period of employment, leaving his/her studies. Often these people do not get back into the labour market; they simply go down; the result is burnout and deadlock. The state will miss taxes and these people's pensions will be very small in the future. The problem still arises very suddenly and unexpectedly: a loved one gets sick or a disabled child is born. People are in the dark, they don't know the right place to ask for advice and help, they don't know any information about their few support options. The number of carers is not low: about 30,000 women and 17,000 men. It's an official number, but there's definitely some people who haven't reported it. Some of them, some 8,000 people, are already off the labour market, some work part-time. The grants granted to them from municipalities are different, slightly increased during the administrative reform, but they are still quite small. Of course, carers with deep disabilities are especially overburdened, and they work 24 hours a day. That is why I am really very pleased that it is already 1 July. a we can grant paid care leave of five days per year to a close carer or designated carer working for a person with a deep disability, up to a minimum rate of pay. This amount is paid to the employer by the Social Insurance Institution. This is, of course, just the first step. Today's draft talks about the possibilities for a close or appointed guardian of a person with a deep disability to get an additional five days' leave if they work under a contract of employment, but since January 2021, this leave is no longer a disability but a need for care. This, of course, must be established on the basis of an assessment, the manner in which we will be informed by the Ministry in 2020. It is likely that taking leave is also associated with people working under other conditions, which is currently available if there is a contract of employment. We are really legitimising the obligations of the next Riigikogu and the government, and not everyone likes it, but I think that the problem needs to be resolved further so that a comprehensive system is formed to help the caretakers. It is necessary to move forward gradually and not to deviate from the main objective. There's no price reduction here. Thank you and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U85	Mr Helme wishes to participate in the negotiations on behalf of the EKRE Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U86	Indeed, this is a law that has the necessary and good aspects that our group would like to vote for, but cannot because it has been introduced in connection with the implementing act of the Cohabitation Act. We vote against.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U87	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U88	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Riigikogu today, the final vote will be the law on the basis of which a close or appointed guardian of an adult with a deep disability will be entitled to up to five paid holiday days a year from 1 July. If, so far, the parents of disabled children or their carers have received paid care leave at the expense of the state, this possibility will soon be extended to the carers of adult disabled persons. Yes, it only somewhat alleviates the heavy burden on people with disabilities, but it is certainly a concrete step in the right direction. When the Social Democrats went to coalition negotiations, they were the only party that had the topic of informal care on the table. I very much want to acknowledge the cross-party work carried out in the Committee on Social Affairs. In this draft, which came to us from the Government and the Ministry of Social Affairs, we also wrote in after lengthy discussions that by 2020, an analysis on the subject will be carried out and solutions will be found so that nearly 10% of those working under other contracts will have the same right if their loved ones need care. The aim is to extend the range of people who are expected to have additional rest days in the coming years. We do not want this circle to be restricted to carers of persons with deep disabilities. This is how the draft obliges the Riigikogu and the government to prepare an analysis of the need for care and its assessment system by 1 January 2020. This is to ensure that this leave is based on actual maintenance needs from 2021 rather than on whether a disability has been assigned to the care provider. The Social Democrats support the bill and are glad that as early as 1 July, a large number of carers and their loved ones will have the opportunity to get this holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U89	No more requests, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 596. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws and the Social Welfare Act 596. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft, with 7 abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U90	Third reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the Law on Tobacco 595. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U91	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In bad times, any government usually attacks local governments and entrepreneurs. This was the last time between 2008 and 2011 and specifically with electricity. During this period, the electricity excise duty increased by one and a half times, the connection fee increased by three times and the renewable energy fee by almost five times. These are good times and we have the opportunity to support those from whom we have taken away something, including entrepreneurs. The current bill is one of the best things that can happen to us in this Riigikogu. Of course, this will cost some expenditure to the budget next year, given that this law will also cover approximately EUR 3 million retroactively this year, but from 2019 it will be about EUR 1.9 million. But with this, we support those who contribute to production, whose production costs exceed 20% of the cost of electricity, and we do so very energetically. The electricity excise duty will fall for these companies and these companies will only have 240 to nine times left, and it is clear that this is a very positive thing. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party supports this draft and asks everyone else to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U92	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! I vote on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on Amendments to the Law on Tobacco 595. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, with 7 abstentions. The Law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on tobacco has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U93	The third reading of the draft law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Erki Savisaar on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest replaces the current law on the expropriation of immovable property. The acquisition of immovable property in the public interest is a process of negotiation with the owner for the acquisition of immovable property and, if the owner's consent is not obtained, the expropriation of the immovable property shall be decided. So far, only buying-in of immovable property at market prices through a voluntary or forced sale was a choice; now there are more options. First of all, the urgent procedure. In the case of very small cuts, an offer is made for an urgent procedure in which no evaluation is carried out. In this case, the remuneration shall be fixed and shall relate to the average gross wage plus the incentive fee. At present it amounts to a minimum of EUR 1303. The second option is acquisition. If the value of the immovable property is higher and the landlord seeks compensation in cash, he shall be offered a remuneration which has been calculated with regard to the value of the immovable property, the material damage directly incurred and the loss of income. The principle of compensation for damage means that the person suffering the damage must be provided with a situation which is as close as possible to the fact that his immovable property would not have been acquired. If an agreement is reached with the landowner, the final fee will be increased by 20%. Thirdly, since the land is a limited resource, farmers and forest managers are not interested in financial compensation, nor are they interested in being fragmented. Alternative land management options in the form of reparcelling and land exchange are offered to address this situation. In the course of land management, the boundaries of immovable property will be changed by agreement of the owners and this will allow the land necessary for the State to be replaced by another land. The fourth option is the exchange of immovable property. There are situations where it is reasonable to carry out an exchange of immovable property. As land exchange has not been the best managed so far, the draft restricts the possibility of exchanging immovables with very different destinations and different development potentials. It follows from the principle that the immovable property to be exchanged must be similar in its intended use and be located in a similar market area. And the last choice is expropriation. If no agreement is reached with the landowners, the expropriation shall be decided on the fee already established during the proceedings and no additional incentive fee shall be paid. It is important that the transition from settlement to expropriation takes place as economically as possible. The holder of the immovable property shall be paid the fee. If his account number is not known, the fee shall be deposited in the account of the Ministry of Finance. The property of the immovable property shall be taken over after payment of the fee. However, there is also a more lenient alternative: a coercion. The obligation shall be imposed when the land can be used for its current purpose and the acquisition of the land is therefore not justified. I very much hope that these increased opportunities will sometimes make the transfer of a very painful and emotional possession more reasonable and human-friendly, thereby increasing society's sense of security and unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U95	Mr Herkel, speaking on behalf of the Free Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Free Party Group is of the opinion that this increase in opportunities for the transfer of immovable property, which the representative of the Centre Party has spoken about here, can, in many cases, take us beyond the rule of law and give the official body quite a playground and a chance, among other things, to put pressure on people. I would like to mention, for example, § 3, where it is mentioned that in the case of immovable property with a value less than 50 times the average gross wage, this process is initiated by an official body. That is why we believe that this bill, in this form, is not such that we can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U97	I'll close the negotiations. There's no further call. On the proposal of the Governing Commission, we will hold a final vote on the draft 598. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest initiated by the Government of the Republic 598. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 8 against and no abstentions. The law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U98	The third reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, the Energy Economy Organisation Act and the Natural Gas Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U99	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the Electricity Market Act in its current form creates advantages for Eesti Energia for the sudden strengthening of its monopoly position. And we do this in a situation where we pretend that the Estonian electricity market is like a free market. This is an order from a state-owned company to an official body through which a law has been made that creates powerful advantages for this same company to operate. For example, in this draft, the provisions of the State aid permit are selective, allowing Eesti Energia, unlike other market participants, to qualify as an existing producer in Tootsi wind farm and thus have the possibility to use the renewable energy support scheme. I stress once again: no other market participant would be able to participate in this support scheme; Eesti Energia would be able to do so if we adopted this law. This explains how Eesti Energia was able to pay 100 million more than competing offers in the four energy projects recently. Tootsi wind farm support amounts to 15 million euros per year and will be paid for the next 12 years, which will amount to approximately 180 million euros, which we will soon be helping to transfer to Eesti Energia by law. The exclusive advantage guaranteed to Eesti Energia by the Electricity Market Act, given by the use of the old support scheme in Toots wind farm, explains how Eesti Energia could make such a mystical offer compared to that of competitors. It has to be said that this future law paves the way for Estonian Energy not only in the market for fossil energy but also in the market for renewable and wind energy to be given the status of the state's monopoly company. The result can only be one: price increases for the consumer. I want to point out once again that if we adopt this law, we will press the button in favour of the inevitable increase in electricity prices in Estonia. A few days ago, the leader of Eesti Energia Hando Sutter came out saying that there is no such thing as the Estonian energy market, there is a single Nordic energy market where there is stock exchange trading. Of course, this is bullshit. If we look at the price of electricity on the Estonian market in recent days, it is about a third or even more, over 35% higher than in Finland, for example. Why is that? Because Estlink 1 is down, Estlink 2 is overloaded and Estonian Energia, which is already essentially monopolistic, does not increase production in its Narva stations. The company deliberately created a market deficit, which led to a very high price in Estonia. The consequence is that our people pay more for electricity and our companies pay more for electricity than in Finland, for example. When we adopt this law, we will help Eesti Energia to expand its monopoly also in the field of renewable energy, and the result can only be detrimental to our consumers, producers, technological development and the competitiveness of the economy. You can't be in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U100	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U101	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party Group is against this draft. I could read the letter from the Wind Energy Union here the same way, but I'm not doing it because we can think with our heads. Two maybe the main reasons we want to highlight. First of all, there is the heating of the Auvere station with wood, to which this law opens the way. Let us remind you that wood generates one-third of its energy in the production of wood electricity. And 2/3 of this process is going to be warmed up. So if we produce energy with wood, the only sensible solution is the cogeneration plants. And cogeneration plants are small plants that take the timber that goes to produce it from as close a region as possible. In the case of Auvere, if the maximum amount of timber is really intended to be imported there, i.e. some 50,000 cubic metres, that means that this timber should be delivered from far away, from other areas of Estonia, which in turn would reduce its 'energy' benefits by several more percent. Another major problem, as Martin mentioned earlier, is the granting of a monopoly position to Eesti Energia, in particular by leaving renewable energy subsidies to Toots' wind farm for more than 12 years. Basically, we have all cursed renewable energy charges, which are very high. Renewable energy producers are, as if, highly gold-plated, but today we are making a law that will only gold out Eesti Energia. According to simple calculation, if Tootsi wind farm receives renewable energy support in the way that this law currently allows, this means that in 12 years, Eesti Energia will receive renewable energy support of 180 million euros, which is an enormous amount. Instead, this amount could be invested in the construction of cogeneration plants and smaller, so-called distributed power plants, but unfortunately it is not. All in all, we had a great opportunity to switch from renewable energy support to a system of less supply, but at the very last moment we will be able to tackle this if this law goes through right now. We do not want it to work like this, and therefore we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U102	On behalf of the Group of the Kristen Michal Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U103	Good Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Our group has different opinions on this draft. Personally, I am supportive of this, and I hope that most of our group will do the same. Criticism has already sounded here. I'd say this bill has been dealt with for seven or eight years under three or four governments. Some governments have been good and others have been better. Let us say that these principles have been considered in the various committees, the draft has been stopped in the meantime and then moved forward. In conclusion, I would argue that this new law is better: it is progress from today's state. Yes, there is certainly criticism, but market participants have been waiting for this to be clarified for a long time. One nuance of this new law is certainly that all these support schemes mean a lower burden for the consumer. If we also look more broadly, for the Estonian state and Estonian economy, this still means that the trade in statistics can create new jobs. Now that there are perhaps good times in the economy, and now I want to say that, despite this government, it is perhaps not so topical. But a few years ago, when unemployment was very high in Virumaa, the idea of trade in statistics creating many new jobs in forestry was very topical. At the time, there were much fewer objections. I think this issue is still topical. At one point, there will certainly be some kind of cooling in the economic space. This means that all the means by which Estonia can export more and earn more revenue are good. There were different considerations in our group and, above all, I am talking about my own positive considerations here. I'm sure there's some questions, some of them sounded here, but there's more. These relate to the different nuances of this bill. But out of a sense of responsibility and a desire for Estonia to have better regulation in this area too, we rather call for this bill to be supported. We certainly do not support it 100%, but we support these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U104	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft 576 before us is a draft law that has reached the final vote in this Chamber as a result of the right long and complex procedural work. Unfortunately, this bill cannot be said to have been made for a long time. In fact, this is a good example of bad legislation that we cannot afford all of this. The draft has been put together in three-four oses like a puzzle and unfortunately the pieces of the puzzle do not fit well together. Therefore, it is as if a bit of violence has been used. For the first part of the draft, which deals directly with the route, this is perhaps the original issue of the draft and gives the opportunity to bring energy to large consumers at lower network charges, it is only positive. It is good for business and hopefully encourages energy-intensive investments in Estonia. Social Democrats are also unambiguously saying that there is a need to legitimise less renewable energy subsidies. Statistics trade and renewable energy regulations need to move forward; life itself demands this. So many of the issues in this bill are so-called constructive. The problems, however, start with renewable energy subsidies, and rightly with renewable energy subsidies paid to wind power producers. The question is what fits under the old scheme and what doesn't. As we know, the new scheme no longer fixes firm support, but leads to fewer offers. If we look at the European Commission's state aid permit and the result, we will see that the old, or EUR 53.7 grant per megawatt, remember the numbers, they are important! No wind or renewable energy projects that have started to be developed since the magical date of 31 December 2016 can be paid. The start of development shall also be deemed to be the case when a device has been ordered or construction works have been started or a firm commitment has been made to order the device. In addition, the European Commission says that the developer must have the legal title to the land, or in Estonian, the right to build this land. This right to build land is not required in the draft, although it is a clear principle of the European Commission. The same sentence has been the subject of disputes for far longer than in the last year alone. To put it plainly, the main issue is the long-stricken dispute around Tootsi wind farm, which the state company wants to develop. There is no direct right to build this land. The government reportedly re-decided on the initial decision to grant land. It is, however, as if construction had begun. The Social Democrats believe that the draft should say directly and without making mistakes that the Estonian state no longer wishes to continue with excessive support for renewable energy. The technologies have evolved, the efficiency of the windmills increased. If Lithuania has recently been able to buy renewable energy in less supply, i.e. support plus energy itself for 45 euros of megawatt-hours, then it is clearly anachronistic and wrong if Estonia pays 53.7 euros from the time of completion of the wind farm, assuming that this is the year 2021, for example, over a period of 12 years, i.e. up to 2033, plus the price of energy. In total, it can reach EUR 90 per megawatt-hour. Let us compare: 45 euros in Lithuania and 90 euros in us! If this difference of more than twofold renewable energy support were to be eliminated, 80 windmills could be built instead of the 40 windmills planned. In our opinion, there is no justification for the desire to create a cashier for a state enterprise, essentially, with a cashier's card of EUR 150 to 200 million, which comes from the public's pockets. This is not free competition. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U106	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U107	It was argued in the dispute that all the decision-making powers to grant subsidies would be transferred to another State company, Elering. You can and must go, there is no debate about it, especially when it comes to all energy issues. However, in the interests of greater legal clarity, it would be necessary to include a completely non-energetic, or property condition, which is not per se complex. I repeat: the right to build this land could be included in the bill as a requirement. This is also clearly in the European Commission's Guidelines on State aid. The dispute has been about whether we want to take on the role of judge instead of Elering. No, I don't. We want greater legal clarity and we want the general meeting of Eesti Energia, i.e. the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Industry, i.e. the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, unambiguously to confirm in this draft and also the political declaration of the Riigikogu that we do not wish to create a special situation for the state company, do not want to take twice the support of renewable energy from the pockets of the people of Estonia. The market says otherwise, and we can buy double that much renewable energy from less bids. That's all you need. There is a need for state support for free competition and legal clarity of legislation. The current draft does not do all of this and, in the opinion of the Socialists, opens the back door for excessive subsidies to the state company. It is therefore quite difficult to support this draft. On the one hand, it seems to be necessary, because life must go on, as the previous speaker said. On the other hand, the excessive preference of a certain public undertaking is not reasonable. Therefore, the social democrats, as apparently many political parties have various opinions. Personally, I cannot support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U108	On behalf of the Group of the Sven Sester Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A long-made pretty girl could say that about the bill. It must have started in 2012. The compositions of the Riigikogu have been different and the previous speaker who has just spoken to the pathos here has been involved in these processes. And today we're at third reading. To be honest, this bill has been very interesting in some ways. I have negotiated this draft with various parties, including politicians, both as chairman of the committee, but I have only been a last year chairman of the committee. I must confess to you that the accuracy of a fellow colleague-politician who is not an energy specialist negotiates with me in such a way that he is following the memos he has, which I do not know from whom he has been given, has been incredible to me. But, in conclusion, as a result of these negotiations, we have come to the conclusion that today this draft is at third reading. Several previous speakers said why this bill has been dragging on for so long, even seven or eight years. In my opinion, the answer is that there is a very high level of interest here. Very big interests are behind us! EUR 74 million of taxpayers' money is distributed into grants. 74 million! Here, within this process, attempts have been made to take the role of judge to the state, so that all disputes can be resolved by law. I can't imagine how many hours have been devoted to this bill! When you think about whether the draft procedure has been urgent, whether the procedure has been such that no interested parties have been involved, whether the procedure has been secret, I say no, no, no! The proceedings have been going on, as you know, for six or seven years, absolutely all the information has been available to all parties at all times. The Committee on Economic Affairs has organised an innumerable number of meetings in smaller circles, larger circles, all parties have had the opportunity to participate and give their input. I don't think there's any reason to blame. Has the interests of all market participants been respected? Yes, the interests of all market participants have not been respected. However, no law can be such that it expresses the interests of one market participant, one company. So it certainly isn't. When you look at the content, the darts of criticism fly forward and backwards, but from time to time it seems that some who make criticism have not even read the bill themselves. It has been criticised that, oh-oh-oh, biomass is now being used. I quote the classic: 'Come, for God's sake! " At present, perhaps before the adoption of this law, it is the case that authorising the use of biomass is the responsibility of a general meeting, i.e. a minister. According to this bill, the situation will be completely different. Now we need to do an analysis, we need to go to the Committee on the Environment, we need to go to the Committee on Economic Affairs, and finally we need to go to the government only then we can use biomass if we want to. And that is also only within the framework of statistical trade if support is to be sought. Taking down the tensions with regard to the fear that maybe now biomass will be used on a massive scale and there was no possibility before, I assure you: exactly backwards! Right upside down! If you look at what's going to be done with this bill, a couple of previous speakers have already marked it. I would also say that with this draft we clearly take more account of the interests of consumers and improve Estonia's competitiveness. How does this happen? There is currently an old support scheme and some market participants have an interest in continuing with the old support scheme. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U110	Three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U111	I understand that some have no interest in this bill being adopted. Because the old scheme is EUR 53 regardless of the market price. We are moving to a support scheme that is really starting from a lower offer. And it's in the interests of the consumer. This is less burdensome for the taxpayer and it is certainly not in the interests of some market participants. That's what this bill does! Not to mention that we are also paying attention to the various forms of renewable energy. I will give an example of a regulation which was not previously included in the draft and which has now been put there by the Committee on Economic Affairs. For plants with up to 1 MW, it is basically solar energy that will be given the opportunity to compete in its so-called league in the coming years. They do not have to compete with large, powerful renewable energy producers. And up to 50-pound stations weren't even inside when this bill came from the government to the Riigikogu. Now 50 kilovolts will be given the opportunity to remain in the old scheme until the end of 2020 so that there will also be development in this sector. And I'm not talking about the direct line that's been the original contents of this bill. The closed distribution grid wasn't in before. Now it's been introduced, and the market participants have been spoken to. Creating the possibility of a closed distribution network clearly gives Estonia a new competitive advantage. This will lower the price of electricity and provide an opportunity to build energy-intensive businesses here in the future. Once again, there has been a lot of negotiations on this draft. Yes, there are market participants who sense that they would have wanted better positions. It's understandable. They have their own interests. But today it is a good draft and I think the best proof of this is the decisions of the Economic Commission: the Commission has sent the draft to this Chamber by consensus decisions and approved both the amendments and the draft proposal for adoption at its meeting. So the IRL supports it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U112	There is no further wish for negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, the Energy Economy Organisation Act and the Natural Gas Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 576. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft, 27 against, 2 abstentions. The Act amending the Electricity Market Act, the Energy Economy Organisation Act and the Natural Gas Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U113	We will continue to read the second reading of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the Health Insurance Act 602. Social Committee waitress, committee chairman Helmen Kütt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U114	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! The second reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Health Insurance Act was suspended on 16 May. The deadline for amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 30 May. By the deadline, amendments were tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of a second reading at two meetings: 31 May and 4 June. At its meeting on 31 May, amendments to the draft were examined and procedural decisions were taken. All members of the Social Affairs Committee, Ms Maris Jesse, Deputy Secretary General of the Health Area of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Ülle Jordan, Head Specialist of the Health System Development Department, and legal advisers Jaanus Põldmaa and Susanna Jurs took part in the meeting of the Commission. First of all, Monika Haukanõm introduced the amendment proposed by the Free Party Group to appoint a member of the Riigikogu on a proposal from the Social Affairs Committee to the Health Insurance Fund Board. On this point, the opinion was expressed that this might not ensure that a representative of the opposition is appointed to the Health Insurance Fund Council, but that the representative of the opposition would not want to be part of it for any other reason than simply to get better information about what is happening at the Health Insurance Fund. Ms Haukanõm explained that an amendment was initially intended to be tabled in such a way that a vice-chairman of the Social Committee, always a member of the opposition, would be appointed to the Council. Tiina Kangro introduced the amendment of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, which aims to reduce the number of members of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund to six and remove the representative of the Riigikogu from the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund. There has been a long debate for which it is necessary, for which reason this proposal has been tabled. It was also explained that the original proposal from the Ministry to the government was six members. Legal adviser Jaanus Põldmaa pointed out that if the Commission decides to support one or the other draft, we will undoubtedly also have to discuss in the Commission amendments requiring technical improvements. He explained this precisely on the amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica. There is no need to change the current wording when taking into account the proposal of the Free Party Group. A vote was taken on the Commission. Only Monika Haukanõm, against Mr Vassilyev, voted in favour of the amendment tabled by the Free Party Group. The amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union went to the vote. Five members voted in favour of this: Igor Kravtšenko, Marika Tuus-Laul, Tiina Kangro, Viktor Vassiliev, Helmen Kütt; and four against: Jüri Jaanson, Maris Lauri, Liina Kersna, Monika Haukanõm. At the same meeting, Maris Lauri announced that she did not want to be a Commission rapporteur for the draft. This is because of political games that are not at all justified. That is why I am speaking to you here today, not as at first reading, when the Commission was represented by Maris Lauri. To me, this great honour and joy comes from ex officio, that is, from my office, and so I do this report to you here. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 6 June, today, that the second reading be closed, that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed, and that the final vote be taken. Of course, it was decided to appoint the chairman of the committee, Helmen Kütt, as there were no other candidates. All these decisions were consensual. A new Social Committee meeting took place on 4 June. As the amendment tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union was supported at the last meeting of the Commission on 31 May, we needed to revise the amendments tabled together with the Ministry of Social Affairs. They shall concern the quorum of the Governing Council meeting if more than half of the members of the Governing Council are present, including the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson of the Governing Council. A decision shall be deemed to be adopted if at least half of the members of the Governing Council vote in favour of it. Its vote was by four people: Viktor Vassilyev, Marika Tuus-Laul, Helmen Kütt, Igor Kravchenko and against two: Maris Lauri and Jüri Jaanson. The fourth amendment regulates the situation where there is a council of 6 members: from 1 September, two members of the Board have been appointed on the proposal of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, one member appointed by the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and one member nominated by the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the ministers responsible for the areas mentioned in subsection 9 of the Act. The mandate of the other members of the Supervisory Board has expired since 1 September 2018. They're still filling this place up now. It was put to the vote by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision being consensual: all eight members at the meeting voted in favour of it. Monika Haukanõm was absent from the hearing. The following decisions were taken: to propose that the second reading be completed by Viktor Vassiliev, Marika Tuus-Laul, Helmen Kütt, Igor Kravtshenko and Tiina Kangro, two: Maris Lauri, Jüri Jaanson, and to approve the draft procedural documents. It was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U115	Any questions for the waitress? Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I ask about Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. How did they justify the proposal to delete the representative of the Riigikogu and reduce the number of members of the Supervisory Board? You did not address the arguments of the author of this amendment in your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U117	Thank you very much for your question. The minutes of the Committee on Social Affairs give a pretty comprehensive overview of the debate on why this proposal was put forward. People expressed their opinion, and I, as chairman of the committee, put the amendments tabled within the deadline to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Your party has always talked about democracy and also about the role of the opposition in the governance of the country. Today we are talking about a Council that decides about a billion euros in the fate of our country, but we are quite simply and lightly discussing the proposal that there is no need to be a representative of the Riigikogu in this Council, let alone a representative of the opposition. How do you feel about that? As chairman of the committee, can you give your personal opinion on whether you think there could be a representative of the opposition of the Riigikogu in this council?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U119	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U120	Thank you very much, my good fellow official, for this question. Today I stand here as a Commission waitress. As a Social Democrat of my personal opinion, I will certainly say at the end of my third reading when I come here to give a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U121	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U122	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I came here on the remote to explain why I gave up this draft in committee and to answer the question of what happened to this draft. I'm gonna go back a little bit. I would like to remind you that the subject of discussion during the proceedings of this draft was primarily the one who represents the Riigikogu in this restricted council of the Health Insurance Fund, and also the one who is then "non-political representatives." Quite unexpectedly, during the second reading, the IRL proposed to suspend the reading of the draft. It was a surprise because there was no problem. And even more surprising was the proposal to exclude the representation of the Riigikogu at all. Don't get me wrong! I like that the board of the Health Insurance Fund is being reduced. But it was, in a sense, sad and painful to see how our colleague had to justify the position of the IRL, which he obviously did not personally support. And the answer to the question of what reason the representatives of the Riigikogu want to exclude at all was that the coalition council decided. This was the answer, there was no substantive justification. I would like to remind you that it has never been discussed in the Riigikogu that a representative of the Riigikogu should be excluded from the Board of the Health Insurance Fund at all. So do what you want, it was a political gamble and it's a political gamble. This is not serious behaviour, it is ugly and it is not dignified for the Riigikogu. It is with these things that the Riigikogu reduces its role in lawmaking. It is with this kind of thing that politicians smear their reputation, there is no justification, there is no argument, there is just a deal. I'm so sorry this happened. And that's all I wanted to say to you, so you know the background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U123	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There is much to agree with what the previous speaker has just said. The Government of the Republic, which, as far as I know, still includes three political parties, the Centre Party, the Social Democrats and the IRL, sent to the Riigikogu the draft amendment to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, which had been agreed by the coalition partners. They had agreed to reduce the number of members of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund to seven. The composition would include three politicians, two of whom would be the Minister of Health and Labour and the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control from the Riigikogu as the representative of the opposition, to be involved first in the Riigikogu and second in the opposition. In addition to politicians, there must be two employers' representatives in the Council, one trade union and one patient representative. Of course, we could discuss here whether or not politicians should be in the Council at all, but this is not a question right now, we are sticking to the subject of this draft. The Coalition considered it important that the Riigikogu and also the opposition are represented in the Health Insurance Fund Council, because it is an organisation that is vital for all of us. Let me remind you that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is EUR 1.28 billion this year, or a tenth of the state budget. The state budget has EUR 10.58 billion. This shows how important the budget line is. It has to be admitted that IRL's move was a surprise when he made a proposal to amend the Health Insurance Fund Act during the second reading to stop reading. This came as a surprise, because they did not propose amendments. The Commission expressed dissatisfaction that the Committee on Social Affairs was not represented in the Council, but rather a special committee on the control of public finances, precisely because there were substantive health policy discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs and this policy was shaped. However, the proposed amendment worked as a cold shower: the IRL does not want to increase the competence of the Health Insurance Fund Board and support its substantive work, but to make the Health Insurance Fund Board even smaller, i.e. six, more suitable and more obedient to the government. This makes it easier for the government to direct the activities of the Health Insurance Fund without the supervision of any Riigikogu, or supreme power, and to push where they want to go. Why am I talking about this? Because the activities of the IRL are destructive in the long term, they are aimed at marginalising the activities of the Riigikogu and increasing the power of the government. Yesterday, OTRK held a debate here in the large hall of the Riigikogu on the topic 'State reform and fundamentals of good administration'. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise drew our attention to the need to increase the decision-making power of the Riigikogu. Quote from yesterday: 'I very much hope that the Riigikogu will not surrender its power to the government, but rather take it back. ' We often complain in this large hall that the Riigikogu has become a rubber stamp, an extension of the government's hand and an obedient lapdog. So what do we do now? With the will and will of the IRL and, unfortunately, with the support of other coalition partners, we will take the next step! There is no need for the Riigikogu or the opposition to allow ministers to be disturbed and the Health Insurance Fund to run with their own hands and suddenly ask complicated questions or become unpleasant! What is happening is a higher class of political technology, which forced the defender of the bill to abandon his task. Yes, now there is a statement: it is a democracy, it is not to be upset or surprised! It is indeed a democracy. As I was quickly made clear, what the coalition can agree on is put on paper. However, I would remind you that sitting in a coalition will sooner or later be replaced by being in opposition. I'm asking for an extra minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U125	Please, you'll have three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U126	Finally. Even more important than that are balanced decisions, the search for and implementation of the best solutions, especially in an area as important as health. Healthcare is no place for politicianism, dark agreements and blackmail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U127	Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since history has already been mentioned here, I am also talking a little bit about history. And since I had the honour of defending this draft at first reading, there are some comments that may explain the situation. The fundamental question is that we have been kindly discussing this with a good colleague, Eiki Nestor, and at first reading, I remember, Mr Ligil had his own vision on the issue of whether the Health Insurance Board is the social parliament in which it was created, or whether he is one of the tools of executive power. At that time, one model was selected for the sickness fund, while the other model was chosen for the unemployment fund. At one point, the Government of the Republic of Estonia, which was two successive governments of the Republic, came to the view that we could redesign the Health Insurance Board on the basis of an unemployment fund model. As regards democracy, which was brought to the attention of Riigikogu Member Kruus, democracy is guaranteed through a social partnership which the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund respects nicely, using a model of 2 to 2 to 2: there are two employers, two trade unions and two representatives of the state in the Council. The plan agreed during the 2016 Taavi Rõivas government was actually to apply the same model to the Health Insurance Fund. When the current government came into office, he discussed this issue and reached such a position on the proposal put forward by the Ministry of Social Affairs that we could nevertheless include a representative of one of the opposition in the Council in order to ensure greater involvement of the opposition in such an important role in the management of state life. And then it came to the conclusion that this person could represent not so much health policy competence as the committee monitoring the financial sustainability of the Social Security Fund, the special committee on the control of the state budget. This led to the logic of parity agreed with the social partners in the first place, 2 to 2 to 2. I negotiated with the social partners; they agreed to the proposal. And as such, this coalition agreement reached the Riigikogu. The Ministry of Social Affairs' original plan was different and responds to what has been proposed as a law today. Now, it is true that I, too, was surprised that IRL representatives had a different idea at one point: the idea of adding one member of the Riigikogu to the committee. And it is also true that I could not support it, because it would have ruined the balance between the social partners, would have removed parity from place. And then a solution was found to return to the government's original plan, which is a model similar to that of the unemployment fund, which ensures the protection of the interests of the various parties and does not allow the representatives of the country to cross the partners' proposals. Whether or not the representative of the opposition could be on the Council, this could certainly be discussed, but I considered it important to clarify this historical nuance here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U129	Urmas Kruuse will continue to discuss the provisions of the Bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U130	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Personally, I don't think it's a very big surprise that this change came up. There have been several mention of the IRL, or today's Fatherland, but I think that if we look at the country as a whole, I think it is a very bad trend if the representation of the opposition in Parliament, including Parliament, falls outside the various Councils. And the control that is taking place in our companies should not be merely the control of the Riigikogu, but the opposition should certainly be represented there too. Because no matter how we look, the minister who belongs to the coalition is always represented there as a general meeting. And their political pressure is always there. Today, however, we are talking about taxpayers' money for over EUR 1 billion. Here, this model is compared with that of the unemployment fund and is explained on the grounds that the solution is similar to that of the unemployment fund. At the same time, we could recall the disputes at first reading of the draft. The discussion also raised the question of why there is no patient representative in the Council when we are talking about a large-scale representation. I think that, by nature, the MPs represent the taxpayer and the people in general. And I am convinced that this representation should be guaranteed in the Council. It is extremely sad that, in fact, all of this reminds us of this game, which says that if we don't get what we want, then no one else will. I agree with those members of the Riigikogu who say that such decisions reduce and humiliate the status of a member of the Riigikogu, make us unworthy. We constantly hear in this Chamber that members of the Riigikogu should not be in councils. At the same time, entrepreneurs with their own hidden and unhidden interests represent the country on our councils. And then, at some point, we'll read from somewhere that one or the other has used up the know-how he's got on some council for his personal business. The fact that Parliament is also represented in the Council of the Health Insurance Fund in the form of a representative of the opposition is, in my opinion, the minimum that we should ensure. I very much hope that the coalition still has the power and the intelligence to review this bill and make certain changes. Personally, I do not support any reduction in the role of the opposition in terms of Parliament and democracy. There are very bad consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U131	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U132	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of history, history really began so that the bill came to us in such a way that no member of the Riigikogu should be present on the Council. Here IRL is being reprimanded, but I must say with sadness that IRL's wish was not really the solution that it is here today. But politics is a country of compromise and often compromises are made. Our objective was very clear: there would be two members of the Riigikogu in the Council, one would be the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and the other would represent the opposition. Unfortunately, we failed to sell this wish to our partners, and today's situation is what it is. If someone says that our party wants MEPs not to be 10% in the distribution of public money, that is certainly not the case. But unfortunately today's bill on the table is what it is. Every member of the Riigikogu must vote according to your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U133	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! After all, this bill was born because the once perhaps blue-eyed idea of a health parliament failed. And failed on the blame of politicians. It has failed because the various interests that exist in the use of this billion euros and even more have somehow found their way to the Council. All the governments that started assigning the wrong people there actually had a chance not to. And only one government took advantage of this opportunity: the Mart Laar Government, which did not appoint its representative to the Council because a conflict of interest was at issue. I guess there's no reason to expect this to be any different in the future. And in that sense, the idea of the bill is for me to go from the health parliament to the board of insurance companies. But in the form he's in front of us today, he's got one mistake. I sincerely congratulate the Free Party and Monika Haukanõmme, who is probably the author of this amendment. I am very sorry that we cannot vote on this in this Chamber, because it is a very sensible compromise that the Free Party Group has proposed to you, but unfortunately it did not find support in the Commission. That's all it is. Today, we see that on health issues that are very sensitive, an apology for a straightforward expression is being beaten! The minister for things he can't be held responsible for, whatever he's done. In the future, this insurance company's board of directors will also be the subject of political attacks. This was not the case with the current Health Insurance Council, and it provided health care with such, say, political peace for many years. This political peace will probably no longer exist in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U135	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. Four amendments to the draft law have been tabled, and we will review them together. The first proposal, the decision of the lead committee, is to take it fully into account and presented by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. The second amendment is the decision made by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, by the commission: disregard. The proposal is not subject to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. The third amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. The same applies to the fourth amendment: the author is the Committee on Social Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 602. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U136	Next item: Second reading of the draft law amending the Trade Unions Act and the Law on collective labour dispute resolution initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs. Mr Helmen Küti, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U137	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! On 21 March the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu initiated the draft Act amending the Trade Unions Act and the Collective Work Dispute Resolution Act and on 22 March the Executive Board of the Riigikogu appointed the draft Committee on Social Affairs. And only as a reminder of why the Social Affairs Committee initiated this draft law: as a result of the amendment to the draft law, the legal gap will be eliminated and the possibility that a legal person can also be held liable for the violation of the obligations laid down in the Trade Union Act and the Collective Labour Dispute Resolution Act. On 5 March including 5 March, the Supreme Court concluded that according to the speciality principle expressed in § 14 (1) of the Penal Code, a legal person is liable only if required by law. This is, in fact, a technical change so that a legal person can also be held liable for a breach of obligations. The first reading of the bill took place on 8 May. The deadline for amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 22 May. The members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not submit any proposals to amend the draft. The Social Affairs Committee asked the stakeholders involved to submit their opinions. In the course of the involvement, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation presented its opinion on two occasions, on 6 April and 3 May, the Central Organisation of Trade Unions of Employees, TALO and the Estonian Employers' Confederation, who did so on 9 April. At the meeting of 26 April, the Government of the Republic decided to support the draft law amending the Trade Unions Act and the collective labour dispute resolution law in the form proposed by the Riigikogu. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for the second reading at its two meetings on 29 May and 4 June. At its meeting on 29 May, a discussion of the draft was held with stakeholders. The opinions received were also reviewed and procedural decisions were taken. In addition to the members of the committee, Thea Treier, Head of the Department of Working Life Development of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Nelli Loomets, Lawyer of the Estonian Trade Unions Confederation, Chairman of the Council of the Estonian Trade Unions Confederation, Kaia Vask, Secretary General of the Estonian Seamen's Independent Trade Union, Ago Tuuling, Chairman of the Board of the Confederation of Trade Unions, and Piia Zimmermann, Legal Adviser to the Estonian Employers' Confederation. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation proposed to extend the liability point so that the liability followed by the elected representative of the trade union in the event of obstruction of the legal activities. The draft proposal initiated by the Commission states that responsibility will follow when the elected representative of the trade union is prevented from acting when he examines the working conditions of the employee. The Commission was very unanimous that this amendment was no longer technical and would extend its responsibility. This requires negotiations between the social partners, coordination and impact analysis. In fact, such a proposal should be submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs as a legislative amendment following the normal procedure. This was also the view of the Confederation of Employers. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 6 June, to propose that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to the third reading when the second one is closed, by 13 June and then to the final vote. All these decisions were consensual. On 4 June we had a debate in which the procedural documents for second reading were approved and it was decided to submit them to the Riigikogu plenary. All members of the Commission were in favour of this consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U138	The question to the waitress will be asked by Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U139	Thank you. Helmen, why is one and the same thing punished once on the basis of fines and once in specific euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U140	Thank you for your question. Because it is a legal person on one occasion and, on the other, as you can see from this bill, a natural person. Get the fine unit, I'll say it, is 4 euros according to § 47 of the Penal Code. In the case of a legal person, the fine shall be up to EUR 3200. This will be decided according to the specific circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U141	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, there are no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. As you have heard, there were no amendments to the draft 604. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U142	Seventh item: Second reading of draft law amending the Structural Support Act and other laws (creating a single implementation service) for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Finance Committee to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The deadline for amendments to this draft was 25 May after the first reading. By this time no amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. At the same time, we discussed the second reading twice: on 28 May and 4 June. We decided, however, that we would make two amendments, which were annexed to the draft law. They're both specific. One amendment concerns the deletion of the three words "regional donor" from the title of § 43. This is set out in § 42, as the person who actually provides regional aid will change. In the second case, if a decision on a financial correction is taken, it must be stated that the recipient of State aid has an obligation to pay interest. Linguistic proofreading has also been carried out. The amendments were examined by the Commission and supported by consensus. Decisions were also taken by consensus to submit this draft to the Chamber today, 6 June, and to propose that the second reading be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U144	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U145	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, There are many nuances about this bill that concern me. On the one hand, it is good that we are trying to make the system better, more flexible and more transparent than it is now. But on the other hand, it worries that there is still no clear plan. I would like to talk more about the abolition of the Gambling Tax Council. This issue has been discussed several times in recent years. There have been a number of nuances about how the problem could be alleviated and improved, but I still do not see a concrete solution at the moment in which it is being attempted. In my opinion, the Gambling Tax Council has worked very well, on clear principles. The money from gambling tax is distributed not in large pieces from the state budget, but through the Council to the sport, culture, education and social sectors. The great plus has been that the Council has been composed of representatives of all parliamentary parties, plus the Chancellors of Ministries. In addition, previous background work has been done by specialists from ministries. In this respect, I have very little to complain about, and I cannot agree with those who say that the activities of the Gambling Tax Board are somehow opaque or not correct and not good. Over the years, our activities in the Gambling Tax Board have been very flexible and fast. Smaller applicants, in particular, who have wanted support, have received it quite quickly. For example, if they have not received funds from the cultural capital distributed once a quarter, they have always had the opportunity to come to the Gambling Tax Board and if their project has met the requirements, they have benefited from it. In the future, it seems to me that this opportunity will be lost to them. One of the arguments I have read in the explanatory notes and other texts is that the Gambling Tax Board has been somewhat costly. As far as I know, this is one of the few councils that operates free of charge. The members of the council are not getting paid, and I do not know where this argument comes from. I dare say, having worked in various councils for years, that the Gambling Tax Council has been one of the most effective of those councils where I have had the honour of working. One of the problems that I think may arise as a result of the Council's abolition is that, if so far, the decision-making process has been in the Council, where representatives of all parliamentary parties are represented and, in addition, the Chancellors of the Ministries, then in the future, these matters will be decided either in the ministries or who knows what organisations. So political level or political control disappears and decision-making goes to official level. I don't know if that's the best solution for deciding on a narrower circle, in my opinion, shouldn't go. In conclusion, I agree that if we want to make something more effective, better and more transparent, this must of course be done, but there must be a clear plan for this. There's no plan right now. At the moment, the numbers are being raised, the next draft that we have on the agenda is going to write, to the nearest decimal point, some numbers into the budgets of the ministries, but how the money will move in the future, I do not know. And the message to small applicants, in particular, I do not mean large organisations in other areas whose funding is more or less stable, rather small applicants are not given, and that is, in my view, a major problem. I very much hope that there will also be a concrete implementation plan for these documents in the near future on how these funds will be channelled forward. I hope that the distribution of money will not become less transparent than it has been so far, that the decision-making level will be as broad as possible and, of course, that smaller applicants will still receive support and assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U146	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U147	Thank you, Mr President. I will take this opportunity to say a few more words. I came here for the remote control to clarify for the sake of the verbatim: specifically, this bill does not concern the Gambling Tax Council in any way. This can be discussed during the debate on item 20 of the agenda. By the way, I share the concerns that Mr Luik was talking about here, but perhaps we will talk about this later. In the case of this draft, I would like to mention one new thing that was also discussed at first reading: grants will be received after the adoption of this law within the framework of the relevant measures if they are also requested by a natural person. I think it is very positive. So I don't see any major problems with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U148	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled, both tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The decision of the commission is to take full account of both the first and the second amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 628. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U149	Eighth item: Second reading of Bill 614 of the Act amending the Act on the Use of Money from Privatisation initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech chair to Märt Sults, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U150	Colleagues! I will enlighten the procedure in the lead committee between first and second readings. The topic is the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Use of Money from Privatisation. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 April and the first reading took place on 9 May. The deadline for submitting amendments was 23 May at 17 o'clock and two proposals were received from the member of the Riigikogu Krista Arult, one from the member of the Riigikogu Jüri Adams and one from the Social Democratic Party faction. The Estonian Heritage Board gave its opinion on the draft, the Estonian Owners' Confederation, the Estonian Heritage Society and the Association of monumental sites submitted a joint opinion. A further proposal was submitted to the Commission by the Ministry of Finance. The Economic Commission itself requested the legal assessment of the draft from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. All proposals and opinions on the draft can be consulted on the draft map. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for the second reading at its meeting of 28 May and 4 June, which was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission decided to make two amendments to the draft, one of which was submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the National Heritage Board. The text of the draft act passed between the two readings and had technical and linguistic changes, which in no case alter the content of the draft act. Now for the amendments. In total there are six amendments, two of which are Krista Aru, a member of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams and one from the Social Democratic Party faction. Two are proposals from the lead committee. Amendments 1, 5 and 6 relate to the formulation of a point enabling churches to benefit from the property reform reserve fund and to the formulation of a point allowing support for building monuments. The commission made procedural decisions and proposals. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, 6 June, and to propose that the second reading be terminated. The Commission also decided that, should the second reading be completed, the final vote on the draft could be held on 13 June. All decisions and amendments were approved by consensus, with the exception of the proposal to fund the reproduction or preservation of heritage sites with property reform funds. The rapporteur abstained on this point. Amendment 2 was accepted. The Commission's proposal is to amend section 7 (11) (8) of the Act on the use of funds from privatisation contained in point 2 of the draft and to formulate it as follows: to grant support to churches. Amendment 5 was also accepted. The Commission's proposal is to complement point 2 (9) of the draft, which would allow the funding from privatisation to be used to provide support for the restoration and conservation of building monuments returned during the ownership reform. My personal opinion was that if a property reform had returned to a building monument, but the owner couldn't manage to maintain it, it would have to be taken away from him, or he would have to sell it to someone who could do it, not the state would have to give him the money so that he could fix the thing he bought for himself. That was also why I abstained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U151	Please, Toomas Kivimägi can ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am actually asking, in the interests of the accuracy of the verbatim, that you reiterate whether or not the amendment could have given support to the churches with consensual approval. As far as I am aware, and I believe that this is also in the protocol, I voted against this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U153	I'll take a look at it. Amendment 2 was accepted and worded as follows:'§ 7 (11) of the ELRKS proposed by the draft is 8 aimed at the ownership reform... ' Here's a long explanation for what you can read in the explanatory memorandum. But I am indebted to the answer because the result of the vote is not written here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U154	No further questions. The first question was not answered in part. I'm opening negotiations. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U155	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject of my speech is the restoration of the church building in Tartu. There is also an amendment to this that we want to put to the vote. We sent an e-mail to the Free Party Group and to all of you e-mail addresses containing a short text containing some of the most important facts about the problem and history of the Church of Tartu and two photos. Since we cannot demonstrate the images in this hall, but the images are very eloquent about this, please look at this email. I have a feeling that many of you have passed this building without knowing that there has ever been a church there. One of the photos shows the walls of the church building and the tower after the church was burned in 1941, and the other is a picture of how the building looks now. Last Wednesday, in Question Time, I asked Minister of Culture Indrek Saar about the state's position on supporting the restoration of Mary's church and the minister was obviously upset about it. If I understood correctly his words, body language and tone of voice, the answer was that so many churches have already been restored in Tartu, so much money has gone there, and now another church is being restored with a desire for money. Yesterday, an interview was published in the paper edition of Tartu Postimees by temporary chancellor Tarvi Sits of the Ministry of Culture on the same issue. The content of the interview can be summarised in such a way that you do not ask for money, so the state will not give it anyway. I have to admit, this was a moment of understanding for me when I realized that young and old people see the world differently, and if they don't talk to each other a lot, they're gonna get the wrong ideas. I have a feeling that here we are witnesses of one of these misunderstandings. I am a Tartian whose ancestors have been members of this congregation for at least 150 years. I have known since childhood that there is a church that has been damaged, that there is a congregation, etc. And I've misjudged that if I did, then everyone would know. But in the case of Mr. Island and Mr. Sits, it turns out they just don't know the problem. That's how it's time to talk things out between you and me. The historic St. John's Church has indeed been restored in Tartu. Paul's church, which was also burned in war, has also been proudly restored. But why was the question of restoring Mary's church not raised in time? Why is it being said now, so late? The church building was requested back, but the property reform committees gave a negative answer: not to be returned. The church tower had been demolished and in this form it had been converted into a sports building of the Estonian Agricultural Academy. Perhaps many of you have either played ball or played athletics there. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U156	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U157	After all, it was in Tartu that two of the institutions of higher education there had a great deal to get back from the university in the course of the property reform, but the Estonian Agricultural Academy had been created during the Soviet period and had in its possession various buildings and other assets in Tartu and elsewhere, and it should have been obliged to give them back. One dispute that continues so far is the desire of Jaan Tõnisson's heirs to return to the land of the former Erika manor, but there is no time to deal with it. Finally, the church building of Mary was restored in 2009. In the meantime, the state had built a new sports building for this new location behind Tähtvere Manor, so the old one became unnecessary to the country university. I think that Minister Saarel must understand that the Estonian state must contribute to the restoration of this church building. There's no way out of this. There are several reasons. One is that this is the place where the Estonian Song Festivals started, both in 1869 and in 1879. More generally, there are other things in Tartu that need to be restored. The one that's being restored is the schoolhouse of Peter's Church. The question of restoring the main building of the old Raadi manor in the ruins of the ruins will certainly arise. You have noticed this next to the Estonian National Museum. And then, of course, the question of the historic Kivisilla remains: is it possible and necessary to restore it. I thank those members of the Reform Party who voted in favour of this issue in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I invite you in the vote to demonstrate your understanding that the issue of the restoration of Mary's church is a real and not a formal legal issue. It concerns members of the congregation, it is not like Niguliste, where there is no congregation, or the Orthodox Church, whose nominal assets are also located in Petseri County. These are, in fact, such financial jock games. I am not optimistic that this amendment will receive overwhelming support here, but please show the attitude that this issue needs to be addressed. In this context, we also propose those for whom it is important to set up a support group for the restoration of the church of Mary in the Riigikogu. The meeting that will be set up by this group could take place tomorrow after the Riigikogu's work has ended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U158	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U159	Honourable President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Law on the Foundations of Ownership Reform was passed on 13 June 1991, and in exactly one week it will be 27 years. I want to ask you if it isn't time to get the ownership reform over with. The need for a swift end to ownership reform is also recognised by the initiator of the draft law in his explanatory memorandum, but contrary to what has been said, the draft in fact creates completely new bases for allocating money, with the new foundations being more than questionable as to ownership reform. What is more: this Monday, the amendment approved by the Committee on Economic Affairs, not by consensus, but by the majority, clearly states that there must be no connection to the ownership reform and no violation of ownership. As a result, I have the question whether the proposed changes are at all in line with the general principles of the law on the use of funds from privatisation. § 7 of the Act states that the funds received will be used to cover the costs of organising the return, compensation and privatisation of assets and other land and property reform. Building a new church is certainly not. In fact, the approval of these amendments in this Chamber today means that the reserve fund for the property reform of the Government of the Republic will become the most classic reserve fund of the Government of the Republic. And in doing so, there will certainly be some wishes relating to ownership reform that I think the next speakers will also talk about. The purpose of amending the law is, in fact, to allocate money to the Church of Niguliste and the monastery of Petseri. We do not consider it fundamentally right to highlight individual cases in such laws laying down general rules. However, if the government appoints the Church of Niguliste and the Monastery of Petseri, it is justified to ask Mr Jüri Adams why there is no Tartu Church on the list. Moreover, the legislative amendment to be voted on allows all churches to apply for support and, at the same time, there are no grounds, not any principles on the basis of which the money is allocated. For the Reform Party, the unacceptable position reflected in the draft is that the occupation damage must be compensated by the country that was occupied. After the first reading of the bill, the term 'in the course of war and occupation' has been deleted from the draft, but it does not change the substance. The explanatory memorandum speaks in several places about repairing the damage to the occupation and compensating for the loss of property resulting from the occupation. It is precisely these requests made by the churches that will be dealt with in this draft. The mere omission of a few words does not change the nature of the matter if everything else remains the same. On the basis of the above, the Reform Party does not support this draft and proposes that the second reading be discontinued. The objective is not always an instrument, and in this case it is certainly not. And that's not because the goal isn't noble. The Reform Party also fully supports the payment of money to the Orthodox Church for Petseri monastery, as well as the provision of money to the Church of Tartu and many other churches, but from the right budget line, not such a misguided route. Therefore, I repeat once again, the Reform Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading of this draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U160	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U161	Mr. President! Colleagues! I was cut to heart by the remark made by the President-in-Office that I gave a incomplete answer. To complete my reply, I will read the text of Protocol 209 of the session of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, drawn up on Monday, 4 June. The Commission also discussed the point which Toomas Kivimägi referred to. It was decided that the final wording of this point would be: amend Paragraph 7 (11) (8) of the Act on the use of funds from privatisation contained in point 2 of the draft and read as follows: 'to grant aid to churches. '. A debate took place, a vote took place. By Sven Sester, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Tarmo Kruusimäe voted against by Toomas Kivimägi. Thank you very much for being brought to the attention of this, but the record sheet was not in the general package of documents. So thank you, and the truth is set.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U162	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U163	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U164	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U165	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd say there's kind of a historic moment in this hall right now. And I think this bill goes down in the history of parliamentary culture as a disgrace. It seems to me that this law will be written in books. I can even say that I am sad that such a bill reached the Chamber of the Riigikogu during the reign of the Central Party of my home party and during the holding of the Prime Minister's position. This law simply embarrasss the Estonian people. I agree with the previous speakers that money should be given to the Church of Mary and other churches, perhaps not to compensate for the monastery of Petseri. As a member of the church church and a regular walker in the temple, I am in favour of all these proposals. But, dear people, we can't take away money from the children of Mary's Village, the sick children who are stuck between the cogs of life, and give this money to fix the roof of the church. It can't be done! In this case, we are talking only about the source of funding for the implementation of these proposals. It's a property reform reserve fund. It's already been made up in 1991! Indeed, 27 years ago, as Mr Kivimägi said, this law was passed and then this fund was created. It was designed to help the forced tenants in the middle of life, whose homes Estonia's own government took away from them on the basis of its own laws. They wanted to help these people in the future and try to find a way for them to get a new home, either to help buy it or to build a new house. These forced tenants, we know very well, are around 100,000, according to the government, around 75,000, in any case a very large number. And those people who also stood in the Baltic Way and sang at the Song Festival Square to free Estonia are now disappointed in the Republic of Estonia, because this new power took away their home from them. There are tens of thousands of these families. They are not very loud, especially now, because the forced tenants realized that the party that has allowed for 27 years has now come to power to alleviate the suffering of the forced tenants. The Centre Party came to power, and they expect this party to help them. But now I'm standing on the remote and I can see it's not being done. The previous speaker, Mr Kivimäe, is right: we are currently setting up a second reserve fund for the government, taking away the money of the poorer people. Because the average forced tenant is an ordinary Estonian citizen. A large part of them still pays a bank loan because our own government took their home away from them. If we were to get into this and think about it, we would understand that we live in an unfair society. I support the EKRE party slogan they said on the council. Estonia is not a rule of law if we make such laws. Estonia cannot be a rule of law if its own citizens are deprived of their homes and are not compensated in any way. I would remind you that the first version of the Property Reform Act included the point that the state or municipality would replace the lost home with a new dwelling in the same residential area. There have now been about 40 amendments to this law in the course of various governments, and all these noble promises, of course, have been forgotten. I'm not going to read the suggestions for improvement that are here. They must not be allowed to pass; they are a disgrace to the Estonian people and to the Estonian parliament. However, I read the second paragraph of the explanatory memorandum with great amazement, which is written by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The opinion on the draft was therefore consulted by the National Heritage Board, the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Estonian Heritage Society and the Association of monumental sites. Dear people, I ask, why did they need to be consulted? They want the money. But the Union of Estonian Tenants, from whom the money is taken away, will not be consulted! What kind of legislation is this going on in this hall? You can't do this! I think that in a few, thirty years' time, fifty years, but maybe even a hundred years' time, the books will read which Riigikogu we had, how he was so stupid, how he did not stand up for his Estonian people. You see, in the course of the property reform, we paid off nationalised property during the Soviet regime. It's been 70 to 80 years, but it's not over. I am absolutely certain that the children and grandchildren of the forced tenants will go to the cemetery and remember: look, here is my grandmother, who was taken from her home on Forest Street. Sister Marika and I both went out of 79 houses in the woods with the bags, 78-year-old mom, and we cried. Father had died a few years before that, after a paper was brought to him from the household, that you, man, go out of your home with your family, from your home, where you came to live in 1946, the year I was born, in accordance with the laws that were in force at that time. But now we have a new Estonia, a free Estonia, a democratic Estonia, now please go out, get your kids and bags! He suffered a stroke and died very soon. There are very, very many such cases. I would say this: dear fellows, above all from the Centre Party, do not support this bill! We're going to history when we're black. We can't do that! The son of Savisaar doesn't give a shit about what I'm talking about right now. He doesn't know what it's like to have to suffer, sometimes he'll find out in his life. But I think from old age, if we ever leave life, these laws will come to our mind. 100,000 people have been evicted from their homes in Estonia. Think about it! Stalin didn't have that much time to deport. The tenants' union has such a saying: Stalin deported in two hours, the Republic of Estonia deported in two or three months or a few years, the result was the same. And we call this eviction deportation or deportation of Estonians in the Republic of Estonia's own day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U166	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U167	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! From what the previous speaker said, people who view us with the help of an internship should not get the wrong impression that home is always home. The home can also be viewed in a different way, not as it has just been defined today, that the nationalised home to which the family moved in 1946 is actually home from this moment of move-in without a purchase-sale transaction or something like that. I think that the Republic of Estonia restored justice when it thought of the people who had taken their home in the process of nationalisation. Many families were deported to Siberia. Finally, some justice was restored. In doing so, however, there was a great deal of strangeness in the way this justice was done. For me, the strange example is how one true pearl, Terje Aru, in which the genes of different nations have been run together as one woman, almost a quarter of the old town was privatized on legal grounds. That was an interesting case. There was an interesting little compromise proposal on this draft, which, to say the least, did not get anywhere. This was done by the Central Union of Estonian Owners and the Union of Estonian Tenants. There was no discussion on this subject, but the idea would have been for both representative organisations to receive 5% of this money, because both the Central Union of Estonian Owners and the Union of Estonian Tenants should be sustainable bodies for at least another ten years. These two organs are actually built on very strange bases, they've been dumped on cardboard, and then they've been spent somewhere. When we look at neighbouring countries, we see that homeowners' associations are extremely wealthy associations, because homeowners pay money there. The financial position of the Tenants' Union is not so good, but from this new moment, which is now emerging, both of them are obviously going to die, or they are going to find some other funding. When I asked a ministerial representative at first reading for information on the sustainability of both organisations and whether the Ministry of Finance had already prepared a new representative organisation to defend the interests of the two existing associations, Hänni replied that everyone could make proposals. Which means he obviously didn't understand the question or he thought he was outsmarting us. I asked exactly the same question at the next reading, and the answer was even more vague. Therefore, I do not know whether it may not be advisable for both tenants and homeowners to be strongly represented and insured in Estonia. At present, I see that homeowners have made an agreement with heritage conservation, under which a building monument, which is not an object of heritage conservation that has come out of hand at the moment, would receive money for restoration and conservation. How does this relate to the money from privatisation? There's a new dimension here! Today's co-rapporteur also wondered how this money could go to heritage conservation objects. Today, the monument truly contains a very vague term. I know that every once in a while, on Saturdays, they invite us to get Tallinn cleaned up. Let's also clean up the monuments owned by someone who doesn't want to bet on it, now let the people do it! But if the people don't, we'll make the money, we can still do it. The law is exactly what it is. If you have this consensual will, you can take 10 minutes or 15 minutes to pause the head together on how to proceed! At this point in time, this solution is not sustainable, but I will vote as agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U168	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, However, I suggest that the coalition ambassadors vote in the way that is right and fair, not the way that has been agreed, because it is actually a crook that is going on here. It's just an attempt to give interest groups money bypassing the state budget, giving the government a new reserve to share the jam. Let's give them the money, but let's not give them your money! It's in the pantry, it's hanging, let's get it! The first attempted theft was stopped by the Chancellor of Justice. Now the same thing is being tried in a new way, in the form of an amendment to the law, such legitimate theft. It is not I who has formulated this idea. Basically, I have heard it from the very top of our state law, who said that the government does not like laws, and when something needs to be done, there is a majority in the law. I have asked repeatedly whether the majority of Parliament, the political majority, can do anything if money is needed. In this case, good manners and practices have been forgotten, and I hope that those who have been jogging about the draft government here will indeed vote against this draft, i.e. to interrupt the second reading today. It was about the forced tenants. I am, of course, sorry to vote the same way with these people, even though I am the one who has lost his home like this. We did not receive this home in 1946, but in about 1936. Four generations of it came to be considered their home, but then it turned out that someone had one alleged stepchild and that allegedly he, the owner, had not given it to the Soviet authorities voluntarily, even though the data is that he gave it voluntarily. But that's it. During the Soviet regime, freedom was scarce. In principle, however, nothing must be said in the context of this draft. Those who were tenants had nothing to return; the rental contract was not returned in the course of the ownership reform. So let's not talk this shit! Although this is my home, I must admit the big picture. The restoration was the will of the Estonian people, probably the only option, and those from whom the home or real estate was taken had to get it back. It was really home to us, and he had a stepfather's real estate that his stepfather rented. So the emotional side is one, the legal side is the other. But the fact that money is just being distributed here is, of course, embarrassing, shameful, I agree with those words. If you want to support churches, please do it from 'your money', from the state budget! Demonstrate through normal procedures and preferences, which is your policy! Not so that we have an election coming up, and the policy is to give money, but politics is to which churches are given. Of course, in 2016, you did the same: you came and started restoring the cultural palaces called Lenin as a temple, but at least this plan ran through the state budget. Right now, it's just that the government is holding one of the levers to share the money. Take the money that is meant for this palace and give it to the church of Tartu. For me, this is a place close to my soul: I learned how to play basketball there. But I don't agree that this money is taken in the same way from that pantry. It's unnatural. If there is a need to restore the church, it is not given from the reserve of any government, but it is honestly placed in the list of priorities, and the government and the Riigikogu must decide this honestly. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U170	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U171	The ownership reform reserve has still been set up for clear purposes. Those things that are grafted onto it have nothing to do with ownership reform, and that is another disgrace. We certainly don't approve of such a scheme. So I repeat: we are seeking to cancel the second reading of this bill and not, in fact, to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U172	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U173	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that this draft has taken a major step forward between the first reading and the second reading. There has been an extremely controversial and regrettable remark, as if Estonia were going to compensate for the damage to the occupation, which would have meant that we would have taken the occupation ourselves into the hands of Estonia in occupying the Republic of Estonia. How can such absurd things ever go into a bill?! This is extremely strange and extremely regrettable. However, it is positive that this provision has now gone. Today, like last time, there has been talk of some kind of compensation for the Petseri monastery. This is not explicitly stated in the draft law, but it is inextricably accompanied by an explanatory statement, although it does not have the legal power of the law itself. This explanatory statement has not been amended, and we are reading the very same explanatory statement today, which was presented to us the first time, where there is talk of occupation damage and where there is also talk of the monastery of Petseri. Petseri Monastery is located in Petseri County. Like the areas beyond Narva, Petseri County is occupied and annexed by Russia. Petser's monastery is in the hands and administration of the Orthodox Church, which is subordinate to the Patriarch of Moscow and all Russia. Now to start paying some compensation for it is absurdity in the cube, because it also confirms the same claim as if we were occupying ourselves. Of course, no one would mind giving the churches money to both the Lutheran Church and the Orthodox Church, but only to the Estonian Orthodox Church, not to Moscow. Now, if we look at where this money is taken from the property reform reserve fund, it is deeply wondering why it is from there. It is not a fund for this purpose. The government would be able to allocate money through the program of the temples, the state budget. Somehow there's a fund they want to grab. If we look at the other part of the explanatory memorandum about empty apartments in Kohtla-Järve and so on, this problem also needs to be resolved, but it is not really the case either. Kohtla-Järvet is the town that is now going to normalise and liquidate these ghost castles with these funds, after all, this city did not exist until the Soviet era. So how can we now use these sums for this? So, unfortunately, there are a lot of tangles left unsolved in this draft, and therefore the Conservative People's Party supports the end of this second reading. But I hope that this issue will still come up, because it is an important and necessary subject, but... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U174	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U175	... but the solutions that are being proposed to us are, unfortunately, extremely low and do not correspond to the legal level in which we can pass the bill in this Chamber. I am impressed by the fact that, in 1918, when the country of Estonian churches was nationalized, the Republic of Estonia later decided to compensate for these lands. To this end, the churches were issued bonds, separate coupons, on the basis of which part of this so-called debt was written off each year. World War II was caught, this compensation process was in progress, but right now we know exactly how much we owed the churches back in the day. Ten years ago, I myself participated in a study that tried to find these documents and to recover the funds. We know exactly how much we can and should pay for these lands and assets to the churches. Why don't we do it on this base? That's a big question for me. It is completely incomprehensible that one very simple way is not being used and instead we are being told about the occupation and I do not know what else. So our appeal is: We still do things wisely and wisely, not sluggishly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U176	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U177	Ladies and gentlemen, I might not have come to this remote control, but, looking at this amendment that has come to our table, I inevitably wondered whether we should be making this kind of legislation in this Chamber. The Law on the Foundations of Ownership Reform is one of the oldest Estonian laws currently in force: adopted on 13 June 1991 and entered into force on 20 June 1991. This law had its clear objectives: either to give people back property or, if it cannot be returned, for example, to compensate for it. Two objectives: either return the asset or compensate for the asset. And then the state decided that a reserve fund had to be set up to ensure ownership reform. When this fund was set up, it had the same clear objective: it must be linked to ownership reform, to occupation damage. The draft that we are going to vote on today is going to go a long way from this objective. Basically, the grand hall of the Riigikogu wants to say that it doesn't matter what the purpose is, but the Government of the Republic found a piggy bank with money. Fourteen million is in the property reform reserve fund, we're gonna knock it out. It's not a benevolent behavior. And if we look at how previous governments have behaved, we can see that even when the Centre Party was in the government in 2005-2007, the property reform reserve fund was not going around like this. There are some principles in maintaining the Estonian state. We have created certain funds or certain reserves for ourselves to use them in a purposeful way. The ownership reform reserve has its purpose, and if we now begin to change this principle so that we simply decide to grant support there, we will turn off the principles that we ourselves have established in this Chamber in our own time. The second question: what occupation damage, then, do we seem to be making amends? Who was occupied by whom, and how should anyone be compensated? It is not very clear, at least, about the change that we are now perhaps making here. And look, this is the main complaint I have to this law amendment and even this law. A wise government comes together and finds it necessary to give money to the churches. Is anyone in this hall opposed to giving money to the churches? I don't think so. If the state has the capacity and the opportunity to help the churches, of course, it must help the churches, but this cannot happen in such a way that the current law goes against the rule that the government comes together and says that we are giving out of the stock of property reform, then the Chancellor of Justice comes and says that listen, it is illegal and even illegal. And then they find that if there's a law ahead of this plan, you can change the law. This is certainly possible and the law can be amended in such a way that the same principles remain in force. But right now, we're changing the law so it doesn't match that goal. Consequently, ladies and gentlemen, the Reform Party's proposal for a second reading of the draft today is to interrupt the only possible solution. There is nothing else we can do legally at second reading. I very much hope that we will interrupt the second reading of this draft. If the government coalition has a desire to give money to the churches, then we must find a legal way to do so, not to twist the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U178	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. I haven't stayed like Heimar Lenk and some of my colleagues in this matter between life's gears, but I have to be here right now. Last time, at first reading, when there was a proposal to reject it, I voted in favour of the rejection, and I do not see any possibility of not doing so either. A little background. Remember, Rein Taagepera mentioned quite recently when we were discussing a matter of national importance that we are here only rubber stamps and that we are becoming even more. I don't agree with that. But what really is it? Remember, the Minister of Justice Reinsalu has told us at least once from this remote control that the Constitution must be read, it should not be taken literally. And next week, I'm gonna tell you here that not all water bodies are bodies of water. For example, a reservoir is not a reservoir according to the new bill, but a facility. It's like some kind of voluntarism, that if there's a property reform reserve fund, it's actually a lot of time for government reserve fund number 2 or number 3. That's what we're used to. If it was said here before that this has only come about now, then I would remind you that the creation of a new reserve fund for this government took place much earlier. Remember how Juhan Parts was? The Prime Minister was not Jüri Ratas then, but for Estonian Air these tens of millions were found in the same safe deposit box, and there was no problem with the same pig. And if you follow it, God save it for the church or anyone, just ask! However, if we now say yes to giving money for the monastery of Niguliste and Petseri, but say no to the church of Tartu, it doesn't add up. In addition, we have put or have been placed, I have not mixed up in this bill, you can say, like porridge and cabbages, in the end, the unfortunate apartments of Kohtla-Järve. But the people caught in the gear of the property reform are left with a long nose. Yeah, they say someday we'll find the money and it doesn't matter where we get it. Indeed, I too believe that the churches should be given money, but this whole pot, at least in this form, doesn't fit in any way. Now, if I read this bill, there are really no more occupation damage in it, but I quote from the explanatory statement: 'Because of international law, the occupying country must compensate for the damage caused by the occupation, not the country that suffered the occupation. ' But then: 'By amending the law, the Estonian state will lay the foundations for providing support in order to show solidarity and understanding of the churches... ' Here's the topic and the word of the occupation. And as I understand it, no one else is behind it but Reinsalu, the Minister of Justice, who told me some time ago that he had to ask Russia for compensation for the occupation damage. Now, that's the wording. To conclude, nothing can fix the cripple. Even if we hire the world's best makeup machines, I don't mean Silver Meikari, who do great makeup, the cripple will be crippled! In this form, I cannot support this draft in any way, although, again, I stress, the churches should be given money, but not from the property reform reserve fund in any case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U180	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U181	Ladies and gentlemen, There have been a lot of painful and right words here today, and I don't have much to add. But I want to draw attention to one thing: it is justice. In this Chamber, we could try to make Estonia as fair as possible. If we ever did a property reform, it was clear that no matter how this ownership reform was done, someone would get hit. Someone is suffering because we have our own independent free rule of law. And the Estonian state has decided that for those who suffered, this suffering should somehow be compensated for the fact that an independent Estonian state is a rule of law that ensures that no one gets the wrong hit. And the purpose of using the money from privatisation was precisely that: Estonia cares about all its citizens. And sometimes when it happens that some kind of reform will inevitably result in someone getting hit, someone being worse, one fair country will compensate for the hit. Because it's a sacrifice. The forced tenants made a sacrifice for us to have this country so that we could even pass any laws in this Chamber. And that is why the use of this money for something other than making up for the injustices that these people have suffered is, in my opinion, vile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U182	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. Proposals have been made to amend the draft, and we will review them. The first amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the decision of the commission: disregard. The second amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, a decision to take full account. The third amendment is from the member of the Riigikogu, Krista Arult, the decision of the commission: disregard. Fourth amendment from Jüri Adams, member of the Riigikogu, decision of the commission: disregard. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U183	Mr President, I would like to ask you to vote on this very good proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U184	That's what we'll do in a few minutes. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the fourth amendment tabled by Mr Adams. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 21 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Fifth amendment, decision by the Committee on Economic Affairs, commission of directors: take full account. The sixth amendment is from the member of the Riigikogu Krista Arult, decision of the commission: consider the substance. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to stop the second reading of Bill 614, but the faction of the Estonian Reform Party of the Riigikogu proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Act amending the Act on the Use of Money from Privatization. This is possible after the vote. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of Bill 614 of the Act amending the Act on the Use of Money from Privatization. Please take a stand and vote. 45 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 40 against. [[Let's hear it.]] The second reading of the bill has been interrupted. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 20 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U185	Ninth item: Second reading of draft law amending the Road Transport Act initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs 621. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U186	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Road Transport Act was initiated by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu on 30 April. The first reading of the draft was held in the Riigikogu on 8 May and the first reading was completed. The amendment of the Road Transport Act is due to the need to clarify some provisions under European Union law and to add additional misdemeanours to the list of requirements of good repute of the carrier and the driver. During the procedure of the draft proposal, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications addressed the proposals to the Economic Commission. At its meeting on 31 May, the Government of the Republic decided to support the proposed amendments to the Road Transport Act together with the improvements proposed by MKM. Proposals and opinions submitted to the Commission can be consulted on the Riigikogu website. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Road Transport Act at its meeting on 28 May and 4 June. During the meetings, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions were taken. The meetings were attended by Hindrek Allvee, Head of Transport and Traffic Services of the Roads and Railways Department of MKM, and by Eda Rembel, Senior Specialist. The bill was sent to the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for technical and linguistic purposes, and the language editor's comments are included in the text of the draft. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline of 22 May at 17.15. Amendments were submitted to the lead committee for consideration by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Decisions on amendments were taken by the Commission by vote and are included in the list of amendments. The Commission supported all the proposed amendments by consensus. For the sake of readability, the explanations of the amendments have been left on the list of each amendment. The commission adopted the decision to send the draft law amending the Road Transport Act, initiated by the Economic Commission, to the Riigikogu for a second reading today, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 13 June and to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U187	Urve Tiidus, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns Amendment 6, because it has an interesting connection with the amendment of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the related amendment of other laws, which we dealt with in this Chamber a few weeks ago. The large hall then decided unanimously to exclude from the Road Transport Act provisions allowing the transporter to be subject to administrative measures in the event of the payment of the road user fee, i.e. for such an infringement. The logical justification was that the fine does not have a legal meaning, i.e. it is non-punitive. The Committee on Economic Affairs has now accepted the amendment to the Road Transport Act that if you do not pay the road user fee, you will be fined, followed by other sanctions from the State, such as suspension of the licence. My question is why the Committee on Economic Affairs made such a change of heart when the Committee on Legal Affairs had decided otherwise and the Chamber had practically unanimously supported it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U189	Thank you. The Committee on Economic Affairs really discussed this proposal twice. We found that since similar measures are being applied to our carriers abroad, why should they not apply in Estonia as well? The Commission decided to support this change in a consensual manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U190	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U191	Thank you for that answer. I'm gonna ask you for an addition, though. In essence, there is a double penalty, isn't there? You have justified this by the way others do and we do not, and the Committee on Legal Affairs has also taken this opportunity. Can you assess whether such national legislation improves, for example, the behaviour of car drivers or the imposition of additional sanctions, however, will increase the power and the possibility of going to court?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U192	Thank you. This is an additional option, not an obligation. And I think some of the carriers must be disciplined.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U193	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Would you like to open negotiations? That's not what you want. Seven amendments have been tabled to bill 621. As you have heard, everything is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, but let us examine them one by one. First amendment, decision of the commission: take full account. This is also the case for the second amendment, as well as for the third, fourth, fifth and sixth amendments. The seventh amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 621. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U194	Next item: Second reading of the radiation law initiated by the Government of the Republic, the general part of the environmental law and the draft law amending the law on health and safety at work 623. Meelis Mälberg, Member of the Environment Committee of the Speaker's Board, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 30 April 2018. We completed our first reading in this Chamber on 16 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 23 May. No amendments to the draft law were received. During the period between first and second reading, the Committee on the Environment addressed this draft at two meetings: 28 May and 4 June. On 28 May, Mr Getlyn Denks, Head of Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Mr Maris Arro, Chief Specialist of the same department, were invited to the meeting. For the second time, the Committee on the Environment discussed the draft at its meeting on 4 June, which was attended by Reelika Runnel, adviser to the Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Marko Lelov, lawyer at the Legal Department. As I said, no amendments were tabled, but the Commission itself, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, made six amendments to the draft. These are purely linguistic and technical clarifications, which in no way alter the substance of the draft. At its meeting, the Commission also took the following procedural decisions: to propose the second reading of draft 623 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 6 June inclusive, to propose the second reading of draft 623 and, if the second reading is closed, to put the third reading of the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 13 June including the final vote on the draft. All decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U196	Krista Aru has a question for the waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have noted in this covering letter that stakeholders have supported the draft. Have stakeholders been able to examine and fully embrace the Commission's own proposals between first and second readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U198	Thank you. As I said, the amendments that we tabled in the committee do not change in any way the substance of the draft, and these interest groups were not invited to the meetings of the committee. As an example, all of these have been included in one amendment, where the number of the directive is simply for the sake of accuracy, which does not change in any way the substance of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U199	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. Six amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the decision of the lead committee: take full account. The same applies to the second amendment, as well as to the third, fourth, fifth and sixth amendments, all of which have been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the decision of the commission is to take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 623. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U200	Next item: Second reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Valeri Korbi, member of the Environment Committee, would you like to speak as a waitress?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U201	Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act amending the Atmospheric Air Protection Act 624 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 30 April including. The first reading was completed in this Chamber on 16 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 23 May 2018. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees on the draft. During the period between first and second readings, the Commission dealt with the draft once, at its meeting on 28 May. Stakeholders' opinions on the draft, which were supportive, were identified by means of communication. On 28 May, after some discussion, which had taken place after the first reading, when we looked at it in this Chamber, the Commission decided to propose a second reading of draft 624 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 6 June 2018 (consensually), to propose a second reading of draft 624 (consensually) and, if the second reading is completed, to take the third reading of draft 624 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 13 June (same consensus) and to propose a final vote on the draft (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U202	There is also a consensus on whether to ask the rapporteur questions. There aren't any. Thank you. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. That's not what you want. No amendments have been tabled for draft 624. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U203	12th item: Second reading of the draft law amending the Hunting Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Committee on the Environment. Mr. Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, as a rapporteur. It sounds like Vakra's coming. You're welcome to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to stand before you and once again introduce the draft law amending the Hunting Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act and what has taken place between the first and second reading in the Committee on the Environment. I recall that the draft was launched by the Committee on the Environment on 8 May 2018. We completed our first reading here with you on 16 May 2018 and the deadline for amendments was 22 May at 12 noon. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees on the draft. In the period between first and second readings, we have dealt with the draft once in the Committee on the Environment. Of course, it is important to note that the opinion of stakeholders on the draft has been supportive of this, which we have already identified at the start of the draft. In addition, in the meantime, on 28 May, we received an opinion from the Government of the Republic, which supports the draft and recommends that we adopt it here in the Riigikogu. So we also have ministerial and government coordination. In short, I remember that our first reading lasted several hours and we actually had two questions. We also discussed these issues at first and second readings in the Commission. First of all, when we talk about training for all foreign tourists in bird hunting, in order to improve their knowledge of Estonian hunting law, their understanding of Estonian hunting culture and ethics, what is the volume of such training. According to the original plan, it's almost a couple of hours of training. The second question was whether 'foreign yachts' must complete this training every time. The answer is, in short, yes. Tõnu Traks, adviser to the Forest Department of the Ministry of the Environment, gave us the answer. He said that it was important to complete the training on site, just before the hunt, as then guests can best be introduced to local peculiarities and safety requirements. It is therefore a good thing that hunters receive training every time again. The third question, which we did not discuss at first reading, but which became an important topic at the committee session, was what the training organisers must meet. Tõnu Traks explained that these conditions are specified by regulation (e.g. the existence of a valid hunting certificate in Estonia, five-year hunting practice). In future, all trainers, or trainers, will have to meet the requirements set out in the regulation. In summary, the Committee on the Environment also made four procedural decisions on the draft: firstly, the proposal to put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda for today; secondly, the proposal to stop the second reading; thirdly, if we finish this second reading here with you today; then, the draft will be put on the Riigikogu agenda by 13 June 2018; and at the same time, the final vote on the draft will be carried out. All these decisions were made by the Committee on the Environment in an environmentally friendly environment and unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U205	Questions for the waitress. Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U206	Thank you. Good Rainer! The question is a little more general. I guess I've been wondering why this bird hunt is such a sensitive subject. Let's take as an example that if I put on Facebook a picture where I'm with a gun and three shot geese, let's say, I'm not a hunter, it's an imaginary example, there's gonna be about such reactions that Thomas, are you out of your mind? However, when I put a picture of spinnin' and three pikes caught in it, there are questions about where you tried and at what time, I'll come along, etc. What, though, do you think such distinctions will take place in wildlife?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U207	Thank you, good Thomas! You know how to ask questions so that they are truly philosophical, in this case I would use the word 'environmental philosophy'. Of course, I must say that, between the first and second readings, the Committee on the Environment did not discuss this issue. However, I will take a minute and, in the light of this draft, I will explain once again that this whole bird hunting issue has been a matter of ethics. And as you certainly know, ethics is ultimately very difficult to write into the law. On the one hand, as a first-level economist in higher education, I can say that there are certainly evolutionary questions here as to whether we want it or not. Man considers himself the crown of nature. He takes it so that he's the highest, then there's mammals, and then we get to fish and arthropods, eventually to the only hollows, and so on. This has inevitably been the case so far. I think that right now, in an ethical picture, there really is a limit for society where fish are still the ones you can put up the picture. Although I believe that there are definitely societies and perhaps such an understanding will reach Estonia at some point, where putting pictures of fish as living souls on online or social media raises questions. Ultimately, ethics is always measurable in one cultural space and one society. There are certain ethical rules, and it is clear that the hunting ethics of foreign tourists do not correspond to them at the moment. On the other hand, I believe that there are certainly societies where you also have this picture of the three fishes, which, of course, depends on what kind of fish is specifically said exactly as you quoted about the bird picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U208	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U209	Thank you, good Chairman. Good chairman of the committee! At first reading it remained open to the question of what could be the indicative price of the exam. Have you discussed this a bit between readings and gathering information from the Ministry? And if the regulation is going to be made or amended anyway, will there be additional conditions for prosecution of hunters? This was also asked you several times at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U210	Thank you. First of all, I commend you. I am pleased that you are working very well and in very detail in the big hall on this same amendment to the Hunting Act. Indeed, in the Commission too, we had a question for Mr Traks about the cost. He made it very clear that the cost can only be derived from the volume of the training which the regulation provides for. I can briefly say that we are not now forecasting and are not going to throw up the numbers that are going to cost. But I will say, as it has been agreed, that each time a hunter pays for the training, or a hunter. The specific number cannot be given now, but the answer was in any case that it is not hundreds or thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U211	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U212	Thank you! Is this legislative amendment or requirement also proportionate to the practice common in other European countries? And do our cultural and traditional habits not in some way violate the rights of hunters from abroad, for example, when exposed to a trophy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U213	Thank you. We have now embarked on this slippery path to take a step backwards: I will answer basically again the questions that I answered in this Chamber at first reading. But I think this is such an important question that, in short, these basics can be repeated here. This is clearly a question of hunting ethics and hunting culture. The Committee on the Environment has jointly, together with all the parties concerned, found with ornithologists, the Estonian Hunters' Society, but also with the Ministry that Estonian hunting culture and hunting ethics deserve to be followed, which is important to us. It is therefore vital that we really teach this knowledge and explain our cultural space to those who come here to hunt birds.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U214	Thank you. Both at first reading and today in this Chamber, you yourself said that the main aim is to change ethics, or people's behaviour. However, you have said that this is very difficult to do. The question, which was asked the first time, is what alternatives are possible to change the behaviour of the hunter. What are the effects of these possible alternatives and the effects of the same current solution? I would even point out one component: if, every time, this training is really being carried out, what does it mean for the tourism industry as a whole and for our small businesses on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U215	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U216	Thank you. As I said, all the parties have been involved from the outset, and the Committee on the Environment had already been discussing this issue before the ornithologists came up with a general referral to which 2569 signatures had been obtained. As I pointed out at the first reading, 600,000 ligaments per year are hunted in Finland, while we have almost 12,000 geese-parties in total. Consequently, the Committee on the Environment has indeed jointly, consensually concluded that this is an ethical issue. Thoughts and ideas have certainly been more on the table, but there is one question that you have asked repeatedly, I apologise for not answering last time. The same question was also asked in the committee by a good colleague, Mr Metsoja: if, despite the training, the hunters are still breaking the rules, who is responsible? Tõnu Traks actually explained for a very long time that sanctions have been imposed for such infringements and that the organiser of the hunt is still responsible. Now it has been said here too. If someone participates in the prescribed training and subsequently violates the rules, then it must be followed by punishment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U217	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U218	Thank you! Now, if we assume that Estonian society is extremely vulnerable when they see similar pictures, shouldn't we look at the whole media and film art more widely, not just social media? 'The peculiarity of the Russian yacht' is not a good movie because it gives a different signal. So on social media, we ban it, but on television, we show movies where hunters pose with their trophies.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U219	Thank you. I understand that in this Chamber too, we pay very much attention specifically to the picture and to what is happening either in social media or in the media at all. In fact, the objective of this training is clearly wider. The training still consists of three parts, and I'm going to read them out so that we can all understand the same thing. Putting up social media and images is just one piece of the nature of this problem. The training will consist of the following elements: first, legislation on bird hunting in Estonia, second, hunting safety requirements, third, Estonian hunting culture and hunting ethics and good hunting practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U220	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U221	Thank you. I really asked about this training last time. This is now going to be every time: if a hunter comes here regularly, for example, every year, for bird hunting, then he must complete this training. Isn't that a bit overstretched, going overboard?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U222	Thank you. For example, the hunting season for duck is from 20 August to 30 November. We have spoken with the Estonian Hunters' Society on this subject that there are few people who can hunt here once and for all in this short time. But now from this question, if a person really comes every year on August 20th, will he have to go through this training again? The reply from the Ministry, with which the Commission was satisfied, was this. The training shall be carried out at the specific place where the hunt begins. Every place has its own natural peculiarities, its own specificities arising from the distance or proximity of its inhabitants, and other peculiarities arising from the factors of the human environment. There are also different safety requirements everywhere. At the moment, the Ministry has the knowledge that this training could take place again every time. As you certainly know, repeating safety rules when weapons are in play is more beneficial to everyone. If we go over the basic rules an hour or two hours before we hunt, it's not like we're going down the sidelines. However, as I said, these decisions are ultimately reflected in the regulation. I therefore defend the idea that we do not have to lock all the details in this Riigikogu. As you said, if you can see that such a scheme does not work, we have people who have already completed training three or four times and are indeed coming here every weekend, then perhaps it makes sense to formulate it differently in the regulation. Either way, we're gonna write this down and we're gonna take it from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U223	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In some ways, my question is perhaps the subject of first reading, but I am still going to ask you a question. Of course, humans never have the wisdom, but how much of this training money goes down, for example, in nature conservation? Besides the fact that training affects hunter behaviour and maybe some kind of ethics.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U225	Thank you. At this point, I certainly agree with you that more knowledge is better than less knowledge and repetition is the mother of wisdom. As far as the cost of training is concerned, the members of the Commission also asked for this, we agreed that it would be exactly as high as it would take to carry out this training. Maybe it's not going to be somewhere in the state fund or in the Hunters' Association, but it's exactly the amount that the Ministry, or the contractual partners elected by the Environmental Board, are going specifically to carry out this training. The aim is to keep the cost of training as low as possible, not to add any premiums, let us call them taxes, fund financing or something else. The aim is to make these trainings still at the cost of training, so we will use this expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U226	Thank you, Rainer Vakra! No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U227	Thank you and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U228	I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U229	Good Chairman! Good coworkers! Hunting requires a terrible sense of patience, which I do not have. So I have not become either a passionate hunter or a snake sinker. Today I hear this story a second time, but it's not convincing, it's not convincing! We haven't had any problems with the law about someone hunting for a raccoon with a shotgun, for example, or we would have had a lot of drastic cases where a hunter with a loaded gun would have jumped over the fence and lost his leg because of a loose weapon. Rather, the problem is that hunters exhibit trophies. Today we are talking about birds, but obviously it is also extending to wild animals and, as we have heard here, to fishermen. And this in terms of social media: we are only talking about social media because people are vulnerable there. But a cartoon based on Edgar Valter's book, which speaks of Ramses, is the violent destruction, destruction, and posing on their bodies. What do hunters really think about this? After all, this culture has actually provided the basis for our writing. Let's take the cave paintings: even then, the pictures of caring and a binding society were not taken, but of the hunting of the mammoth and how it was finally captured because it was vital at the time. If they still couldn't get the mammoth, the litter just died. Today, with the development of our society, we have come exactly to the point that the old culture is no longer taking us forward and breaking all these 'eyes'! We're only talking about social media, but we're going to the art fairs, what do we see? Royal yachts and simple yachts. It has held this culture over the ages, as well as a culture of weapon use. Now we're gonna take away one part of it. Soon, some people may be disturbed by the fact that some men have a hat that is typical of a hunter and has a wild boar on it. And if people start to be disturbed by fishing, and if men and women exhibit themselves with fish, maybe these "strips," lanterns, hooks, tamils, and the fisherman will have to move on in the disguise suit. Well, it makes you laugh, but we understand that lawmaking is a serious thing. My own husband is personally upset by this emergency hospital showdown. I think a lot of female colleagues agree with me that the operation is still an appalling sight. We know it's film art, but we do understand emotionally what it is. Where do we come from when we open the so-called box and find that vulnerable strata of society can collect signatures, which will result in us restricting the coverage of the natural part of life? I remember how great the victory was a year ago when wild animals were banned from participating in the circus. The animal cheerleaders applauded upstairs, and the argument was that no one in the circus wanted to smell burnt wild hairs. But the pets, the dogs, the cats, could still be in the circus. Is the smell of burnt dog or cat skin more pleasant than that of a wild animal? If we want to bang and we don't have any more clever ways to get back on smart phones, we're gonna slap all the fishes and all of them! Isn't the mosquito phase the same in itself? And let's not forget the soup and the germ! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U230	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U231	Good meeting manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a hunter myself since 1986. I am a member of the board of the Estonian Hunters' Association and also the head of the hunting support group of the Riigikogu. So I'm about to declare that I really represent the interests of hunters here. When we say foreign tourists aren't ethical, they come here, spit on our order, our laws and our beliefs, take it or leave it, but I don't believe it. I know very well what hunting culture was like in 1986 and during the consultative period, what it was like during the first years of the Republic of Estonia's restoration of independence, and what it has become today. In the days of the council and in the early 1990s, when the buffet with a five-pointed strap from the army was really pulled on, the dummies had just come out of the barn and sometimes the hunters were either half drunk or quite drunk, the situation has changed dramatically today. Thanks to what? It has changed precisely because of these hated foreign hunters and our hunters' visits, hunting trips to our friends abroad. That's where the culture is taken. All of what we see now is hunting, hunting, decent hunting clothes, respectful attitude towards hunted game, trophy recognition and respect for hunted game, when the hunt ends, Estonia's hunting culture has come in the last 10 to 15 years thanks to these same foreign tourists or connections with foreign hunters. So the fact that foreign hunters don't have a hunting culture, they don't know what hunting culture is, doesn't exactly scratch my ear right now. About petition. Of course, if there are violations and some things that are reluctant to certain groups of people, that affect their psyche or hurt their feelings, then the matter must be clarified, the subject raised. But the petition we're talking about today and I referred to last time was the madness of people who really didn't understand the content, but were subject to provocation and lies. Petitions began with false claims. It started with the words that thousands of hunters come to Estonia every autumn and illegally kill thousands of water birds, there are illegal massacres of thousands of water birds. The solid statistics are that hunters actually come to Estonia every autumn with a circle of 600 in total, not thousands. And if we look at how many of these birds are killed, including illegally, no illegal hunts have been detected. No illegal foreign tourist hunts have been detected. Remember this! And if we look at the numbers that were very clearly mentioned here last time, we dissect them, then in Estonia, in the autumn bird-hunting season, there are indeed 12000.3000 geese and ducks, while our neighbours, Finns, hunt 400000.600,000. The same ornithologists who defrauded the people with this insane petition themselves admit that there is, in fact, no danger to the population of these same geese and ducks. These same claims... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U232	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U233	...and the social media photos that were twirled here are several years ago. Since the autumn of last year, the hunting season of 2017, no pictures have been found on social media suggesting unbecoming hunting. And it is debatable, too, whether the images found on Kuwait's social media pages are appalling at all. If a group of hunters has shot a few dozen hunting birds and they are also photographed at the end of hunting day (de), then it is indeed a debate and dilemma place, whether or not it is contrary to any ethics, because the enhancement, display and presentation of hunting trophies are part of the hunting culture. So I am still of the opinion that our Committee on the Environment has, in a sense, gone to compromise in order to get the subject off the table in some way. Last time, I commended Rainer Vakra for having managed this thing sensibly. That's what I'm gonna say today. The ambitions that the petitioners initially had were completely insane. If we had gone along with it, we would have painted Estonia's so-called hunter world map into a black spot. This would have shown that the Estonian state is untrustworthy: we do not trust the certificates issued by partner organisations or institutions in other countries, which prove that the relevant hunting courses and examinations have been passed, as well as the acceptance and recognition of hunting ethics, which must and will be accompanied by this. If one person has passed the exam, so-called hunter, he must embrace and embrace this ethics. Of course, there are always black sheep, but 99.9% admit the same hunting order and hunting ethics, embrace it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U234	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U235	Honourable Chairman! However, I will also explain for one minute the points that are actually outside this social media. I saw that we were joined by Andres Metsoja, a member of the Environment Committee, who certainly knows these answers. But it seems to me that not Raivo Time, but a colleague who spoke before him spoke for a very long time only about what is happening in the internet openings and how someone takes a picture. Let me give you an example: this is a list of the laws in force in Estonia, which makes sense to make clear to all tourists. For example, the fact that in Estonia a watercraft with a working engine may not be released from waterfalls, or what kind of wild game, including birds, can be released at all, which species are in the red book. Thirdly, in Estonia, lead wounds must not be used in the hunting of waterbirds, which is a very important issue in society. What are the requirements for the use of a hound dog? And also, you can't use electronic decoy. Or more simply: what is the right to stay on foreign land and water resources according to the law in force in Estonia? What can and must not be done while on a foreign property, including by the water body: where you can camp and make a fire, which branches can be broken, whether you can build a hut, where and how wide is the shoreline, or where someone can move? Or, for example, the fact that in Estonia there is no way nearer than 200 metres from the building to make a bang. These are certainly questions that Raivo Time, a hunter since 1986, knows in his sleep, but I am not sure that an outsider knows that. And I think that, in this case, this training is not just necessary; it is an essential and sensible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U236	Raivo Aeg's name was named, and he has the right to take care of it. Please, Raivo Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U237	Yeah, I'm definitely taking advantage of that right. I don't know, one is talking about one thing and the other is talking about another thing. When we're talking about hunting safety here, bird hunting is one of the safest ways to hunt, like a hunt for the brain. So this statement that we are going to ensure the safety of the hunt through this training is absolutely not the case. Other guest hunters and tourists who take part in our other hunting methods, we do not require any additional training of two hours each time they come here. We believe that hunting documents issued in their country have been recognised as competent hunters who know about ethics, safety techniques, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U238	I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to bill 633. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U239	We are now arriving at the second reading of Bill 607 of the Defence Forces Service Act and other Acts, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. The waitress of the National Defence Commission is Ants Laaneots. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws on 2 April. The first reading of the draft was completed on 2 May. No amendments to the draft were tabled outside the commission by the deadline of 16 May, including 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 29 May and 4 June. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior also attended the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 29 May. Once again, the principles of the bill. Estonia's military defence and defence capabilities are based on a reserve force formed by persons trained in military service on the basis of military forces, whose skills are preserved and enhanced during study gatherings, which is why the draft under discussion is important for national defence and security. According to § 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, all citizens are obliged to take part in national defence on the basis and according to the procedure laid down in the Act. Unfortunately, not all Estonian male citizens comply with this requirement of the Constitution. According to the Bill, in addition to precepts, coercion and misdemeanour sanctions, the Defence Forces and the Defence Resources Board can repeatedly request the Administrative Court to suspend the validity or issue of the right to drive a motor vehicle, the right to fly a recreational craft and jetty, the permit to acquire a weapon, the fishing card and the hunting permit. Amendments. I note here that Johannes Kert, Member of the National Defence Commission, proposed an amendment to the draft by the commission to raise the age limit of the conscripts invited for military service up to 45 years. This, of course, gave rise to discussions and disagreements within the Commission. At its meeting on 29 May, Johannes Kert offered a maximum age of 35 years for the consensual candidates invited to serve in the military service. At the request of the National Defence Committee, the Ministry of Defence issued an opinion on the increase to 45 years of the age limit for professional persons invited to military service, which was restricted to access. I can briefly say that it was negative. The National Defence Committee did not reach a consensus on raising the age limit for conscripts invited to military service from 27 years up. As a general rule, the National Defence Committee will make its decisions by consensus, and we have tried to abide by it. On 30 May, Johannes Kert, Member of the National Defence Commission, announced that he would withdraw his proposal to set a higher age limit in the draft for conscripts invited to military service on the grounds that the draft procedure and the amendment would not delay progress with other consensus positions. In this context, I note that raising the age limit of the conscripts invited to military service would also have been an additional leverage to ensure the fulfilment of the military duty. I think it would be worth waiting for the impact of implementing the sanctions provided for in this draft. There is a need for consensus on defence issues, which is very important. In addition, the draft in question requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, as it concerns legal proceedings. Further on the amendments tabled. The Committee on National Defence has tabled three specific amendments to the draft. In addition, the National Defence Committee made some linguistic clarifications that are underlined in the text of the draft. The officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the initiator of the draft act supported the amendments proposed by the National Defence Commission and the linguistic clarifications made. At its meeting on 4 June, the National Defence Committee approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading, the list of amendments and the explanatory memorandum. Previously, at the meeting on 29 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 6 June, i.e. today, to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading and, if so, to carry out the third reading on 13 June 2018. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U241	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Will the National Defence Commission then return to the issue of this maximum age for conscripts during its next or subsequent sessions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U243	That's a bit broader. We are now looking at what our Nordic colleagues are doing. For example, we know that Finns have also extended it from 27 to 30 years. Since we did not reach a consensus in the Committee on National Defence, we did not want to waste time, after all, we are about to have a so-called summer break. Maybe we'll come back to that in the fall or next spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U244	Thank you, Ants Laaneots! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I am saying so much myself that I urge the Commission to reconsider whether this draft really requires a majority in plenary. As a matter of urgency, I say that I do not need to review this draft, but the initiator should be consulted. Three amendments have been tabled, all from the lead committee: the first, the second and the third. Second reading of Bill 607 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U245	The following is the second reading of the Act on Weapons, Strategic Goods, Explosives and Other Laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waitress of the National Defence Committee, Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U246	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Weapons Act and other laws is before you today at second reading, and I will remind you of its content. This is a very important draft. In fact, with this draft, we give the private sector the right to handle weapons systems, munitions and ammunition in Estonia. This is primarily for three major purposes: firstly, to ensure, in the long term, the production of Estonia's own strategic reserves, especially ammunition, but hopefully also weapons; secondly, to give our defence industry the wind to its wings; thirdly, which is particularly important in order to channel our most expensive money, which we collect from taxpayers and by means of national defence procurement, into different systems, through our defence industry, into developing our own economy. Now for the second reading. I would remind you that the Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 9 April. The first reading of the bill was completed in this Chamber, including on 2 May. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 16 May. All kinds of proposals for the draft were made by the lead committee and the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before the second reading at its meeting on 28 May, 29 May and 4 June. Representatives of interest groups involved in the preparation of the Estonian Defence Industry Association Ingvar Pärnamäe and member Valdek Laur participated in these meetings, in addition to Jens Haug, member of the Management Board of OÜ Eesti Arsenal. The Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, tabled 31 amendments to the draft. The National Defence Committee identified the interest groups involved and invited them to the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 29 May. Raido Reimann and Erkki Tikan Front Line from NGO Estonia participated in this meeting of the National Defence Committee. As I mentioned, before the second reading of the draft, the Ministry of the Interior tabled 31 amendments, which were signed by the Minister of the Interior. They were dealt with in a very thorough and separate manner by the National Defence Committee. As the proposals of the Ministry of Internal Affairs concerned fundamental changes to the arms law, for which the Committee on Legal Affairs is the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on National Defence also asked about them for a fundamental position of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee had no substantive objections to the proposals of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. At the same time, the Committee on Legal Affairs drew attention to the fact that, in accordance with paragraph 9 of the 'Governings in the Riigikogu to shape good practice in drafting the draft law' established by the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, when the commission decides to substantially reform the draft before the second reading, in particular by supplementing it with new regulations of fundamental importance, it proposes to suspend the second reading in order to allow members of the Riigikogu to submit amendments to the amended parts of the draft. If the second reading was interrupted, the draft could not be enforced as a law from 1 July, including as proposed by the draft and by the National Defence Committee. Namely, the Ministry of the Interior opened a completely new topic, which I will talk about later, and as a result we should have, following our own good legislative practice, today propose that the second reading be interrupted. At the same time, the preparation of this specific draft law has been going on for almost two years and the objective is specifically defined, namely the defence industry, the handling of weapons, ammunition and ammunition. The Committee on National Defence decided by consensus that we will initiate a separate draft for these amendments made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Committee, handed over the corresponding draft in this Chamber today, and it is now up to the Riigikogu Board to decide which committee will then deal with it either by the Legal Affairs Committee or by the National Defence Committee. There's one more thing I want to mention on the remote. Both myself personally and the National Defence Committee in general is of the opinion that opening up new major issues through amendments coming from ministries and being made on the government's own drafts is not in itself good practice. This actually confuses the procedure and provides the basis for the so-called cluster bill, i.e. the opening of some new topics before the second reading. I would also like to stress that one of the reasons why the Ministry of the Interior came up with amendments with such a substantial new substance was the need to transpose the Arms Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council by 14 September. At the same time, it is clear that the transposition of such European directives will not come unexpectedly, these are long-term processes. We discussed that, although Member States need to adapt their legal systems by 14 September, to ensure that this directive enters into force and is implemented, it is essentially not possible to do so. While the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior made the pretext that the adoption of implementing provisions and other regulations at European level has been delayed, this is still being done, but the very clear guideline or advice of the National Defence Committee to the Ministry of the Interior was to address the relevant European institutions in order to request an extension of the implementation of this directive. We are honest, if Estonia, which has already shown its willingness to handle matters very quickly and to decide, cannot complete this procedure by 14 September, then I fear that there will be a great deal of such countries in Europe. And we have a completely legal and substantive basis for making such a proposal. Now to the amendments that have come to you. Most of them are due to our own observations, to the comments of the National Defence Commission officials and to the proposals made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. These are factual details, linguistic and regulatory changes. So we actually haven't changed the content here that was initially negotiated. The reasons for the amendments are there in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft; I am not going to report all this to you here. Those who have taken an interest in it must have come to know them all. Two amendments were also tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, one of which received the support of the National Defence Committee and the other not. The second proposal did not receive any votes in favour and therefore does not come to the discussion in this Chamber. But we had a substantive debate, and also the representative of EKRE, Tiit Madison, agreed that, in fact, this regulation already exists. The proposal concerned those persons whose background is checked either to regulate more precisely at the level of the law, so that not only persons who have received special training in Estonia, but also persons who have received special training in friendly countries, could receive such permits. In fact, this regulation exists at national level. And now for procedural decisions. At its meeting on 4 June, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft second-reading procedural documents. Already earlier, at the meeting on 29 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 6 June, i.e. today, and to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading. And I very much hope that this bill in the Riigikogu, when the second reading is completed today, will still be adopted during this session before the summer break. It will then enter into force on 1 July, which is very important to our defence industry. I would like to thank the officials of our National Defence Committee and all those who have worked on this very large draft at a very rapid pace. This has been a very big job and this is an important subject. We are making political decisions here, but it must also be very well-formed. So thank you to everyone who's done this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U247	Questions for the waitress. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U248	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. I heard a name: you said that the EKRE representative came to the committee to replace Tiit Madison. Since when do we have such arrangements in the Riigikogu that not a member of the Riigikogu can replace a member of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U249	I'm sorry, I was wrong! There was still Mr Jaak Madison, who is a member of the Riigikogu. Somewhere in the brain, something came up. Thank you very much for your correction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U250	No more questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U251	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll pick up where the previous speaker left off. This is one very important law that we are currently dealing with here, and a relatively classic example of how life in business and in the whole sector develops ahead of legislation: legislation proposes some kind of boundaries that will no longer allow for further development. What we are actually doing here is creating a legal framework so that companies in our own country can start not only to produce but also to maintain, import and export ammunition, munitions, combat vehicles and other weapons of war. And it doesn't just concern what we call a weapon of war in the classic sense. To date, we have gathered over 110 companies who are interested in or contribute to the defence industry in one way or another. They deal with all kinds of military issues directly or even more indirectly related to them. For example, electronic warfare - things that do not fire but are very important in order to ensure that in today's conditions war can be waged, energy solutions, personal equipment, cyber defence, shipbuilding, laser systems, military medicine, military vehicles, border protection and observation systems, all kinds of pioneer solutions, as well as weapons and ammunition, robotics, communication systems, training equipment and simulators, other support systems and services. Very many of them we had here in the Riigikogu a month or a half ago for members and employees of the Riigikogu. An unmanned land vehicle was also driving around in this courtyard. In my former Ministry of Defence, I was very active in this matter. Similarly, the previous speaker has been to fairs around the world, where our defence industry has been outside with this highly export-oriented field. We also need to open up more opportunities to them as legislators. There are certain things in Estonia that we cannot do in the ammunition industry, be it shells or so, our current laws simply do not allow us to do here. But I think from the point of view of national security, the more we have on the ground this sector, the more domestic industry, the better. Imagine the crisis. For example, in the event of war, there will certainly be all kinds of physical restrictions on bringing things, technology and supplies here, and the more we have these things at home, including in terms of security of supply, the better it will be for us. This law has been prepared for a very long time and it has not been too long for this procedure in the Riigikogu. I would very much like to thank the people, first the members of the committee, but also the Riigikogu as a whole, that the first reading went pretty smoothly on us. It's a fairly time-critical thing. I hope that we will receive support for this today too. The third reading should take place next week so that we can formally declare and enforce this law from 1 July. All the new technology that the Estonian state procures for the Defence Forces, whether they are infantry battle machines or self-propelled artillery, is in itself weapons systems. It is not possible to turn them off and send them elsewhere to the company for maintenance. It would be very difficult if, because of our legislation, we were to take care of our technique in a foreign country, where laws allow it. We would do this law a very important service to the export-oriented, highly innovative, very expensive and very knowledge-based sector. Thanks, everybody! And on behalf of my group, I can also say that all the members of the group support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U252	There is no further wish for negotiations. 16 amendments have been tabled for draft 615; we will review them. As you understand, the amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee itself have naturally been taken into account. The first, second and third proposals are from the National Defence Committee. The fourth is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and is fully accounted for. The fifth has been rejected by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, but is not voted in plenary. The sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 proposals are from the National Defence Committee. Second reading of Bill 615 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U253	The following is the second reading of § 102 of the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, as amended by the Act 635. The waitress of the National Defence Commission is Madis Milling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U254	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 14 May and the first reading took place on 30 May. No amendments to the draft were tabled outside the commission by the deadline for the submission of amendments, including by 10.30 a.m. on 4 June. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on Monday 4 June and tabled one amendment aimed at bringing the title of the draft into line with the norm rules. § 35 (4) of the Rules on Standard Techniques of the Drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu, approved by the Board of the Riigikogu, states that if the amendment to the Act consists solely of supplementing the Act, the draft will be titled as a law supplementing the Act. Paragraph 35 (3) of the Rules states that if only one paragraph, paragraph or paragraph is amended or repealed, the title of that section number may also be included. The same principle arises from the rule of good law and regulation of the Government of the Republic. The initiator of the draft act supported the amendment. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 4 June 2018, the National Defence Committee approved by consensus the draft text at second reading, the list of amendments and the explanatory memorandum. At the above-mentioned meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading and to send the draft to the third reading by 13 June, if the second reading is terminated. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U255	Any questions for the waitress? Thank you, Madis Milling! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. One amendment to the draft was tabled by the National Defence Committee itself and there is no problem with it. The second reading of Bill 635 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U256	Second reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Flag Act initiated by the Constitutional Commission 599. The rapporteur is Jaak Madison, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U257	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading has received the draft Act amending the Estonian Flag Act, according to which the anthem of the Republic of Estonia, Friedrich Paciuse 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy', is marked by the words of Johann Voldemar Jannsen. The Commission discussed the second reading procedure on 29 May, where it agreed to send the draft to second reading and to support the completion of the second reading so that the third reading could take place exactly one week later, on 13 June. All these decisions were consensual. No amendments were received within the deadline. So the atmosphere was very pleasantly friendly and cooperative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U258	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Jaak Madison! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There were no amendments to the draft 599. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U259	The second reading of the Act amending the Law of the Chancellor of Justice, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 609. The manager's gonna take a five-minute break before that. We'll proceed at 18.11.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U260	The break taken by the manager is over. We will continue with the agenda: the second reading of the draft Act supplementing the Law of the Chancellor of Justice, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Jüri Adams, waitress of the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U261	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sorry I'm late, and I hope it never happens again! Coming to the draft, I would like to remind you of its content: the Chancellor of Justice will be given two additional tasks. Firstly, Estonia has joined the United Nations Resolution adopted in 1993, which obliges Member States to designate a human rights compliance authority fulfilling the relevant conditions. That's what we'd call the Chancellor of Justice with his office. Secondly, Estonia is a party to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, where there is also such an obligation that each country must designate an institution or bodies to comply with this Convention. It would also be a task for the Chancellor of Justice. No amendments to this draft were received, but two letters were received to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: one from the Foundation of the Institute of Human Rights and the other from the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. There were two important points in both letters. One was that they approved this decision or at least agreed to what we are currently dealing with here. Secondly, both letters gave rise to doubts as to whether they will be sufficiently involved in the work they have been doing for years and what is going to coincide with the content of the Convention and the resolution in the future. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has no reason to believe that the Chancellor of Justice, with his office, would not involve them and other competent organisations in this work all the more so as the obligation to engage is enshrined in these original international texts. On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have a proposal to conclude the second reading of the draft today and to refer it to the third reading that will take place in a week's time next Wednesday, if it were also hoped that this draft would be adopted as a law. I also said here last time that these two decisions will undoubtedly involve costs that should be reflected in the state budget for next year. As the process of preparing the state budget project is underway, it would make sense that we do not leave the adoption of this law to autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U262	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether to put this in real form here, but I have a protocol to clarify that one of these two letters was from the Human Rights Centre and not from the Institute of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U264	I'm sorry, you're absolutely right. I'm trying to fix my mess in the verbatim. I was looking for the corresponding text at the moment I said it, to quote exactly, but I couldn't find it and so-called fantasized. So the Foundation Estonian Human Rights Centre is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U265	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, George Adams! I'm opening negotiations. No amendments to draft 609 were tabled. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U266	Second reading of Bill 616 of the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U267	Afternoon, Honourable President of the Riigikogu and good members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, this is a situation in which we are ready for a second reading of the draft law on the protection of personal data. Journalists have already shown some interest in this draft and that is why I am going straight to the amendments. Indeed, Amendment 1 concerns the processing of personal data for journalistic purposes. If there are people in this Chamber today who think that there is such a thing as freedom of the press in Estonia on 6 June 2018, I assure them that this freedom of the press will remain the same after the adoption of this draft, despite the first proposal made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the content of which is the processing of personal data for journalistic purposes. In particular, personal data may be processed for journalistic purposes without the consent of the data subject, in particular in the media, where there is an overriding public interest and this is in line with the principles of journalistic ethics. The disclosure of personal data shall not unduly prejudice the rights of the data subject. We are debating whether this overriding public interest means some sort of media muzzle. It is a valid law and the press has acted in accordance with this law. What is the public interest, or how is it to be understood? The public interest refers to a situation which seeks the public's attention. The public interest is in a dominant position where the public interest is so important that the disclosure of personal data is justified. The overriding requirement of public interest, as a consideration argument, seeks to balance and justify interference with privacy. The mere public interest does not strike a balance between the right to privacy and freedom of the press. The General Data Protection Regulation requires the legislator to reconcile the right to privacy and freedom of expression. This can only be done by achieving a balance. This balance has been in Estonian law so far and this balance should remain on the basis of the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The question has been whether one Member State can derogate from this general regulation. The answer is yes. With regard to the processing of personal data for journalistic purposes and for academic, artistic or literary expression, Member States shall provide for exemptions or derogations, including where necessary to reconcile the right to the protection of personal data with freedom of expression and information. So this point is not about harassment of the press, but about the privilege of dealing with personal data even in situations where there is an overriding public interest without the consent of the data subject. This was the first amendment. Our colleague Aadu Must, a member of the Riigikogu, has tabled another amendment. In his view, it would be necessary to lay down the role of the Ethics Committee in the field of research. The amendment is as follows: if the research is based on different types of personal data, the Ethics Committee in this field will verify before fulfilling the conditions set out in this section. If there is no Ethics Committee in the field of science, compliance will be verified by the Data Protection Inspectorate. In the case of personal data stored in the National Archives, the rights of the Ethics Committee are in the National Archives. We have considered this proposal of Aadu in substance. The following third amendment adds one addition to the Aadu proposal that it concerns both scientific and historical research. So that's where we got over. The fourth amendment concerns the situation after the death of the data subject. Aadu has proposed that after the death of the data subject, the processing of his or her personal data is permitted with the written consent of the spouse, relative, sister or brother of the data subject or, in the absence of such persons, the successor, except in other cases provided for in the law. The processing of personal data shall not require consent if 30 years have elapsed since the death of the data subject or 60 years have elapsed since the death of the data subject who died underage. In this context, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs disagreed with the initiator of the proposal. The reason is as follows: we consider it reasonable to rely on the succession law, where the heir comes first, and all the relatives mentioned in this proposal may also be in the circle of heirs. After all, the essence of the proposal or matter is that consent should be obtained at least from one heir when there are several heirs. So the Commission did not consider it appropriate to change the legal logic in practice. As far as the fifth amendment is concerned, it is a repetition covered by another point from the same paragraph, i.e. where the law provides otherwise. With the seventh proposal, we have supplemented the list of death data so that the time and place of burial are mentioned in addition to personal data, namely name, sex, time of birth and death and the fact of death. This is proposed by local authorities, who also keep cemeteries registers. In real life, creating such a restriction would be completely unreasonable. We think it is right for loved ones to be able to find graves without wanting to make it any more difficult. The remaining amendments are clarifications or additions in the interest of legal clarity. These may often be the case, for example, the Data Protection Inspectorate or the competent supervisory authority. Amendment 14 is an 'implementing provisions'. As we know, this bill, when it becomes a law, must be accompanied by the draft implementing law which was received by the Riigikogu at the beginning of this week. And I am telling you that there is no good reason to start the debate on this draft implementing law before our autumn session. Within the remaining four working days, we will not be able to conduct any substantive discussions after the launch of the summer, but these implementing provisions are also important. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to conclude the second reading of the draft today and, if this happens, to adopt it as a law on 13 June next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U268	Questions for the waitress. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U269	Thank you. Good Marko, in the Commission we argued quite a lot on this subject and, in fact, quite meaningfully. I believe that the Aadu Black amendments have finally received a good solution in the Commission. The fact that we did not see any implementing acts in the Commission continues to bother me with the procedure for this draft. Yesterday, the government really handed them over to Parliament. In this light, however, I have a question for you whether, as chairman of the committee, you are prepared to interrupt reading this draft law today in order to look together at these acts, both implementing acts and the main text. Looking at the implementing acts, we can say that we are very likely to be dealing with the same issue of the press there too. So we should actually look at them together. Are you ready to stop reading this bill today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U270	Thanks! Not ready, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not proposed such a proposal to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U271	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Overwhelming interest and the fact that the rights of the data subject have not been overly damaged, who appreciates these things? Well, that depends on the point of view of the evaluator. Who's in charge of these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U273	First of all, journalists themselves need to learn the place of the first consideration, based on their own ethical understanding. And as always in the Republic of Estonia, justice is finally enforced by the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U274	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U275	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'll join the previous questioner. The excessive interest and the fact that rights must not be unduly undermined mean that they may, in fact, be undermined, but not excessive. Do you think a proper law could even contain words like "overweight" and "overweight"?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U276	Thanks! This legal provision is currently in force in the Republic of Estonia and on the basis of this legal provision, Estonian journalists have received their articles written, their stories made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U277	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U278	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chairman of the Commission, waitress! You started your presentation and overview very nicely, and you stressed yourself that there has been a mix-up in the press, is there now going to be a restriction on the press? Would it not be necessary, therefore, to take time off, really to clarify this a little bit and to continue working with the Personal Data Protection Act? On the other hand, why did the Commission still reject Professor Aadu Black's good proposal on the residence details of the deceased? Why is their processing necessarily subject to consent before a person dies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U279	Thanks! The Commission did nothing but consider that it was justified to propose that the draft law be based on the law of succession, so that all laws would be structured in a "one-size-fits-all" sense. That was the reason. And I assure you that no further restrictions on the press are planned on this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U280	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U281	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! I'm actually going to continue the Raivo Põldaru question a little bit. I'm not a good lawyer, maybe I'm not a good lawyer, I'm not a lawyer at all, I'm a historian, but I don't quite understand whether this bill is a 'two-way street'. If, for example, this public interest is directed at a particular journalist, is the press also obliged to disclose its source? We are now taking the recent case of Igor Mang, who is accused by women whose name and face we don't know whose written statements to the police we can't identify with any of the prosecutors of harassment. So this particular example: should "The Spectator" reveal these sources in the current very clear public interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U282	Thanks! As far as media sources are concerned, we are not planning any changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U283	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U284	I have an informative question. I have a feeling that this law may not be as bad as some colleagues think. Since I have not read these directives, I am simply asking. In short, data are, for example, the year of birth and the place of residence. But is the photo taken by the paparazzi, for example, or if the neighbor's aunt knows that the man went to the Black Mari whorehouse at 10:30 p.m., data protection? Does this fall under this law or not? Data protection is still about the real things in the registers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U285	Thanks! I'm trying to answer the question. There is the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The best example is Princess Caroline of Monaco, who has been in court for at least ten years, trying to find out when her private life is and when she performs some sort of public functions. What makes sense is that in the meantime a public figure has to endure the fact that there is simply curiosity about his identity, but the European Court of Human Rights ruling says that he also has the right to private life.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U286	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U287	Good manager! Good waitress! I have been editor-in-chief for years and also head of the Estonian Journalists' Association. I've read my colleagues' views, and they think what you've come up with is bullshit. I'd like a so-called real answer from you now. Doesn't the journalists agree why some chairman of the Riigikogu commission takes the right to say that we must have this overwhelming public interest? The European directive and regulation say that it does not have to be, although it is in the current law. Why are we smarter here now than the ones it concerns?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U288	Thanks! This is not a law on freedom of the press, we have one of the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and expression in the Constitution, but a law on the protection of personal data. With this bill, we are trying to balance two interests: on the one hand, journalistic interest and on the other hand, the right of individuals to privacy. And all the time during the operation of this same law area, which is still in force, the Estonian press has all its stories done. I've heard that newspapers appear every day, and nobody gets anything taken away. And it still needs to be understood that the Riigikogu is making laws in Estonia. The proposals are made either by the members of the Riigikogu or by the committees as a whole. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously considered such an amendment to be justified. I correct: there was one impartial person, Jüri Adams, who did not just go into the subject. It's a description of his own words.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U289	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U290	I'll ask you a question and then I'll explain. The question is this: is there a difference between who has the data? I do not agree with Peter Ernits in the sense that the press undoubtedly does not represent a social interest. And least of all, the press represents an overwhelming social interest. The journalist's goal is to make a profit for his master. The question is that a personal wallet is profited at the expense of another person. So it cannot be said that the press represents the public interest, and it certainly does not do so in a capitalist society. But what is quite different is, for example, when a war commissariat collects data about his soldiers or students, that is national data. Let me get this straight. We're talking more about these national data, or still any data?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U291	In the Personal Data Protection Act, the press is concerned with one paragraph of a section and that's it. This is so-called positive discrimination in the sense that an advantage has been created for journalists. If there is an overwhelming or weighty existence, that depends on this legal term, i.e. the public interest, they have the right to treat personal data without seeking the consent of persons. If we take different Member States, it is not possible to point out such a single line, to make a single table that there is an overriding public interest here, there is a public interest here, and so on. Freedom of the press is simply regulated by very different legislation. However, there are examples where such a privilege is not specifically given to the press at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U292	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U293	Good manager and waitress! I don't get it, either, as a "journalist." We remember that when the European Commission gave a Member State the opportunity to grant an exception to the au pairs, we said that we did not have to. In the current Personal Data Protection Act, this is in the overriding public interest, but the current directive across Europe says that the public interest is sufficient. So my question is what makes Estonia different from the rest of the countries of the European Union, that we must continue to have an overwhelming public interest in the law, even though the public interest is enough for others.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U294	Thanks! I have explained to you that the practice in the Member States can vary greatly in the interaction of different laws. There may be much more stringent regulation elsewhere, which is not the result of this personal data regulation at all. In Estonia, the privacy of individuals is also considered important, which is reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U295	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Marko Pomerants! I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U296	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Sometimes it's nice to be in this hall, it's like being at a Zhvanetski concert and listening to super funny jokes. In the meantime, I remembered a case from 2006, when we randomly chose the president. I would like to remind you that I am about to say that I have no personal or political sympathy for either the Knight or Ilves, that before the elections, about two months earlier, the Knight's victory was predicted. This was discussed, summarised by all the local government leaders and examined who was in favour of them. And, as I recall, two months before the election, it was estimated that 14 votes would prevail, that it would go to the electoral body and that the Knight would win there plus 14. The knight, as we know, lost. At the time, I began to wonder what it was possible to explain. The first thing I looked into was our media. I took a well-known Internet portal and watched what was done there 30 days before the President's election day. A strange thing turned out: there was no public interest in Ilves. Absolutely nothing! Just the articles of praise. The criticisms were one and referred to in courtesy. This was an article from an American politician who also made politics in Estonia. He offered it to several large Estonian newspapers, but they didn't want it. Midweek printed it. Nowhere else would you have known about Thomas Hendrik Ilves, who he was: what he did, what sins he had. So there was absolutely no public interest. What's the interest in a presidential candidate? But there was a good old Knight, who everyone knew, not the way a man came from abroad and now we're going to study who still lived here. Within 30 days, we learned about him about about 200 interesting things. That a man was supposed to be demented then, in 2006, you should remember. 20 articles were written on this subject. Even some doctors, with authority, with higher education, with intelligent people, discussed the question of whether one can trust a person who calls 20 dates and one is wrong about whether he would be worthy of this place, after all, he is already suffering from dementia. I don't know if the same ones who were discussing it are still alive. Some may already be in the cemetery, but our ex-president Rüütel is still healthy and no dementia I saw and listened to him about a month ago I hadn't noticed. Maybe it turns out he's got a son in Russia. Really, don't you remember that huge interest? What I'm trying to say is, is this what it's called a public interest in rumours? All right, public interest. Then it began to be investigated that Rüütel was once a KGB worker because he was also high in the Soviet Union when some man was put in his seat. Someone told me that Rüütel was saying badly about this man, and that was discussed in ten articles. That's our media! He's been ordered to tell stories about a person, and that person's got the death penalty written out, they're gonna get killed, they're gonna be pounded to death. Do you remember how the Knight Negro was made? Is there an Internet portal where this page was not printed from a fictitious encyclopedia? A complete Fake News with Rüütel, the President of Estonia, and a portrait of some African President next to him. Everything was done to destroy the man, and nothing was said about the other, his competitor. I do not think that the public interest of society lies in the media being sold working to earn the customer's money and to destroy one person and make another person president. And I now have the question: if this overriding provision of public interest, as is the case here in this amendment, that the disclosure of personal data must not unduly undermine the rights of the data subject, would it have been in force at that time, would it have stopped our media? Wouldn't stop. And you know you wouldn't. If an order is made for any person, they'll kill him. On this issue, I am not afraid of anything, and I would also advise you to tell the truth, not to be here as Jesuits defending freedom of expression, the freedom of expression that we now have, which allows a person who has not received a judgment to be accused, photographed, to speak of him for years. And then, in a good case, somewhere, an excuse comes up in some kind of microtext. So if you defend this freedom of speech, you actually protect totalitarianism. The interests of the person are not protected in any way here; the interests of the owners of media sources are protected. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U297	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U298	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Because of my work, I have had to deal with personal data protection laws for decades. Looking at the past, I can say that progress has been enormous, and still in a sympathetic direction. I remember when the first laws on personal data protection caused so much confusion that, as a historian, the idea arose of studying forbidden history, at least human history, because there were many things that were prohibited by the laws on the protection of personal data at the time. And when we talked to the then Chancellor Eerik-Juhan Truuvälja, he scratched his head and said that the devil had gone bad, but we hope the best one hasn't dug, so maybe it's going well. It went well, because then there was simply no such peddlerry on different things in Estonia. Later, this law has been constantly improved, yet at some point it became clear that the Personal Data Protection Act is still not suitable for research: it is ignorant, it does not know these aspects. And in this situation, with the agreement of the Chancellor of Justice, the Data Protection Inspectorate and the National Archives' leadership, other solutions were made to the archival law. Although the dream was that one law could regulate one area in Estonia, it happened that several of them did. There's a lot to be said about violations, but maybe it's not that important. However, I would point out that the violations that were forgiven were at times very serious. One of the Estonian prosecutors even rewritten the case stories, forgetting to anonymous the names in the crime files required by the law. What are the benefits and mistakes of the draft law under consideration? First of all, of course, it is in a sense disproportionate. If you look at the explanatory memorandum to the original draft, it's a very large collection of reports. It is as if a large number of student work has been put together, where there is much talk about the laws on the protection of personal data in different countries, but of course not about this bill. The bill itself is hurried, there are traces of scissors and glue, but sometimes that happens. The Commission has looked at these things in a demanding and substantial way, and in general we must approve of what the Commission has done. I also welcome the fact that, as a large part of the decisions in the field of science are made by ethics committees, the Commission quickly agreed that a very large part of the personal data is stored in the National Archives. By the way, in the case of retrospective data, more than 80% of the enquiries go to the National Archives. There are also images of national databases, for example, etc. And to say it's a peripheral area, I guess it would be stupid. That was the case: the substance of my proposal and the final wording adopted by the Commission are literally identical in terms of constructiveness. However, I would have been happy to discuss a rather interesting matter. It specifically concerns...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U299	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U300	... current practice and practice in the archives of different countries, where the right to grant access to the personal data of their parents or certain persons is generally reserved for ascending or descending relatives. We found that it should be replaced by an heir point. It was even explained in the explanatory memorandum to make it quite difficult to understand who the descendant relatives are, even though the family law explains it very precisely. The humble relatives are children, grandchildren, and grandchildren. Exactly the same is very clearly formulated by ascendant relatives. On the other hand, the heir is not so clearly formulated. I can refer to § 39 of the Succession Act, which shows that there may be quite a large number of post-testament heirs in Estonia. Although the Commission said that those who are insignificant are legatees, that is not the case. Annak is something like a servitude in the Law of Property Act, or a right of use, in particular the regulator of debts and rights. I cannot go into law problems, but I would point out one aspect. According to the old wording, sensitive personal data or special personal data are those concerning the person, his or her origin, and heirs, if they are not children, may not be concerned with them. Let me give you a very simple example. The heir, the child, can for example give up the inheritance of his parents if the obligations associated with the inheritance exceed its value. And then the right to succession goes to a local government, for example, which has nothing to do with the secrets of the origin of the descending relatives of the person in question, his racial affiliation, hereditary diseases and everything else. However, it is vital for humble relatives. I was calmed down. I spoke to the National Archives, whose leaders said that they had already been comforted and said that we would do as we used to: you will have a separate law, implementing legislation already arrived, and you will still make your own corrections to the Archives Act. Estonia goes on with one run under the name of the Personal Data Protection Act, and next to it another run, which says that we trust the heir. It's a clearer term for economics than a 'dairy relative'. And the Commission found that the heir is also a terrible influence in terms of the protection of personal data, although international practice does not quite think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U301	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U302	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Yeah, maybe I wouldn't want to go over all the principles of succession in this remote control. In the proposal of a good colleague, Aadu, everything was understandable, but, quite simply, the logic behind the Commission is as follows: if the succession right in Estonia is governed by a certain logic in the succession law, then we will not create a new logic of the inheritance mechanism outside the succession right. But be that as it may. Now, if you come to this bill, you're gonna need this bill of your own. What is the problem with this bill? The General Data Protection Regulation, which has been adopted in the European Union and is directly applicable, is nothing new. It was accepted two years ago. And the direct applicability of this regulation also means that we have all received meters of letters in our mailboxes, which say that the GDPR regulation has entered into force and now please review your provisions. A bit strange about this bill is that two years, two years! It is known that 25 May 2018 will come. And still, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which should stand up for good lawmaking, comes here at the last second of the Chamber, actually at a new minute, and begins to talk about the fact that it is very urgent now that the law on the protection of personal data needs to be passed. At this speed, we forgot to include a simple parliamentary truth and principle so that stakeholders could give their opinion during the drafting process. Very often, for example, with amendments to the arms law, it has been heard that interest groups were also invited. We did not invite interest groups in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which in itself is a fiery pity: we did examine the proposals that were made, but we did not hear the reasons behind them. You can write things down, but oral is always better. So inclusion is what actually remained incomplete about this draft. The second problem, of course, is that we did not have any implementing acts. Yesterday, these implementing acts were handed over, and I am more than convinced that we will be forced to change the basic text that we currently have on the table once again in the course of implementing acts. And this is not good lawmaking. It would certainly have been a good thing if we had been able to process the basic text together with implementing legislation. By the way, there's still a chance. We have this opportunity if we cancel this second reading today, we'll take a break until autumn. Believe me, whether we are proceeding with this draft in the summer or after the summer will not make our position much better than the European Commission's view. If anyone wants to open infringement proceedings, there is a reason for this today and just as in the autumn. The fact that 25th of May has already been missed makes sense to everyone in the same way. There are still complaints about this draft. The problem is not voting through the positions of stakeholders as well as that we should look at the main text together with implementing legislation. As a result, we have no simpler proposal but to interrupt today's second reading. None of this is gonna happen by itself. Just as Marko said about implementing legislation, nothing bad will happen if we start again again in the autumn. Let's do these things at once, bring them to the big hall together, and then they'll be there in conjunction! Perhaps by then, we will also be able to solve the Aadu Black problem, whether or not the Archives Act and the Personal Data Protection Act will conflict with each other in any way. Perhaps we can also resolve the question of the heirs in the archives. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our proposal today is to interrupt the second reading and to resume this draft in the autumn with implementing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U303	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U304	Mr President of the sitting! I also speak well of legal problems. One has to do with the same word 'overweight'. There's a lot of stuff on the remote today. Plus, there was a rather energetic article in one of our daily newspapers today. Mart Raudsaar, who is the head of the journalist's professional organisation and is also the editor of the Riigikogu Journal, discussed the expression 'overweight' in the text of the law as an attack on press freedom already taking place or at least a potentially latent situation in which freedom of the press may be reduced in Estonia. In my opinion, there is no reason to think so unless other, third-fourth reasons are found. Originally, I assumed that the word "overweight" could come from the original text of the corresponding document. I just went back there in the corner to talk to our Counselor of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Kristo Varend, about what he thinks about it. And he showed me that, at least in this original document that was written into Estonian, there is no such word in the text of the directive, although in the exact same wording it exists in the current Personal Data Protection Act. So if that word does not threaten the freedom of the press now, we have no reason to believe that it will threaten the freedom of the press in the future if that word comes back into law. I didn't have time to investigate right now, but I think it's actually even earlier. If I see correctly from this little letter, the current Personal Data Protection Act has been adopted in 2007. I'm sure there were other options ahead of it. Daimar Liiv, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee at the time of the VIII Riigikogu, was, in my opinion, the man who probably drafted and processed the first version of the law. I suppose the word "overweight" is already in there, but I can't prove it right now, I didn't have time to look into it. And is that what you need to do? Rather, the question is whether the word has any meaning or could be removed calmly. I think it has meaning, but first it must be understood relatively narrowly, legally. The word 'public' is certainly not here with this meaning, as it is in the Estonian common language, which is the opposite of'secret'. It has, after all, originally come from the Latin public, as has the res publica, which means common or public matter. This is a public interest, an interest in public life. 'Huvi' is certainly not here with this meaning, as it is in the Estonian common language, where it means some kind of curiosity. No, it means some kind of justification that there is a need for it in social life, that's what I understand here by the word 'interest'. Now, what does "overweight" mean? I imagine that the basic meaning of this word is this: it is meant here as a journalist, editor, finally as the editor-in-chief or as a court of law in a situation where the interests of the two parties are in front of him for consideration. One party says that this material should not be published, and the other says that it should be published. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U305	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U306	And then he has to consider them. 'Overweight' in this context means, in my opinion, that there must be an interest in which it is thought to be greater. That's the meaning of this "overweight." There is not such a line that there is no interest, little interest, much interest, compelling interest and ultimately overwhelming interest. This is a hint that interests must be considered: one may be of private interest, the other may be of public interest, but just as it may be two competitions of public interest. That's the way it should be. I don't know if it's possible this thing will calm down. As long as that word has been obtained to live in the law, it can also continue to live calmly. If there is fear that it will cause some kind of confusion, then it can probably be pulled off at nothing. I will now go to the second point: this is the subject raised by Aadu Black. Dear People's Representative Black! There are some things that are not clearly written out in our laws. One of these is, for example, the question of who bears copyright after the death of a person, if there are many heirs, and if it has not been decided that one heir is certainly the one who bears them, and the others do not. We now generally assume that in such a case, the heirs choose from among themselves a representative or make some other arrangement, but there is nothing in the law about it. Now the same question, which of the potential heirs has the right to grant permission, for example, to access the archives. There's probably an internship here. I don't know the practice, there might be trouble. But legally, in my opinion, this is a matter of cultural agreement; we cannot always say exactly what we are saying. In my opinion, the law now states that it is not possible to get access to archives during a certain period of time and to take any items from them without authorisation. I see Aadu Black is spreading his hand. So maybe I said something wrong. Now, if I said something wrong, I could be corrected on my own or on this remote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U307	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U308	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief: everyone is tired, the evening is here. There are several aspects to this matter. One aspect that, personally and frankly, irritates my groupmates is this kind of holopic rush: the masters gave out loudly, we will do it quickly and quickly; the order must be fulfilled. It is not respectable, it is not worthy of an independent national parliament, all the more so because we do not have implementing acts. Here another example of bad legislation may come out that we are going to accept this matter and only then will we be adopting implementing acts. Is the Cohabitation Act still not enough? Doesn't that teach a lesson? Let's not do bad lawmaking! Let's not rush, let's not follow the orders and orders of our masters! More dignity, more confidence, more independence! That is what we are here for, and that is why we have received a mandate. That's all I have to say. We support the Reform Party initiative and hope that others will also feel confident and self-confidence as members of the independent national parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U309	Marko Pomerants, the line or the line? [[A voice from the hall.]] Okay, two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U310	Just a few remarks. With regard to additional proposals by stakeholders, they have all been discussed in substance. It is true that the interest groups or their representatives were not invited by the Commission. But in the Commission's protocol, all this is reflected in how we dealt with all these problems. Part of their proposals became proposals of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And last comment: we are the masters, not the servants, in this Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U311	Krista Aru, speech from the remote, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U312	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I will announce briefly that we will join the Reform Party and the Estonian Conservative People's Party in proposing to interrupt this second reading. And the reason is very simple. I am not concerned either with the public interest or with the fear that this bill will restrict freedom of the press. It is, after all, that all the stakeholders involved, whose opinions have been discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and reflected in the minutes, still have a number of issues that need clarification. We have no need to rush: May 25 is already over. Let us discuss and talk to stakeholders once more. In the opinion of several interest groups, including cities and municipalities, there is, after all, the fear that this bill will create more bureaucracy and additional obligations for which they may not yet be able. This is a complaint that can probably be taken down during a peaceful debate. Why are we creating additional tensions in society again? Besides, in a situation where we know that the press is now amplifying it through the representative body of the Estonian Newspaper Association. We also support a number of very sensible proposals by Professor Aadu Must, especially those concerning the processing of archive data, including the subject referred to in his own question. So we have a request and a suggestion to think again, to discuss this bill, despite the fact that things are getting better. If we use our wisdom and knowledge, it will certainly improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U313	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Fourteen amendments to the draft law have been tabled, and we will examine them together. The first is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the decision of the commission: to take full account. The second is from Aadu Musta, member of the Riigikogu, the decision of the commission: consider the substance. The third amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to be fully taken into account. The fourth is from Aadu Musta, a member of the Riigikogu, and the decision of the commission: leave it to account. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U314	As a proposer of the amendment, I ask for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U315	That right exists. Honourable Riigikogu, just in case, I would remind you that we are processing bill 616. We will vote on Amendment 4, tabled by Mr Black. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Now, let's wait for your decision. Please vote! The proposal was supported by 33 MPs, against 37. The Black proposal of Aadu was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. Aadu Must, member of the Riigikogu, decision of the commission, has been submitted by Sixth Riigikogu: disregard. Amendment 7, lead committee: take full account. The eighth and ninth amendments are the same. The 10th amendment is also from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the decision of the commission: take full account. This is also the case with Amendments 11, 12, 13 and 14. We have all examined 14 amendments. The proposal of the commission is to stop the second reading of draft 616, but the Group of the Estonian Reform Party of the Riigikogu proposes to interrupt the second reading of draft Act 616. To this end, we need to vote again. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? Thank you. I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of Bill 616 of the Personal Data Protection Act. Please take a stand and vote! 37 members were in favour of the proposal and 41 were against, with no abstentions. The proposal of the Estonian Reform Party Group was not supported. Thus, the second reading of draft 616 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U316	The next item is the second reading of draft law 617 on the amendment of the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Mart Nuti, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U317	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U318	Let me remind you that the time for negotiations will certainly come, only a little later. Mr. Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U319	Thank you. Draft Act 617 was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at two meetings. The first took place on 29 May and the second on 4 June. The focus of these meetings was in a slightly different place. On 29 May, there was a substantive debate on the draft and representatives of stakeholders were invited. The meeting of 4 June focused only on the proposed amendments and took a position on them. I come specifically to the debate. On 29 May, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister for the Interior, Mr Kristen Kanarik, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Ruth Annus, and Ms Eva Lillemäe, adviser to the same department, participated in the meeting, and representatives of entrepreneurs were also represented, as entrepreneurs also expressed their views on this draft...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U320	Honourable waitress! I can see clearly from the chair of the President that some members of the Riigikogu would like to listen to you. Let's give them a chance. Mr. Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U321	Thank you. ... Advisor to the Estonian Employers' Confederation Andres Kask and Chairman of the Board of Standard AS Enn Veskimägi. Two members of the Riigikogu who had tabled amendments to this draft had also been invited to the debate; these were members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Marrand and Hardi Volmer. The debate on 29 May focused on the following issues: The Minister of the Interior presented the amendments tabled by the Ministry of the Interior. He suggested that they be presented in the table as proposals by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. These proposals concerned the following issues: I will read by subject, not by amendment, but these were reflected in the amendments. First, it is proposed to introduce an information obligation to prevent illegal employment when it comes to working in Estonia in the case of the free movement of services. It is desirable to provide for sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the notification obligation. This concerns, in particular, temporary agency labour. These sanctions are first of all fines for the use of illegal labour. These fines have still existed, but the proposal is to increase their rate from EUR 3200 to EUR 32000. The aim is to grant the Police and Border Guard Board the right to prohibit the economic activities of a company if illegal labour is used. It also provides for the obligation to provide the Labour Inspectorate with information on the posted worker. In addition, there is a proposal that it was outside this package to abolish the time limit for the work of a journalist accredited by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. During the debate, a number of issues were raised which had not been raised directly by the initiators, but were discussed at the meeting of the Commission. In some ways, they were also in agreement with the amendments tabled by the members of the Riigikogu. I will highlight some of the most important, central issues. The first question, which option would be more appropriate, is whether external workers should be guided by average wage levels or sector-specific wage levels. There were supporters on both sides, I can tell you. The second question whether these pay criteria are justified in this case or whether they should be different. There was also the question of what should be the topics of political choice in the country and what should be the themes aimed at making better use of the labour market. At the same time, it can be said that these issues are intertwined, and they cannot be considered separately in any way. I also touch here on these two proposals, which also gave rise to a debate and which had been submitted by members of the Riigikogu. I say in advance that there are 12 amendments in the table, three of which have been tabled by members of the Riigikogu and the other amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the basis of proposals made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Two proposals were submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Mr Marrandi, on two issues. One of the proposals is the sector-specific wage arrangements for external labour, there is an arrangement for average wages, Mr Marrand's proposal is sector-specific. The second proposal is to extend short-term employment to two years, which has now been extended from nine months to one year. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior explained that the current European directive does not allow it to do so by itself, which would require the introduction of a new species of residence permit, but it is a matter of political decision; it is certainly possible to do so. This is also the case with the first proposal. The question here cannot be based on what is good and what is bad or what is right and what is wrong, is that it is the question of our decision whether we make one choice or whether we make another choice. At the same time, the question was raised where the greatest need for migrant labour is now in Estonian society. The response of the undertakings was that, in particular, in the construction, processing and also in the service sector. This shows that, in addition to the huge need for a skilled workforce, there is, in fact, a huge need for a low-skilled workforce. One amendment was tabled by Mr Volmer, member of the Riigikogu. His proposal was to bring the creative leaders and creative staff of the performing institutions out of the limit and, more broadly, the whole creative field. We've been listening to the State Department's figures on how many people are affected. Last year, it had affected 11 workers, so it is a small figure in itself. It is probably not a particular problem that they do not enter Estonia within the limits, but this topic definitely deserves to be discussed. As the question was raised as to whether there could still be some groups under this provision, such as those related to sport, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore concluded that, since amendments to the Aliens Act would certainly have to be discussed, it would be more appropriate to work on this area as a whole and return to it. This is also one of the reasons why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support this proposal. In short, the message of the entrepreneurs was the following in particular. First of all, the shortage of specialists in Estonia is the biggest brake on development in the current situation. Secondly, in the opinion of the undertakings, it is not reasonable to maintain the limit, it would be reasonable to abolish it, and it would also be reasonable to abolish the wage criterion. Of course, not everyone thinks so, but it is understandable that entrepreneurs came up with such a proposal. On the first day of the debate, a procedural decision was also taken, concerning the date of the debate. This procedural decision was as follows: put the second-reading debate on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 6 June. There were 8 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this decision, i.e. this decision was taken by consensus. I will also read who these members of the Riigikogu were. These were members of the Riigikogu Pevkur, Madison, Ossinovski, Luik, Pomerants, Nutt, Terik... I'm sorry! However, there was one abstention, Adams. Let us move on to the debate on 4 June. As I emphasised, on 4 June the amendments that had been tabled were examined, and more specifically, the amendments were decided, as the debate on the amendments had partly taken place at the meeting on 29 May. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and Eva Lillemäe, Adviser to the same department, were invited to this discussion. Three amendments that had come from members of the Riigikogu were examined, and then the remaining amendments were formalised, as I said, in total 12 of the proposals proposed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the form of proposals from the Constitutional Committee, so that they are listed in the table as proposals from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I have already mentioned the content of the proposals, I will not repeat that. I will only say so much that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to put forward the proposals proposed by the Ministry of the Interior and that is why they have been tabled as proposals by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For the reasons already mentioned, the two proposals of the member of the Riigikogu Marrand and the proposal of the member of the Riigikogu Volmer were not supported. It could be said so much that, as I mentioned, we will certainly return to the proposal of the member of the Riigikogu Volmer, because it can be said that there was a consensus within the Commission that this issue should be resolved. But now the question of whether to be based on average wages or sector-specific wages. This is a question of political choice, as I said, and the political choice was to stick to the option that the Government of the Republic has now presented to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In addition, a number of stakeholders had also submitted an opinion. They are available in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, if anyone is more specifically interested. I'm not going to read them because some of them are pretty tall. I'll just mention them. The opinion was presented by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Service Economy, employers, Enterprise Estonia, Archimedes, Jaak Valge, who represents the centre of demography in Estonia of Tallinn University (he is its leading researcher), and the Association of Hospitals. To sum up, I would stress that companies supported the proposed amendments; they considered that these changes could concern a wider area, which was also reflected in the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was to stick to the solution proposed by the government. So it can be said that perhaps not all of the proposals of the representatives of economic operators entered this bill, but there is the fundamental support of economic operators for what is in the draft. Jaak White's proposal was in some ways in the opposite direction, his proposal was not to limit the average salary but to establish the criterion of 1.5 average wages. He found that this would protect the Estonian labour market better. Other procedural decisions were also taken at the meeting on 4 June. Firstly, it was decided to propose the end of the second reading of the draft. It was supported by 6 and 2 members of the Riigikogu with 1 abstention. The members of the Riigikogu were Helmut Hallemaa, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb and Tiit Terik, opposed Hanno Pevkur and Jaak Madison and abstained from Jüri Adams. Second decision: to send the draft to third reading when the second reading is completed and this third reading could take place on 13 June inclusive. There were 5 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. By Helmut Hallemaa, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb and Tiit Terik, Jaak Madison opposed and Jüri Adams abstained. The third decision was to propose a final vote at third reading, with 5 in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. By Helmut Hallemaa, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb and Tiit Terik, Jaak Madison opposed and Jüri Adams abstained. Therefore, the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that the second reading should be completed today after the revision of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U322	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate either. There are 12 amendments to the draft. Let's go through them together. The first amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision is to take full account of it. The second amendment is from a member of the Riigikogu, Jaanus Marrand, the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Please, Jaanus Marrand!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U323	Thank you! I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U324	That's what we do. Just in case, I would remind those who came from farther away that the draft law 617 is in progress and a second reading is underway. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] We will vote on the second amendment made by Riigikogu member Jaanus Marrand, the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Now we have to decide how to decide. There were 16 votes in favour and 41 against, with no abstentions. Jaanus Marrand's proposal was not supported. The third amendment has also been tabled by Jaanus Marrand and the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U325	I am asking for this motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U326	Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? Thank you! I shall put to the vote Amendment 3 made by Riigikogu member Jaanus Marrand, the decision of the commission is to disregard. Please take a stand and vote. There were 17 votes in favour and 41 against, with no abstentions. Jaanus Marrand's proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by Mr Hardi Volmer, member of the Riigikogu, and the decision of the commission is not taken into account. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The same decision has also been taken on the sixth and seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, 11th and 12th amendments tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The decision of the lead committee, which is also the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is to take full account. We have examined all the amendments, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 617. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U327	The 20th item is the first reading of draft Act 625 on the ratification of the Agreement on Mutual Assistance and Cooperation in the Prevention of, Preparedness and Response to Emergencys by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia. How? I'm sorry, we're going to be more specific. We will specify the day on which this item is to be dealt with. Got it. The President of the sitting is clear on the matter. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] First reading of the Gambling Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act Amendment Act 632 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please waitress! Sorry about the wrong pages!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U328	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Nice jokes for you guys this afternoon, but luckily, I got off the remote too. The draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic comes to the first reading. With this draft, we want to do another piece of state reform. The parties involved have been talking for years about the need to reform the system of support provided through the Gambling Tax Council. The main weaknesses of the current system are, according to the parties concerned, the lack of transparency and the weak communication of financing decisions with the strategic objectives of the sectoral policy. Similarly, annual contracts do not provide sufficient assurance as to the quality and continuity of the services and activities financed, from the point of view of the donor, the service provider or the recipient. These problems have also been referred to in their analysis of the directions and views of the distribution of gambling tax by the Estonian Association of Non-profit Associations and Foundations, which was also involved in the preparation of the draft. Moreover, the existing system has created problems in terms of granting State aid. The National Audit Office has also pointed out shortcomings in the current system, considering it ineffective, among other things. The aim of the draft is to amend the system so as to ensure that public funds from gambling tax are used in a transparent and better manner in line with long-term sectoral policy objectives and to ensure that these activities are carried out in accordance with the law and state aid rules. To this end, the division of these funds will be excluded from the system of distribution, the Gambling Tax Council, which consists of most members of the Riigikogu, and the tasks related to the distribution of funds will be transferred, together with budgetary resources, to the ministries of the sector, which have largely carried out the same tasks so far. This will allow ministries to better channel resources towards financing the activities needed to achieve the sectoral policy objectives, and ministries will have the opportunity to enter into long-term agreements with strategic partners, which will ensure greater long-term certainty for both those implementing the activities and the ministries that the implementation of the activities is sustainable and takes place in a high quality manner. This means that ministries can establish longer-term partnerships, but also finance new ideas and initiatives. It is also possible to reduce the duplication of grants in this way. The implementation of the bill is designed to ensure that the 37.4% of the planned revenues of gambling tax distributed through the Gambling Tax Board so far will be distributed in overall future proportions through the budgets of the ministries currently involved in the distribution of the same funds. 0.2% of the gambling tax currently required to serve the Gambling Tax Council is planned to be used in the future for anti-fraud activities related to sporting competitions. The amendment deties the permanent funding of the Estonian Red Cross. The Ministry of Social Affairs remains responsible for planning the funds and cooperation with the Estonian Red Cross will certainly continue. The aim of the Ministry of Social Affairs is to conclude a strategic partnership agreement with the organisation for a period of three to five years so that the necessary activities are financed. As a major change, 1% of the money from the gambling tax would go to combat the consequences of gambling addiction. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! To sum up, the aim of this draft is to make better, more transparent and less bureaucratic use of gambling tax instruments. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U329	The round of questions will be opened by Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U330	No, I won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U331	I'm shutting down Igor Gräzin's opportunity to ask a question. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U332	Good manager! Good waitress! We discussed this draft in the group, and I had the impression that this was bullshit. I'm asking now if you can explain to us why you've come out with this shit and who's behind it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U333	Thank you. I guess everyone treats this bill the way they do, I don't get to say anything here, I don't have anything to say to anyone, but I don't think it's bullshit. In fact, I referred to these problems in my speech. If we share public money, support for these activities must be in line with sectoral policies, their priorities. At present, it is not possible to establish a longer-term partnership and provide certainty. Every year, applicants have to come back to apply for money. However, for many who do not get a positive decision from the Gambling Tax Council, it is unclear why a negative response came. This is part of the transparency, so why did the negative answer come? Someone has the feeling that maybe money should be allocated, the project is good, but it may not actually match the long-term objectives in this area. That's all for short.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U334	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U335	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to this bill contains a great many vague and impersonal assessments. Someone feels that the distribution of money has been opaque, incomprehensible and unreasonable. I found a sentence in the explanatory memorandum that actually opens up the idea of this bill: 'So decisions are often not in line with the proposals made by the ministries. ' Don't you think it is sometimes good in a small country like Estonia that the Council, which has no direct link with the ministries, evaluates and looks at projects? This could contribute to small projects and new developments in several areas if not all are in the hands of the Ministry alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U336	Thank you. Depends on where you look. As I said, happy is, yes, the beneficiaries who have managed to get support from the Gambling Tax Board thanks to contacts on some projects that might otherwise not have received support. Well, I'm talking bad too. There are certainly good projects that have received support. But most of the preparatory work has been done by ministries and there have also come those proposals, which are broadly, largely accepted. After all, the Kulka Council is also made up of experts. Why, then, do we say that their visions do not fit or are worse than those of the members of the Gambling Tax Board, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U337	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U338	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I got two things in my ear. First, that part of the money is going to go to fight sports fraud, and the second was gambling addiction. Will you be brief about how the use of gambling tax money changes these situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U339	Thank you. Gambling addiction treatment and counselling receive 1% more money. The idea is that, given the origins of the instruments deriving from the gambling tax, it seems justified that some part of the tax collection could be directed towards projects related to the prevention and treatment of gambling addiction. It is also desirable to find a strategic partner with whom a contract can be made for 3 to 5 years. It's the Ministry of Social Affairs, he's working on it. The second issue is the fight against the manipulation of sports competitions, which is a whole new issue. We know that betting, when athletes, coaches and judges contribute to a previously agreed outcome, is quite a problem in sport. The fight against such manipulation, I think, is welcome in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U340	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U341	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is about this so-called logic. It's okay if the money from the gambling tax goes to the treatment of ludomania, or gambling addiction. That's normal. But who are causing the manipulation of sports competitions, and why is it financed by a gambling tax? Would it not be wise to put in charge those sports groups or clubs involved in manipulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U342	Thank you. I guess they're in charge right now, but I don't think we can ignore this problem in order to maintain a wider image of pure sport. I think it's the right step to direct the small percentage that went before to serve the Gambling Tax Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U343	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U344	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! It is quite strange to hear you say that, thanks to contacts, financial resources are being allocated, and at the same time you are talking about serving the Council. The council works for free, without any expense. Are there any specific reproaches? The two Council configurations have already worked in such a way that there will be no vote. There are representatives of different political parties, coalitions and oppositions, they try to solve problems, discuss and not vote. In fact, the form of cooperation has also been that ministries prepare proposals based on their priorities, which are discussed and protected. I think it is far more democratic than if these proposals were made in the silence of the ministries, and so they would go to funding. I believe that it would also be easier for ministers to work without the Social Committee of the Riigikogu or any committee, because it seems that committees may interfere. Please explain this a little bit!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U345	Yes, thank you! I gave an example. If we say that this is happening in ministries between 'walls' and nobody knows anything, then the public and the association of non-profit organisations and foundations that have referred to this problem can see it the other way around. Absolute truth is hard to find here. But, in the big picture, it really is a duplication. These measures and criteria for allocating money have been developed by the ministries of industry. Of course, you can make them better. After all, the National Audit Office has actually referred to these concerns, which we talked about earlier, that the distribution of money is not transparent enough in the Gambling Tax Council. I have the information that although the members of the council did not receive any remuneration, there were still some expenses, even for the staff serving them. On the exact amount, I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U346	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U347	Good manager! Good minister! I come back to my first question. We really discussed it, and I didn't understand it either. Although the explanatory memorandum states that it increases transparency, I had the impression that it was in the interests of someone's family, and the opposite is behind it, some trends that I would not like to see. I'm asking who the family is back there, or why that's my word for bullshit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U348	Thank you. I really don't know what to say about this family. But once again, the Estonian Non-profit Associations and Foundations Association, who have helped to draft this draft, is largely made up of beneficiaries who have concerns and who have found that the system is not transparent enough or based on the objective of the sector. If there are objectives, then it can really happen that the Gambling Tax Council makes collective decisions and certainly this money goes to the right place, but there is always money less than there are people who want. It is in the view of those who are missing that these decisions are not as justified as if all the instances and calls for proposals had been met and these requests had been sufficiently substantiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U349	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U350	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I also asked the Minister for Education and Science for the same question in Question Time and he suggested that I contact you. I am asking the example of funding young people's activities. Youth associations are supported by approximately half a million euros on the basis of two-year contracts with the Ministry of the Interior. From the Gambling Tax Board, young people are currently able to raise some EUR 400000, but if this Council and this fund disappear, then somehow this amount will not be added to the Ministry of the Interior, for example. So 1 plus 1 is not 2, but 1 plus 1 is 1. Where, for example, does this youth funding money move from the Gambling Tax Board, why does it not remain for young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U351	Thank you. Currently, a large proportion of youth projects receive support from the Ministry of Education and that percentage remains for them. I don't know what kind of money they think's gonna go away. But cooperation between youth organisations and the Ministry of Education is certainly important. I have also realised that the Ministry of Education is happy to cooperate with them, listen to their concerns and try to find solutions for funding. In any case, there is no reduction in money in the Ministry of Education in these tables.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U352	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U353	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm the chairman of the Gambling Tax Board right now. Looks like you guys aren't really at home in the forms of this job, you don't know how it works. We're getting tables two days early, and the meeting lasts 45 minutes. There's no cost if there's no such thing. We are there free of our own, or means our working hours, for which we are paid in the Riigikogu. Within this same working time and for this salary, we participate in the Gambling Tax Council. You want to centralize this stuff, and you want to avoid uncomfortable questions. Why so little, why so much there? Then the chancellors will have to answer us. Who are we to get the chancellors to answer us? I mean, the fact that you want to increase transparency is wrong. Transparency will be completely reduced because no one will look at these tables after the Chancellors and the Ministry. That's point one. Second, towards your soul, as they say. Your great little sailing alliances wouldn't have gotten a cent if it wasn't for the Gambling Tax Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U354	Thank you. I think that both culture and sport are saying a big thank you for the fact that the Gambling Tax Council receives some 27 million a year and it is distributed according to the agreements. Sport gets its share, culture gets its share, young people get their share. This is very grateful and these proportions remain largely the way they are among the beneficiaries. There's nothing I can say about that. I also said before that the members of the Riigikogu who participate in the Gambling Tax Council will not receive any remuneration themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U355	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U356	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I repeat the beginning of my previous question. So many uncovered estimates of the work of the Gambling Tax Council and its distribution of grants, when it is in this explanatory memorandum, I have never read before. I appreciate that this is not very correct. I myself have nothing to do with this council. I now ask once again: what is the purpose of this restructuring if all smaller, not so competitive, non-profit organisations and foundations have just praised the flexibility and operationality of receiving subsidies? So what's gonna get better now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U357	Thank you. Those who have received money have certainly praised them, and those who have not. Well, he's always like that. He who gets, he's happy, and he who doesn't, he's not happy. This requires transparency, which has also been brought to the attention of the association of non-profit organisations and foundations. The National Audit Office has also pointed out that it can be made even better and that it can take out a duplicate link. But once again, the objectives of this change are more transparent and targeted distribution of public money and greater certainty for the beneficiaries, because the contracts are long-term. As I said before, it is now possible to make decisions for one year. Every year we have to apply again and the uncertainty as to whether or not the next time we receive money is not sustainable in the long term. Certainly, money distributors and recipients cannot be as satisfied with its outcome and quality as they would be in a different situation. One of the objectives of this draft is the elimination of the legal vacuum linked to State aid and the organisation and modernisation of the distribution of funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U358	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U359	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am still asking about the area of culture, which I also wanted to learn more about in the Commission. In fact, the impact of these state measures has not been analysed in Estonia. This was last investigated by the Conjuncture Institute in 2012. I'm asking what the Gambling Tax Council has done wrong. You said that in the ministry, this money will now be channelled more accurately, into the right areas, according to the right criteria. Let's take the cultural field. The Gambling Tax Board is based on the promotion of Estonian culture, the promotion of Estonian authors, for example, the promotion of local musical life. But what have they done wrong, and what will be done better and better in the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U360	Thank you. It doesn't change much about this, all the beneficiaries will be left behind in the big way, all these proportions will remain. Just the system will become more transparent, the duplication will disappear, the long-term contracts will be obtained, everything I said before.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U361	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U362	First of all, thank you for your clarification. Indeed, if youth organisations have long-term contracts, they are not related to the Ministry of the Interior, as I said, but to the Ministry of Education and Research. But I have a feeling you didn't understand my emphasis. The Gambling Tax Council with its flexibility also allows young people to realise projects; ministries do not have this flexibility. You here constantly produce that, as a result of centralisation, transparency will increase. On the contrary, the result of centralisation is that the lack of transparency is increasing. Is there an organisation or a lobby that supports this bill besides the EMSL? Or have you submitted this bill on behalf of only one interest group?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U363	Thank you. Let's take the sport. I haven't heard anyone mind. Let's take culture more widely. I don't know there's a lot of complaining. I do not think that it is worth underestimating the association of non-profit organisations and foundations, which largely represents the players in this field, which is mentioned. Their proposals have been taken into account, as well as the proposals of the National Audit Office. So I dare say it's still a good bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U364	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U365	Thank you. Mr Secretary of Finance. You offer an option where one quarter, 25% of the money that is devoted to cultural capital, I mean § 2, you place it at the disposal of regional expert groups. After the administrative reform, as we know, the counties went down in history. How will these expert groups work, who will put them together in the first place, and on what basis will they work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U366	Thank you. As far as specific programmes are concerned: how this money is distributed, each ministry ensures flexibility so that the situation of partners improves rather than deteriorates.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U367	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U368	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You've made one factual mistake before, I mean, those who don't get the money aren't calling you names, but they're calling the Gambling Council, that's why they didn't get the money. They're gonna ask us and call us why they didn't get the money. So in that sense, there was a mistake. We also have no administrative costs. But I ask you one thing: please tell me, who will benefit from what you are proposing to us now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U369	All of Estonia, I think. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U370	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U371	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I hope I can ask now. I'm interested in numbers as a constructivist. I ask you this: how many percent of non-profit organisations and foundations are represented by a union of non-profit organisations and foundations? The other part of the question is this: how many percent of the work of the Gambling Tax Board has gone to those non-profit organisations and foundations that are not members of this association?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U372	Thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot say the specific percentages, but I have been told that the association of non-profit organisations and foundations is still a very significant organisation that represents these associations on a large scale. Percent and on the money side, I owe you an answer, but I can find out the data and send it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U373	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U374	First of all, Minister, I congratulate you on your courage. I know that at least four governments have tried to bring a similar bill here, but they didn't dare. From these questions, you'll understand why. In fact, the main thing is that gambling tax was created in Estonia in order to support beautiful events by taxing this sin. The most important thing is that this fortress exists. This reaction here has to do with the fact that there's no place to ask for money on the days of the sissy-tate that got the small sums. And where is the certainty that ministers will not cover their deficits through a gambling tax, for which they will not make money when negotiating the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U375	Thank you. I have not even been able to think this way that ministers will cover their deficits through it. After all, it is very clear in percentage terms which areas this money is going to go to. Can you imagine that culture or sport will not have the percentage that has been agreed upon? I don't think it's real in our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U376	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U377	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I thank the author of the previous question, but there was no correct or precise answer to this question, not even an expert answer. However, my question is about financing regional investments. This is the text in the explanatory memorandum: 'The conditions for financing regional investments are too detailed in the law. In drawing up the draft, it is necessary to analyse what such detail is justified for all areas of government. ' I mean, there's no analysis at all. Please explain where and how the analysis is carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U378	Thank you. The distribution of regional subsidies is becoming more general, it is currently too written down by law. It is a desire to put these subsidies on the same footing as other regional development programmes in the country. The aim is not to change the possibilities of supporting the current target group, but to increase regional flexibility and improve the use of resources. The amendment makes it possible to regulate the use of funds allocated to regional investment in the same way as other national-funded regional development programmes. This means that the details will be set out in a ministerial decree.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U379	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U380	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Your answers do not in some cases inspire much confidence in what you say. You assume that this is a useful draft for Estonia, you answer that you have been told that the association of non-profit organisations and foundations is a considerable organisation. Whoever has said and what your own views are, it will remain open. The most important question, however, is why this money is being distributed to the executive. Is there no such sense that the already rampant centre of executive power in Estonia can be boosted by this? Have you considered or why such a solution has not been proposed to combine it with another fund of the Council, or that there could be some sort of independent money-sharing mechanism, outside the direct control of the executive?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U381	Thank you. I would not like to say in any way today that the money allocated to cultural capital is somehow distributed in the darkness of the Cabinets and these decisions are not transparent, or that there is no clear system and transparency in the payment of money through the Olympic Committee for the preparations for the Olympic projects in the Ministry of Culture. I have been convinced for years, and I am still convinced that it is not quite right that there is a duplicate link between the Gambling Tax Council and the Gambling Tax Council. There is such a taste of political money, although it may not be. But at the same time, if we look honestly in the mirror, it is sometimes that someone supports perhaps more of their own than the far-reaching strategic goals in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U382	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U383	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. I am developing the same subject, the subject of civil society expertise. In fact, I recognise the Association of Estonian Non-profit Associations and Foundations, a very strong organisation. But that's what I'm asking. There are over 20000 organisations in Estonia, there are very different collections of cooperation and there is also a working group on the application of the concept of the development of Estonian civil society. Why has this not been discussed with these collections, or is it still planned to deal with them? EMSL may not have received so much money from gambling tax, but it is one of the main public partners in a large number of areas of civil society; it is a funded cooperation partner.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U384	Thank you. I believe that everyone who has wanted to contribute has had this opportunity. Even if they have not been sent a direct invitation to please express your opinion, it is not a draft made in silence in an office that no one would have known about. It has been discussed for a long time, it has repeatedly been a desire to bring it to this Chamber of the Riigikogu, but for various reasons it has not been brought here. I do understand that those who have wanted to have a say in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U385	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U386	Thank you. I'm gonna ask my second question and I'm gonna ask it straight. Don't take it as malicious, but I remember yesterday the words of the esteemed professor Rein Taagepera, the course and principles of his presentation. My question is this: why does the executive authority in power today, the government of the Republic of Estonia, not trust the representatives of the legislative power, the members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U387	Thank you. I dare say he does. Ministers' employer is the Riigikogu and the aim is to make the distribution of money more transparent. I've explained the other reasons enough. Surely this is not a matter of distrust.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U388	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U389	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is somewhat strange that only a day ago we discussed the reform of the state in this Chamber and the participants were much less than now in the debate on this draft. I think there will soon be more speeches today. But as they say, the devil is in the details. I am also a member of this council. I have never felt harassed or exhausted by someone calling me names because he has not received the money, as the chairman of the committee dared to say. It is true that there have been individuals who have approached and asked for explanations as to why this decision has been made. I wish you the strength of your work, and I think this is the right thing to do. The Estonian Parliament should not hold on to such a thing with ten nails.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U390	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U391	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! The presentation of the commission will be made by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U392	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its regular meeting on 29 May. The minister made an introduction, which sounded like a presentation in this hall. After a debate, a total of six questions were asked. Four of them were related to the Estonian Red Cross. There was an interest that led to the need to change the financing scheme and how it would continue to exist because it has 18 departments, they have rented rooms, and even though there are small wages, but there are people on the payroll, and whether this change is not contrary to our international obligations. In fact, it's the only case I know if the state is securing some kind of NGO's activities. It was necessary to conclude an agreement in 1993 or 1994 and then we were extremely grateful to the Red Cross that he handed his hand to the young Republic of Estonia. There were a few other questions related to the same issues that were asked about: youth projects, sports projects, and where to go with them. More or less the same answers were given. Procedural decisions were then taken: to send the draft to the Chamber today, 6 June, to close the first reading, to appoint the chairman on behalf of the Commission as co-rapporteur, and the deadline for submitting amendments is 20 June at 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U393	Igor Kravtšenko, question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U394	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Minister repeatedly stated in his presentation that the current system was not transparent enough. Here I ask you how you think this system could be made more transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U395	Thank you for your question. There are five or six people in this hall who are either members of the Gambling Tax Council now or have been there before, but not everyone knows how this work is happening there. That's why I'm explaining how these stories really are. As President of the Council Märt said here in the meantime, usually two days before the committee meeting, tables are sent to us. One column of the table contains the project and the person who deals with it, some NPO, then the name of the project, then the content of the project and then the Ministry's assessment. On the basis of this assessment, projects are allegedly selected that affect a maximum number of people and produce the highest possible result in this sample. The selection shall be made within the framework of the amount allocated to the Ministry for that month. It's a quarterly sum, a little bit can be transferred from one month to another, but it's pretty much the same amount. Then you will have, for example, 20 projects in front of you, six of which will receive support. You're looking at the difference. We have known this mechanism for increasing transparency for years. Very simply. Seven years ago, I became chairman of a special state budget control committee, and then I got nervous that our work was going on in the back room. Sometimes we heard sensational news from the National Audit Office, absolutely amazing reports, surprising data, but none of them said anything about them, although of course the National Audit Office always introduces them, makes briefings and they are also available on their site. I started doing this thing so, you guys, we're going to make the sessions public, we're going to conduct them in such a way that after the National Audit Office has done its introduction, the discussion takes place in a place where there is a camera, and then you can watch the broadcast on the Internet. The only thing that is needed to increase transparency is to move from room 240 to room 333, for example, where there is a camera. And at a certain time, once every month. When the camera works, they usually start to talk for a while, they start to look carefully at the materials, and then they probably don't last 30 or 40 minutes, they start to last two hours and give God enough time, but then everything is completely transparent. Greater transparency cannot simply be invented. If you start to believe that the fact that the Gambling Tax Council no longer deals with this matter increases transparency, then the question arises as to how. The top layer, where there is actually a possibility of public control, will be taken out because the voter can call me, Märdi or Helmen. He can get me, he can ask me. I want to see him talk to the Ministry in this normal tone! So I fully agree with those who have expressed doubts. I don't remember who said it, but a lot of people have told it. It doesn't increase transparency, that's for sure. They're gonna start handing out the money on the spot, at the Ministry, and that's it. Exactly the same projects, and you don't have a chance anymore. A member of the Riigikogu, the person who sets this amount, who decides that it is precisely the small projects that need 300 or 500 euros that need to be used for that amount that cannot be taken from anywhere, can only be taken from there, the Gambling Tax Council. We do a lot of these things. Point two. Since the beginning of the work of the Gambling Tax Council, since some of the staff changes took place, we have talked about For example, I think that Harjumaa and Tallinn, the two richest municipalities in Estonia, can afford these little projects and, as far as I know, they do quite a lot of them. We need more support for Läänemaa, Valgamaa, Võrumaa, Ida-Virumaa. We're somehow trying to find that balance. So, in my opinion, transparency is achievable: the second room with a camera and a completely public debate. In the ministry, I don't think you're gonna get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U396	Igor Kravtšenko.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U397	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understood from the Minister that the work of this Council involves quite high administrative costs, i.e. administrative costs. You said the opposite. How is this really happening, and is there anything that can be seriously saved by this reorganisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U398	Thank you. Well, look, there's a... March, 9 people, yes, or 11? [[M. Sults comments on the floor.]] Seven? No, not only members of the Riigikogu, but the Chancellors of the Ministries and others. The members of the Riigikogu receive no additional remuneration for this, not at all, not even the chairman. Chancellors, ministerial staff do this work from their working hours, it's their duty to work, it's also free of charge. I know a person who coordinates all of this, I've never looked into where he gets his pay, but it would be strange if 50,000 or 54,000 a year were paid for this job that has to be done two days a month. I don't know, that's 0.2%, that's $50,000, $54,000, because, according to my data, 25 million will be charged on gambling, and today the Minister said that $27 million, and 0.2% is the sum. I don't know. But where these administrative costs come from, I just can't imagine.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U399	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U400	Thank you, Mr President. Good co-rapporteur! You reminded me of the time you were in the Council. Can you say a few times when you were able to push through your own will rather than do what the Chancellors of the Ministry had already advised you that it was a good project and must be supported, and that is a bad thing, it does not need to be supported? Have you achieved the opposite result?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U401	Thank you. In two years, I sat here and reminded us that we have had about five cases like this. That means 24 regular sittings and five such cases if not requested, but attention will be paid. We all work in our constituency and all these districts are different, they are not only Tallinn and Harjumaa, they are all over Estonia. If there really is a tragic situation somewhere where a great deal may depend on this project, whether local power has got into a fight and does not support it or simply does not pay attention to it, then we will pay attention. Sometimes we hear in response that, uh, didn't know, next time maybe you can get support from there. There have been situations to the contrary. There have been situations like this, I remember twice in two years, when it is, on the contrary, financed things for which, for example, I would never give money. The point is that if we are no longer there, if the Riigikogu does not control the matter, then it will be as the officials decide. In this hall, I know, there are opinions about wall-to-wall, like LGBT. But I think that this organisation has such support across Europe that it must have enough money to finance the same three-day cinema festival somewhere in Rakvere, and I do not know why the Council must support this festival with money that could support five or six small projects in all sorts of municipalities across Estonia. That's the kind of argument we have. But what the chairman of the committee said is also true: after all, we have all taken decisions in a consensual manner. Maybe it's our fault, maybe we should have shown more character. So that's how it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U402	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U403	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I don't know, but for me personally, and I hope that most of the members of the Commission have always felt that cooperation with ministries has been very good for the Commission. The materials have been prepared and we have been able to discuss them. If there are any questions, we have received answers. Certain projects have been postponed until the next time in order to clarify the situation. But when I listened to the Minister today, I had the feeling that something secret had happened, based on contacts. In the Commission, did you also have a question as to what the statistics will show? You reminded me of your time on the committee. Have the ministries also compiled statistics that they came with these projects, but they went, you know, with the others? It would give rise to the claim that there is some sort of, I don't know, party-based or... Although there are different political parties involved. Is that what the committee was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U404	Thank you, Helmen! That wasn't mentioned in the committee, but I can tell you that this has never happened to us in the last two years. In fact, in order to save two hours once a month in order not to come to the Riigikogu to show what choices they have made, the entire financing scheme will now be changed. In order to stop coming here with any final talk, I'm going to say something else on this subject. The Commission staff is currently organising a meeting with ministers in the respective fields, with Helmen, I am, Mr Märt, with the chairmen of the political groups. In such a quiet circle, however, we are trying to find out what is causing this legislative amendment and why it is needed. It is like an insult to me, because I, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will be informed of such a thing when a representative of the government is handing over this project in this remote area. You can still understand things like that. Today I'm defending some kind of package tax or car tax here, right, and three days later I have to tell you why I don't need it. But, after all, I'm sick of it. So before we discuss this issue in our narrow circle, and before you make it clear to us what it needs specifically, because the scheme that is being offered will in no way improve this work, not in any way, we will, I think, just move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U405	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U406	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened here, I myself do not belong to this committee, questions and opinions. I would say 99% of them have been critical of this draft. How did the debate in the Commission go about this bill getting into this hall anyway? How was it not immediately rejected by the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U407	Thank you. It's a matter of attitude, Henn. We've known each other quite a long time, haven't we, and you know I prefer to discuss things, not that they cook under the blanket somewhere, and then we'll see what happens. It is better to discuss it, it is better to speak it out honestly once here, and it is possible to do everything between the first and second readings if necessary. So there was an attitude in the Commission, I would say, not as serious as it might have been. But maybe there weren't people there that day who should definitely be talking to about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U408	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no more questions. At the beginning of the negotiations, I would remind you that at the end of the negotiations the Minister will be able to speak again if he so wishes. Now, however, I am opening negotiations to discuss the general principles of the draft law. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U409	Good chairman of the sitting! Good coworkers! First of all, I would like to say that the form we have here in such debates is, in my opinion, strange. I've been here one year now and one day. After the first reading, we could have opinions, but we have political groups speaking at first reading, speaking on behalf of the so-called group, then there will be a vote in the committee, and at second reading, everyone can blow the air out. We play democracy, then they vote and that's it in a jar, more changes than there will be. However, I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I have not been able to talk about these things. And now, good Mikhail, I'd like to tell you that, whether you've been on that committee or not, I think that's a pretty good idea. The Gambling Tax Council has worked. Yes, those who have not received money from it are not satisfied, and those who keep getting it are constantly satisfied with it. When you ask where EUR 54000 goes for operational expenditure, I say that the competences of the officials who prepare materials need to be promoted, improved and raised at all times, and they go to international seminars with this money going there. The members of the Riigikogu, however, have been put in charge of this whole bull. You get the materials two days earlier, all the decisions made for you are easier and clearer than the song. And then, when you ask, the bird will sing to you on the branch exactly what you need. I've only asked the Gambling Council for money once. We football fans wanted to get a blue black and white flag like the rest of us. Turns out it was too cheap, or it just didn't interest anyone. That's why I want to say things that I think are a matter of concern, not to waste your time here and now on this board. What's strange is, don't you trust the brow tonight? Yeah, we know there are differences and differences, right, for some projects, but when cultural matters go under, I think it's normal. Of course, it does not make sense that we have sport in the field of the Ministry of Culture. Let's see, 58.2% go to the Olympic Committee. But, unfortunately, this is the situation. There's something I don't understand. It is mainly football clubs that are involved in gambling. I myself have been a member of the board of the football club for some time as Chairman of the Board of the NGO Football Hospital, and then it was a story that we couldn't quite shut down the club when they had nine players involved in betting. Now that we can't do that, that's the problem. The same is true of many youth associations. Yeah, Külliiki here asked how many young people could get. I also listened: $500,000 will be, and the UK will be $400,000. But I spent several years processing applications for annual grants for youth associations. The amounts that went to youth associations were several times lower. So, at the Ministry of Education and Research, projects for kindergartens and schools However, if we are now concerned about some so-called youth associations or umbrella organisations, I think we need to shake this system. If the umbrella organisation represents different organisations, the person working there could also have some experience working in the organisation. But no, we have that when a person is recruited, he becomes a specialist immediately, and if he starts to represent any organization without being himself in any organization at the same time, then he has immediate competence. Mikhail was now crying about the Estonian Red Cross. In Europe it is thought that it is interesting what a strange country this Estonia is, you understand. I've seen abroad on Christmas that they go out and collect money for the people who have suffered. Have we seen it here? No. I think maybe conference tourism is the only thing they do. I'll take it this time...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U410	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U411	Yeah, this time, I'd love to, 'cause this is actually gonna set me on fire. Therefore, I understand that if we want to change the situation, if we want to bring members of the Riigikogu out of the fire there, in fact, the members of the Riigikogu do not decide much anymore, time is involved, the decision has been made, everything has already been turned down by the officials, the situation is not going to change in this respect, it may be better if we give cultural matters to the roster. Well, if the sport goes under the Ministry of Culture, let it go. There were even more interesting and questionable things here, in my opinion, but the important thing is that people have not received very many suggestions and influences there, what to do about things that either seem right to them or do not seem right to them. We were only now talking about perhaps voting in the Gambling Tax Council. Otherwise, all this would not have actually happened, everything would have gone on calmly for another five or ten years before simply proposing that this system would no longer work. You have to shake such systems that are obsolete. We just don't dare take responsibility sometimes. I don't know if this is a good result or not a good one. This is what the Committee on Monetary Affairs can do. He may extend this period, he may negotiate with different parties, but it is at least something other than silently noding. I agree with the representative of the EKRE who said that they do not want to send their representative there, because it is completely pointless when officials have already made decisions based on their personal preference. The members of the Riigikogu simply go there, out of their free will, to shake ashes on their heads and then say yes, we are consensually on its, second and third sides. If anyone has serious arguments that nepotism is taking place in the brow, then the Kula Council should be changed, as should the Ministry of Culture. When I was at the Estonian Youth Work Centre and dealt with the annual grants for youth associations, I saw that there was one very serious mistake in this system. Young people wrote what they wanted to do and asked for money and a lot of money, but their actions were assessed by the result of last year. There were such criteria that if they had scored the maximum, they would no longer have been a youth union, but they would have been just a machine of robot officials. So it could be that we appreciate the activities of these associations and also ask them if they are going to get half the money, which activities they are going to give up. But we didn't ask these questions because, to some extent, this machine was conveniently turned on. You gotta shake it, you gotta shake it! I think that's good right now. I believe that Mikhail is doing a pretty good and sharp job in that committee, and we will learn more from it, or at least the Members of the Commission will find out where the money goes and where the dust comes from and where the 54000 have gone if no one gets any money and works for their pay. It's not that expensive if you're holding meetings during the winter. I support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U412	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Külliiki Kübarsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U413	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am with one of the leading figures of the non-profit association in the Civil Society Foundation Council, by the way, the Council has decided to expel politicians, next week I will have the last session there, and there will be no mention of new politicians, and I will see very clearly his handwriting here. He has antisympathy for politicians as such. When I opened the Gambling Tax Council's website, I saw that the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the Council was absolutely right, in fact, nine members, but there were only seven members on the website, and decisions have been taken or are more or less directed to the Commission to appoint another politician and another non-politician. So it's an unsolved subject there. Yes, I understand the problem is that we have a lot of funds and this landscape is a little fragmented, it would need reform, whether there are politicians at the top or not. At the moment of our criticism, we do not see that different solutions have been considered. The centralisation that this proposal to disband the fund is not the solution, it does not create any transparency. For three years now, I have worked in a council where the Ministry does not write down any lines. A week before all the members of the Council are given a package of requests, together with the evaluators' observations, and we are having a public debate, a record of all positions, including disputes, and all of this is being put up in public. Here, I think, maybe there's a problem with the way things work. No one understands where it comes from and where it goes, but it is all repairable; it is all adjustable in a different way when these proposals are presented and discussed. I do not see that this is the only solution to the problem. I have tried to state in my questions that if we want the creativity of young people, for example, to reach real results, they must be able to apply in an ad-hoc procedure somewhere. It is possible to submit applications to the Gambling Tax Board every month for small projects and once a year for major projects. But when we talk, for example, about getting funding from ministries, there is no flexibility. The principles of the state budget are quite different. It's only once a year, and it's good if you fit in the RES, because you're definitely not gonna fit in there. The question here is that, for example, if youth organisations have to make long-term contracts, it is all about paying the salaries of those officials who maintain this youth organisation, rather than whether this youth organisation could actually give something back to the community. Here is the conflict that I see now and which cannot be resolved in any way by this bill. It's like they don't even want to solve it. And, Minister, I'm sorry, please don't tell me you've been told! You need to know this information yourself, not mediate what you have been told, what kind of organization it is, whether there are members in the organisation, how effective it is, etc. It gives the impression that things are unprepared. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, that this draft be rejected, that things be considered and that alternative solutions be shown to us when you see that there is a problem. I assume the problem is that the landscape is fragmented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U414	Jürgen Ligi on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U415	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a shame that the poor Minister of Finance gets insulted for everything he does, although everything he does isn't wrong. This law, but the draft law on the sharing of structural resources and the redistribution of gambling money, which has been dealt with earlier, is basically a step in the right direction. It must be acknowledged that the institutions that share the money do not need so much. And the Gambling Tax Council, although it doesn't cost anything, is also a somewhat peculiar and debatable structure. But that's not the main question. The key issue with this draft is that this step will eliminate a decentralised and democratically-bodied money-sharing mechanism. There could still be a committee, be it another committee that will decide on this money in the future. It is not actually a good thing to concentrate this money on political control alone. But just like the rooster, there is another problem in sharing this gambling money. Eiki Nestor claimed that gambling tax was made to fund good things at the expense of vices. That explanation is actually stupid. Gambling must be taxed: they are, as vices, effectively controlled, and taking money from them into the state budget is a noble activity. Let them pay, let them pay one extra tax, it's excise duty. But the silly thing is that the one tax with which we really want to limit the phenomenon is that the whole Council and the law have a whole lot of percentages for sharing. And the silly thing is that this bill transfers these percentages to another law. Quite precisely, to the decimal places, we are again dividing a shitty tax by sectors, the amount of which we really have no idea. It could calmly go to the general state budget and, in general, make some kind of state budget a pot that isn't so volatil, so volatile. Gambling tax was one of the most collapsed sources of money during the crisis. It doesn't matter where we take the money if we want to finance the nobles. However, there is a very large difference in the sense that this source should be stable and broad-based and these mechanisms should not be so complex. So a small step has been taken, the problems have been transferred to other places, but this is a step in the right direction. I hope that this appalling aggression here, that this money is to be distributed itself, yet it does not give rise to any pretty fundamentality of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U416	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U417	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, They say war is too serious to be entrusted to the generals. That's a very wise saying. I was sitting here thinking it was about controlling the two powers. It doesn't have to be the authorities who decide everything. They're screwing up. Neither can it be that everything is decided by politicians. We're gonna need officials, or we're gonna get screwed again. This needs to be considered seriously once again, and this needs to be seriously discussed again. Now I understand the comment made by Eiki Nestor, pointing out that four governments have tried to change this thing and they have failed. At the moment, it seems to me that we should discuss this matter again, not just throw it overboard, but discuss it. That's why I came here again. In order to say: we do not support the rejection proposal. We hope to find a common language and to hear normal arguments for the protection of the idea set out in this bill, which is why we do not support rejection at the moment. But I sincerely hope that ministers and all those involved will find time to seriously discuss this issue. Otherwise, it seems to me that this thing just won't move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U418	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U419	I would like to make it clear, Honourable Vice-Chairman, that I am taking this opportunity to object. My name was named twice, I'm taking advantage of one chance. Jürgen Ligi's position is what the Ministry of Finance has wanted for over 20 years. In their opinion, gambling tax is a common tax that comes to the state budget, it can also buy soldiers boots and pay teachers salaries. When gambling tax was introduced and gambling was legalized in Estonia, the Nordic countries were taken as an example, where this tax supports culture, sport, social welfare, health care and other beautiful events. This is the principle that applies in Estonia. I hope that Jürgen Ligi will never be the reason here. Then, I guess we should really start banning gambling tax at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U420	If the Minister does not want to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of Bill 632, but I have the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Free Party to reject the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act at first reading. That means a vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Free Party to reject bill 632, the Gambling Tax Act and the draft law amending the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 12 delegates, with 37, with no abstentions. The proposal of the Estonian Free Party Group was not supported. Thus, the first reading of the draft law has been completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 20 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U421	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, initiated by Riigikogu members Igor Gräzini, Krista Aru, Toomas Kivimägi, Mart Helme and Erki Savisaare. Please waitress Riigikogu member Igor Gräzini.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U422	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for attention and goodwill, maybe even, well, benevolent, humor, anything, even though we're going to talk about some very serious things. Both opposition and coalition ambassadors have put forward one proposal. The essence of this proposal is that we amend the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu in one place or quite a few places, but in the same case. In particular, we will change one name, this name is the Commission for European Union Affairs, and we will replace it with the Commission for the European Union and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Question number one: is this thing even worth it? Just a few words and nothing else, name. Politics is the area where name means things. If we call something an annexation, it's one thing, as aggression, the other, as occupation, it's the third. If we call someone partisan, it's one thing if we call a terrorist, it's another thing. Names mean things. Actually, everything we do here is just words. We don't break trees, we don't build walls, we don't teach kids. What good are we here anyway? We're just doing words here. But we do these words with confidence that these words mean something to someone. This bill is on the table for the second time before you. I hope he gets more attention this time than he did the first time. And I would say what is the motive for this bill and what is the reason behind it. By the way, I'll make it easier for the lead committee waitress. Indeed, there were no objections to this draft within the Commission. There was a vote against, and there was a lot of them, but when I asked after the vote, please tell me why you voted against, there was one argument that the Commission representative would certainly say, because there were no other arguments that this was a substitute. And when I asked you to substitute for what, Marko shrugged his shoulders. Now I realized when I watched them talk about personal data here and so on. They think it's serious now. So in relation to that, of course, it's a substitute, although I say exactly the opposite. Political terminology is an important activity, but compliance with the Euro Directive does not know what time-fill is. But that's what it is. What, then, is the fundamental reason to change? We know it's Brexit. We know that Britain will soon be gone in the European Union. We also know that Britain will never move beyond the continent and remains connected to Europe. These links with Europe, however, acquire a completely different legal nature than they have so far. There is no link anywhere else in the world between Britain and Europe. The European Free Trade Zone, the North Atlantic Treaty, has nothing to do with this. So, first of all, from the point of view of the content of our own work, it is a perfectly logical question who will deal with Britain and their relations. In today's sense, the Committee on European Union Affairs does not cover this area because British relations are different. The Committee on Foreign Affairs does not cover this in the sense that our relations with Britain are not the same as those with Kazakhstan, Vanuatu or Tuulemaa, for example. They're still kind of right here, closer. They are nothing third, they are not today ELAK and they are not today..., quite even less they are today's Committee on Foreign Affairs. Therefore, in recognition of this situation, which has actually developed in the European Union, this change would mean that we recognise this reality as objectively what has been done and determine in an orderly manner that everything relating to Britain is within the competence of the Commission. There might be a question, but is there really any problem that tends to get mixed up somewhere? And imagine it is! Question No 1. The European Union's border regime. Ah, we have somehow understood Schengen, but what will be the relationship between the European Union, not Schengen, but the European Union's border regime between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland? At first glance, it does not concern the European Union at all, it is purely a matter for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is once again a matter for us, because this border regime has been established by the European Union as a normal country, not a Schengen country. Okay, line up. Next, fish quota. Well, that's an example! Fish quota. Who can fish in whose waters? Territorial waters and the international economic zone are very clear. It is not the case that fish have been everywhere, since the time of Noah's flood. No, it's not! Since then, countries, quotas, border guards and such things have arisen. Who owns fish in the English EEZ? Until now, it was as clear as the European Union, wasn't it? This is far from the case now. And as for the negotiations on the distribution of fish quotas between Continental Europe and Great Britain, remember the war between Spain and Great Britain, etc., which almost went to war. By the way, we were even 10 minutes away from the real war when Siim Kallas told the Latvians that if you wanted the war, you would have the war. So, who or what committee does this matter come under? The third interesting question is the customs between Europe and the US. By the way, I think Trump did the right thing. In short, Trump is one of the few US presidents who are consistent, clear and fulfilling their promises, but that is not the point. The fact is that the American customs regime for the European Union and for England will be different. Because, as you know, Trump imposed customs on the European Union, where England is now leaving. In this case, what are our customs relations with both England and the United States? What committee is going to discuss this? The Committee on Foreign Affairs or the European Commission? Or maybe the European Commission, to whom we give a mandate and tasks to deal with all, say, residual or emerging problems arising from the fact that, in the meantime, England, because of historical whim, error, chance or irony, formed something in common with the European continent, which it has never, or has never wanted to be? For Europe, throughout history, it has been a blessing that the English have their own money, their own borders and their own London City. So I want to say that there are real problems between these two areas. Then why don't we just admit it in the name? But there's one more thing. Two months ago, the group of envoys invited me to speak to a few dozen members of the British House of Commons, who together form the so-called Brügge or Bruges group, founded by Margaret Thatcher. They are one of the forces that have always stood for English sovereignty, which is an interparty group. One of the very important lower parts of the Bruges group is a group called Bruges Rouge or Red Brügge. These are British Labourmen who stand for British trade union rights versus European industrial and professional regulations. The motive why I was invited was that, well, I didn't take it very seriously at first. Now, you've written a declaration of sovereignty there and tell me how it went and whether it was scary in 1988. And then I realized it wasn't a joke. Now, in this critical situation, where England is taking a bold step towards taking its future through the past, any outside support is important. Just as at the end of the 1940's our parents and grandparents tried to get the BBC and London radio programmes and Stockholm and Helsinki to hear a comforting or inspiring word, as small as it was. It was also heard when no one really believed that something was going to happen, and when everyone realized that the American Voice was lying and that nothing was coming from there, but it was the voice of hope, and even such a small thing was important. You know, in a human way, our colleagues, yes, in the British House of Commons, in a very proud place, also feel some human uncertainty about what happens next. But there's no turning back. I realized that all of a sudden this is where we could give them a little moral support in the sense that we're not telling them that you're no longer anyone now, and now we're going to avenge you for everything, and so on, but we are, England, actually in the same boat with you, we've been there through the common history. We remember, England, what you've done for us. We very much appreciate, England, your contribution to our security. England, you're so important to us in NATO. You know, you're important to us! And I look at these lower House ambassadors and I think on the other hand, how little is sometimes needed. There is no need for our cellulose or oil shale or anything in England, but sometimes it is strictly human that someone comes and pats on his shoulder: 'Nice guy, everything is going to be okay. ' And it's important. I think that from our certain support, which is not expressed in anything other than three words, which we put in our rules of procedure, which does not pay us a single drop, and I take all the responsibility personally, put me in jail, shoot me, do what you want, there will be no trouble for Estonia. No one else will be locked up for this, so don't be afraid. This small movement, which actually costs us nothing but humanity and some sympathy for a country that is terribly important to us, can be important to that country. And the last one. In all our relations, we must take into account that alliances come and alliances go. The European Union will not remain forever either, or it will not remain forever as it was. Hitler's eternal third country lasted 20 years, Soviet Communism was built for 70 years, Napoleon's enlightened empire never continued for 30 years, so goes everyone. Everything happens in this world, everything disappears, all alliances are signed, all alliances are separated, and that is the case. Therefore, we could ask ourselves a question by means of a thought experiment. I hope this does not happen, but in a thought experiment we could ask ourselves what will remain for us, Estonia, after all the alliances have disappeared, if there is no European Union, if there is no NATO, if there is no more nothing and there is again Estonia. Who or what do we have left? And the answer is extremely simple: we have our friends who are our friends. The American attitude toward us and the English attitude toward us does not depend on what kind of alliance we are in. Wouldn't this friendship be worth caring for and confirming with a small additional political and security capital? My mom said a good word doesn't cost anything, but sometimes she brings in an awful lot. All in all, this is the proposal: on the basis of the internal problems mentioned above and given a certain positive resonance among our English allies, the proposal would be to introduce the corresponding amendment into the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U423	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Igor! In fact, the third Reich existed for 12 years, not, thank God, 20.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U425	Yeah, sorry, right!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U426	Now here's the question. See, for example, when Sweden comes out tomorrow, or France the day after tomorrow, and then the name will be extended: the European Union and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the French Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden. Wouldn't it be easier to do the opposite and take one word out? If there were a Commission on European Affairs, it would be covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U427	I had the idea of calling this thing a European Commission at all, because then there would be a pleasant ambiguity. If the European Commission decided, the journalist would always ask whether it was Brussels or Tallinn. That would be very elegant. Basically, when this thing was first written down year and a half ago, the proposal was different. It was then the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union and the countries that left it, but I thought it was somehow provocative. Let's not get ahead of ourselves! Brexit is still, to some extent, unique, even in the sense that Sweden has always been part of Europe and England has never been. So this difference is historically there, well, it's a different story. We have also talked about our relations, that Estonia has different relations with England than with other countries, as well as with Sweden.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U428	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U429	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I thank the renowned faculty for an appropriate, inspiring and educational lecture! Why don't you give me an "A"? In fact, there is no doubt that such a decision would receive significant positive attention and recognition in the United Kingdom. However, I ask, just in case, that the name of the European Union Affairs Committee does not come from some European Union directives. Second of all, you were talking about this trouble. We're not gonna get in trouble with the European Union, are we? Why don't you go over it again? Maybe we'll miss something. Why don't you calm us down on this, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U430	Indeed, it is not, it is purely a matter of our internal organisation of work. By the way, it has exactly the same meaning as when we call the Committee on Agriculture, for example, and then vice versa. The renaming of the respective Ministry didn't make anything better, fortunately, no worse. So it is purely a matter of our internal organisation, and it is more of an interpretative matter, to be punished for nothing. That's one. Secondly, Brexit is an officially recognised real political process in the European Union, for which there is, imagine, even Juncker said that it is a process covered by legitimate interests. And if it is Juncker, then heaven's grace!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U431	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U432	Thank you! Dear waitress, I admit that it was actually quite enjoyable to listen to such a long debate, a philosophical tirate. I'm not saying that I really like all this at 9:00 tonight...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U433	But I didn't have another time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U434	... but I am absolutely sure that at 9:00 a.m. in another institution, somewhere in the church, such a philosophical debate would sound very well and you would be great there. But now I come to the beginning of the report when you said that it would take a little sense of humor to understand this bill, support it, etc. During my hearing, I had a bad suspicion that maybe it was like this funny thing. You're not kidding with this bill, are you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U435	No, I'm not, but I know a lot of people think that. I'll tell you why I don't. Look, in my previous life or sometimes in my left or back life, my specialty is legal semiotics. It is a science of legal signs: tolars, texts, all kinds of vows and all kinds of things, everything that goes around the court, and what it all means in different cultures. Among other things, as a student of Yuri Lotman, the signs and words have been my profession. Words mean not only what they say, but they also have some kind of cultural idea. But why did I say "humorous"? I've seen people very often, and I've been in contact with people who ask, "Well, you've been doing this for 30 years, and you're a doctor of science, but what have you been doing?" And when I start explaining, they say, "Well, now that's science! " What did Lotman do? Nothing. Where is it? So in that sense, it was said to be somewhat self-defense, so understand, I take it deadly seriously, but I understand if any of you suddenly don't. It was more of a shyness.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U436	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U437	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I agree with you that the name is undoubtedly very important. When our ancestors named the child, they believed that they could determine the fate of the child. At the same time, you said yourself, let's not get ahead of ourselves. After all, the British have not actually left the European Union yet; they are only halfway there and, in the nine months or a little longer, which have remained there, many things can change in the world. I'm not sure they're even leaving yet. Don't you think if we change that name now, we'll kind of run in front of the train?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U438	There is such a famous expression that the merit of the favor decreases significantly after it is indicated. Sympathy and support are nice, but they are much less valuable than they are indicated and given when they are not really needed anymore. We very much appreciated this country, we have even named the square in honor of the country that first recognised us. Althing, the oldest parliament in Iceland, decided to recognise Estonia's independence. It was another week or two before the Americans did. The Finns did it a year later, and I think they're still regretting that they're even taking us as a country. I also understand them after all this excise crap, because why did Estonia need it then? So, yes, of course! We can not do that, but once everything has been done, it will no longer have the supporting value it has today. But the 44 brothers who sat in Alting, the oldest parliament in the world, said at the time as the only ones in the world: 'Let what comes and come who comes, but we acknowledge Estonia! ' We recognize Brexit as a process with this little gesture. When Brexit's ready... Well, no, maybe after, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U439	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U440	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good penguin, in your report, you said you were told as a counter argument, how the sentence sounded, that you were in substitution business. Have you heard, say, arguments against arguments or just such fish mullets?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U441	I haven't heard any fish mullets, I've heard one fish mumbler, it was, and I reported it here. I would remind you that about a year ago we discussed a similar bill, and I did not hear any arguments in the big hall. So there are no arguments against it. The strongest counter argument that has been so far is such a shoulder structure and such a light smile that it is needed for what it is. I was trying to figure out what it was for.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U442	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U443	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The evening is still young, we do have time to have a long discussion and debate here, especially on the committee meeting that took place on 29 May when this draft was discussed. During the meeting of the Commission, Igor Gräzin, one of the initiators of the draft, presented the purpose of this draft, which he also presented very thoroughly here today. The other initiators are Krista Aru, Toomas Kivimägi, Mart Helme, Andres Ammas and Erki Savisaar. It is therefore a politically rather broad-based initiative. The Members of the Commission did not ask very many questions. The Remark remark was made by Jüri Adams, who referred to the name Northern Ireland, instead of which the name Northern Ireland could be used, because Northern Ireland is a much wider geographical term than Northern Ireland in political terms. The second comment was made by the speaker here, who also pointed out the fact that a near or exactly similar draft has been in the process here. It was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 16 May 2017 and the draft was then rejected. As Igor Gräzin, who spoke on behalf of the initiators of the draft, spoke both in the Commission and in the presentation here, no substantive arguments have been put forward against this draft and they were not present at the Commission meeting. The debate was limited to these comments and went to procedural decisions. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 6 June. It was a consensual decision, voted for by Helmut Hallemaa, Jaak Madison, Lauri Luik, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb and Tiit Terik. For incomprehensible reasons, the Commission proposed to reject the draft. There were five people in favour, one against, and one abstention. More specifically, helmut Hallemaa, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb and Tiit Terik voted in favour of rejecting the draft, Jaak Madison was against and Lauri Luik abstained. It was proposed that Jaak Madison, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, be appointed rapporteur for the draft, which was a consensual decision. That was the scope of the procedural decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-06_U444	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Jaak Madison! I'm opening negotiations, no calls. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to reject draft 610 at first reading. This proposal must be voted on under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 610 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 32 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal of the Constitutional Commission and 13 against, with 2 abstentions. Bill 610 has fallen out of procedure. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 21.31 p.m.
