ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the VII session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and related amendments to other laws. In processing the draft law in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. Secondly, the draft law amending the law on health and safety at work and the law on collective agreements. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in processing the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U3	I have adopted two draft laws. On the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will discuss what to do with them. Checking for presence. 83 members of the Riigikogu are currently present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the third working week of the seventh session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! I hope that it will now be possible to start the work of this House. First, an inquiry by Artur Talvik, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsepp, Monika Haukanõm, Jüri Adams, Andres Ammas and Külliki Kübarsepp. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U5	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It is my honour to introduce an inquiry to the most popular minister of this day, Urmas Reinsalu. This question concerns the treatment of small shareholders in the Estonian legal system in general, but with one very specific example. Much attention has been paid in the media to the unfair treatment of the former small shareholders of Telia, a Swedish corporation, as well as the protection of the rights of small shareholders and minority shareholders in general. For example, in Telia's dispute after seven years of litigation, which ended with the victory of small shareholders, most small shareholders have still not been able to obtain the fair compensation granted by Telia by the Estonian court. Telia has also largely refused to pay late payments and has ignored the explicit order of the small shareholders to pay the remuneration to the representatives of the small shareholders. Telia has not provided any explanation of her behaviour and, despite repeated orders from the Estonian court, the members of the board of Telia have refused to attend the hearings. Small shareholders have had long and costly litigation, but they still lack the means to force Telia to pay out the compensation determined by the court. This situation indicates significant shortcomings in the Estonian legal space. The Minister of Justice has initiated a draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, as well as a revision of company law. When making changes to laws, it is also important to analyse how to better ensure the protection of small shareholders. According to the Ministry of Justice's Statute, the Ministry's administration includes, inter alia, the planning and implementation of the state's legal and criminal policies. In lawmaking, the Ministry has competence, inter alia, to protect fundamental rights and freedoms and to monitor constitutionality. On the basis of the above and of § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, we ask the Minister questions about the protection of the fundamental rights of small shareholders. There are four questions. I hope the Minister reads them out. But I also say that this is a pretty interesting legal problem. On the one hand, we have the protection of small shareholders under the law as if it were guaranteed, but in reality this protection does not work. We want to know what the Minister of Justice has done to make it work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U6	Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U7	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! Thanks for asking me about this. As requested by the representative of the authors of the inquiry, I will read out the specific questions. Firstly, you ask whether the current Code of Civil Procedure provides immediate and fair compensation to small shareholders for the loss of their property, which is protected by the Constitution. Secondly, you ask whether the current Code of Civil Procedure guarantees small shareholders the right to an effective procedure, which is also enshrined in the Constitution. The question is also how the law ensures that small shareholders receive compensation from Telia, in accordance with the judgment, including interest and expenses, and what changes are planned in the Code of Civil Procedure and the Commercial Code in order to better ensure the protection of small shareholders and minority shareholders. The topic you raised, the need for the protection of minority shareholders as an institute of legal order, has also been brought to the attention of the Supreme Court, noting that the Estonian legislator would be able and necessary to consider the creation of protection mechanisms for the interests of minority shareholders. I would point out that Chapter 60 of the Code of Civil Procedure clearly regulates the procedure for determining the amount of compensation to be paid to small shareholders, but not the procedure for the payment of compensation. This means that if the court has determined the amount of compensation in the course of the proceedings without an action, the small shareholder cannot claim the payment of a specific compensation by way of enforcement proceedings on the basis of that decision. If the company does not pay the compensation voluntarily, a specific claim must be addressed to the court. However, this would already be the case and the focus of this procedure would be to determine the amount of the claim (if any and the number of shares) of a particular small shareholder. What are the reasons for such a procedure in the current legal order? First, the procedure without an action for determining the amount of compensation provided for in Chapter 60 of the Code of Civil Procedure is intended to enable the "fair remuneration for a single share" to be discussed separately. Legally or economically, it can be, indeed, a rather complex dispute and, as a rule, it is based on various expert opinions. Secondly, the value of the share is determined in the proceedings without an action on the grounds that it would not be possible to determine different prices for the value of the share, depending on the success of a small shareholder in defending his interests in court. The aim is to fix a single price and this can be done procedurally in proceedings without an action. Thirdly, however, the requirement for a specific remuneration for each small shareholder must be defined in the action for the reason that each small shareholder must first be able to prove that he was a shareholder and is entitled to compensation, secondly, he must be able to prove how much he had at the time of the disposal of the shares. The procedure for proving the ownership of shares can be quite complex in practice, since shares are also held in the account of the agent, and it is also important to prove the exact moment in which the shares are transferred and the number of shares transferred or acquired. Those circumstances may vary on a case-by-case basis and therefore must also be established in the case-by-case procedure. The lodging of an objection of limitation by the debtor cannot be excluded. It is possible to pay the compensation on a voluntary basis, but it is also his interest that he should be certain whether the claimant really has this claim. At a certain point in time, the claimant was the owner of a certain number of shares. I would now like to stress that any small shareholder who is forced to claim compensation through a court of law can certainly claim reimbursement of the costs of proceedings in accordance with § 162 (1) of the Code of Civil Procedure. This has long been the regulation of the Code of Civil Procedure. I would like to emphasise what the respondents have also pointed out: when it comes to the protection of minority shareholders' rights, we have to admit that we have very little case law on this type of case. The settled case-law of this very long procedure always raises the question whether this procedure is optimal, whether this logic corresponds to the considerations which the legislator has taken into account. However, it is certainly in its own right to have a case-law in court proceedings, because it can also be relied upon for future precedents. However, I would like to emphasise what the heirs have also pointed out is that a review of company law is currently taking place, this task I have assigned to the expert group, and the starting point for this review is that the whole catalogue concerning the protection of minority shareholders' rights has been strongly addressed. I have asked for this review to be assessed separately, indeed, in the light of the case-law that has developed, rather narrowly, even in the light of this case. The question is that the legal order can be fully functional in a formal way, and in a procedural way things can move formally along a "predicted path" in order to determine a fair solution in disputes, but it is clear that, in addition to such a formal procedure, it is important that the form or procedure is also effective and effective and that the rights are actually exercised. The review process requires a thorough, substantive and systematic analysis of the rules on the protection of the interests of the various legal entities, the majority and minority shareholders, as well as the joint owners of participations. It is also the task of the audit to analyse the legal remedies available to participants to deal with different types of conflict situations (this is also the case which has taken place, which can be interpreted as such). This includes, inter alia, an analysis of the following issues: providing information to the shareholders, disclosure of individual fees for members of the management bodies, avoidance of conflicts of interest, right of withdrawal from the minority shareholders' association (so-called sell-out law), issue of setting up a shareholder forum, guaranteeing the functioning of the company in the event of equal participation, agreements between shareholders and shareholders. So, I hope that the experts on these issues, the best civil law experts, will carry out a thorough analysis and propose solutions that will take the whole system forward in a positive direction. If this is the case, whether the Ministry is planning to initiate an individual solution on account of this case, or whether it is planning to draw up a specific section that would have been included in this incentive, then we have taken into account the logic that the whole of the Commercial Code and the Civil Dispute Settlement System are whole and that there must be a balance of various types (the objectives of the protection of property rights and the functioning of the economic environment). That is why we have preferred the solution to the fact that we have all the alternatives, where the legislator is the ultimate choicer. There are certainly formal legal considerations in making one or the other choice, but there are also legal value decisions on which course of behaviour to prefer or in which direction to shift the balance. That is certainly the legitimate right of the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U8	Questions for the Minister of Justice. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U9	Thank you. Good minister! I understand from your response that a review committee is working on a proposal for new solutions and an analysis of the old situation. When, then, will this Commission produce any result? That's part of the question. What is your assessment of this particular Telia case? [[There's no question.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U10	I'm sorry! Please return the microphone to Arthur Talvik, because the minister does not hear the question. Maybe you'll sit in second place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U11	One-one-one! Yeah, now the mike's working. Today is such an interesting day that you can see, even the question to Reinsalu will be turned off! [[Laughing.]] But those questions weren't on the subject, like the microphone switch off thought. What is your specific position on this Telia case? What is your assessment of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U12	The first question was what is the final date for this revision, which we have now had such a vision about business law that there is a new level of business law project on the table in terms of the platform. When we look at the assessment of the world's business environment, we see several aspects of our business regulations, several indicators that do not give Estonia such points so that we can be on top or above where we would expect to be. This final review should be completed by 2020. This may seem like a long, multi-annual process at first sight. How long will it take? I can bring a parallel to the codification of the pre-war civil code, which was done in essence two decades under the leadership of Jüri Uluots, which was completed in the unfortunate year of 1940. These jobs are substantial. But as far as my personal assessment of the Telia case or this case is concerned, I am certainly not going to comment on the decision. I have absolutely no grounds for an assessment of judicial proceedings, judgments and legal decisions as a minister. The Court has applied the law in force. I have listed the legitimate objectives of the current law that the legislator has had in mind. The fact is, as I said, that the Telia case has also created legal practice and, in fact, it has been a long procedure. Now, from the time view of this case. We are saying that there has been a right and an application has been made. It is undoubtedly in the interests of the functioning of our legal environment that we arrive at a solution as soon as possible so that people can move forward, the economy can function, owners have some clarity to exercise their ownership and companies can plan their activities. So the speed of the procedure must certainly be a matter of itself, which I would not say at all in this case. If we manage to reform the speed of the procedure during the review, it is a value in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U13	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U14	Thank you. I have a question about the 'Doing Business' index of the World Bank survey, according to which Estonia is relatively good, ranked 12. It is precisely in terms of the protection of the rights of small shareholders that we are weakestly rated, where we are still 53rd place. I understand there's an audit on this at the Justice Department. I've heard this audition story since at least 2010. The result of the audit depends very much on the task being set up. Can you confirm that one of its objectives is to eliminate the current unfortunate situation and better or more proportionately support the rights of small shareholders?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U15	This audit was initiated, if I'm wrong, in 2016. As far as legislation is concerned, we will do so from the European Union's resources. But the starting point is indeed how to improve the protection of minority shareholders' rights. That's the first way out. I am pleased that the questioner referred to the 'Doing Business' indicator, which also concerns the attractiveness of the investment environment in the eyes of international investors, is one of the important tools for different investments. It is certainly one thing to better realise the protection of minority shareholders' rights with respect to the fundamental rights of property, but the other is that the protection of minority shareholders' rights is linked to the attractiveness of our economic environment, so that more investors have a clear understanding that they can effectively realise their ownership rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U16	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U17	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Shareholders recently held a conference on shareholder rights. As I understand it, one of the main proposals for how to tackle the problem was that a small shareholder should have the right to withdraw from a group where he has invested his capital at a fair price. It is now a situation where the majority, the so-called general meeting, decides whether the small shareholders can leave and whether or not they can withdraw the dividend. Why has such a situation ever arisen? Let's talk history. Why is the Ministry not prepared to discuss the proposed solution in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U18	Thank you. As regards historical or legal policy choices in our legal environment on this site, this choice was made at the time of the creation of the Commercial Code. In the economic environment, there are different interests, which, I imagine, were considered very thoroughly in the light of this reform. On one side, the operation of the company, its "predictable' activities and its value in the economic environment, on the other, the shareholder's right to realise his or her property. There have also been a number of court decisions on this subject, if I remember correctly, and in these cases the Court has indicated that this is a 'legal policy choice'. In an economic environment, these issues can be resolved in one way or another, it is not in this sense, let's say, to make a legal choice, where the "evidence" problem is constitutionally unconstitutional. The Ministry has also taken these proposals into consideration, but, as I said, the position taken by the Ministry in this area is that we are trying to address this issue in a holistic way. If I am not mistaken, in the summer of the Riigikogu's Committee on Legal Affairs there was a serious debate about these problems. The thoughts expressed in this legal debate are certainly one of the inputs to this review.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U19	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned that the ongoing review of company law will take time. Clearly, it is a long and thorough work. However, until 2020, which is now set for the deadline for this revision, will the bottlenecks highlighted by small shareholders and shareholders not be discussed at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U21	Thank you. No, I'm sure I'd like to say it's fatalistic to me, too, right, 2020 and the bird won't fly before. That would make life so sad. In fact, the Ministry of Justice also conducts a comprehensive review of national defence law, as well as an insolvency review. My message has actually been that life will not stop, that life will move faster and faster, and that the blocks that can be treated as self-sustaining wholes can certainly also be dealt with as'separate products'. They are not so dealt with that 2020 is a 'airship ready', such a gorgeous and streamlined phenomenon. It must always be assumed that the legal conditions may have changed in turn, and so this work can be done endlessly. My message is that the starting point for this revision is a separate set of topics to be addressed, and that is the rights of minority shareholders. Secondly, the starting point is how to strengthen these minority shareholders' rights. I have asked separately to assess these circumstances in the course of this review in the light of the development of legal practice. If experts have reached this stage with their analysis, they can be introduced to these results. As I receive signals from the legislator that this issue should be dealt with more effectively, it is certainly my task to pass on this message to the steering group that is organising the review.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U22	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The question is this: would the Minister, in order to ensure equal rights on both sides, see the possibility of considering, for example, a compulsory dividend claim or if a large shareholder does not pay dividends, such as a compulsory buy-out claim?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U24	It is a question of legal policy choice whether to consider it. If you look at the spectrum in this area in the countries of the European Union, what has actually been done, when you talk about Telia's case, you can say that certain things are regulated here at European Union level. At the level of the Directive, the framework has been proposed. I am referring here to the European Takeover Bids Directive, which lays down common principles for the fair take-over of shares in listed companies (i am referring to the Telia case). But it is a question of legal policy choice, and I think it is a completely legitimate proposal among other proposals. I'm pretty sure this will be analyzed during the audit. Once again, the starting point or assumption of this review, or presumption, is still the block of the issue of how to strengthen the rights of minority shareholders, not weaken them or maintain the status quo.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U25	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U26	Good Chairman! Thank you for your answers to the Minister. I was prompted by the Minister's statement that there would have been a serious debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I regret to say that what took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs was one of the most horrible ways that Riigikogu members have used in relation to a possible voter: two large groups of representatives of small shareholders basically put the Commission at the door. I had the impression that this was a very world-view issue, not prepared to discuss minority protection issues. It was also one of the motives why, in order to be aware of our subject, we brought it to this debate. If you've been following public media coverage over the past month and a half, you know it's not just about Telia. The issue of shareholders of the Baltic ship repair plant has also been discussed very thoroughly. That's where the questions are repeated. Why is it important that we talk about this earlier than 2020? The Minister also considered it important that we have a vibrant economic life. In order to stimulate the economy, it must be guaranteed that it can move its capital freely. If I want to put my capital in a large group and then withdraw it for some reason, but I will be punished for it and I will lose most of my capital, it is certainly not a legal practice inherent in the rule of law. Indeed, this is a political decision-making place, as the Minister has repeatedly said here. You who are in charge of the work of our Riigikogu, be good, we will make these political choices and initiatives! Once again, the Riigikogu is trapped because of its principle that we ourselves are not initiating anything, but are expecting initiatives from the Minister. This is the point of thinking whether or not we want to continue this legal practice in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U27	There's no more calls. Is there anything the Minister would like to add? No, I don't. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U28	Now an inquiry by Artur Talvik, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Herkel, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp and Ain Lutsepp. Arthur Talvik on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U29	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot of talk about this remote control lately, and there's also our next question about the forest. Estonian forestry policy has been changing for a long time. The amendments to the Forest Act, which came into effect in September 2017, have opened up younger fellings in the open, have reached 60 years of tree trees and have facilitated cutting conditions. The government has seen RMK as a profit producer and is happy to withdraw large sums of money from it. As we know, a pretty large amount of RMK's dividends was also planned for this year's budget, which is supposed to cover a slightly reduced increase in excise duty. It does not take into account the wider cultural and ecological value of the forest. Support from the Government of the Republic is also questionable, which is expressed in the preparation of the country's special plan for the pulp plant on Tartumaa. The planned plant needs considerable wood to function, which in turn puts Estonia's forests under considerable felling pressure. Attempts to relax felling conditions in forests that are protected by nature are bizarre. This effort makes the protected areas meaningless and threatens the preservation of the ecosystems of the Estonian forest. One bright example is § 14 (1) (5) of the Nature Conservation Code of Northern Kõrve County, the amended version of which entered into force in November 2017. The changes have significantly facilitated the cutting of protected forests. This is a decree of the Government of the Republic for which the Ministry of the Environment has provided input. There are reports that in South Estonia, private individuals buy together forests of nature parks, which would be commercially pointless if such changes were not foreseen. In short, we have in the meantime, even after asking for information, collected more data from a number of locations in different restricted zones where the protection rules have been amended, and it is precisely in the direction that clear cutting can be done there. We have asked the Minister five questions. But our main question is why such a change has taken place in protected areas and what is happening to the Estonian forest, which has brought such pressure on the Estonian forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U30	Minister for the Environment Siim Kiisler will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U31	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the questions. I will read them out for clarity, although some are quite long and include an assessment. The first question: 'The current wording of the above rule is as follows: 'In the limit zone of Lake Koitjärv, Nahe and Push, clear cutting spruce and grey plinter with a surface area of up to two hectares and a security cutting bar with a surface area of up to five hectares, the diversity of species and age must be preserved. ' Before the amendment entered into force in November, the wording was as follows: '5) the security cutting in the grey leaves in the restricted zones of Push, Koitjärv and Nahe, while maintaining the diversity of species and age of association. Outside grey leaves, security cutting is permitted in these restricted zones for a good cutting period of at least 40 years, with a single cutting step of up to 20% of the stock of the stand, while maintaining the diversity of species and age of association. " From now on, the protected area will be able to deal with even clear cutting, which will nullify the meaning of the protected area and be simply anti-forested. Please explain why the Government of the Republic has decided to damage the protected area in this way. What discussions and arguments are behind this change? " I will also read out the second question and answer the two questions together for clarity. The second question: 'Please explain what political and forestry-specific arguments are behind the relaxation of the conservation regime of nature reserves? How much money does the state get because of this? ' Now the answer. The restricted zone of the protected area is an area where economic activity is permitted subject to certain restrictions, according to the Nature Conservation Act. Areas where management taking account of management conditions ensures both the achievement of the objectives of the area and the ability of the landowner to manage the forest moderately shall be categorized into the restricted zone. Areas where it is not possible to reconcile these two things are included in the target protection zone in daily practice. In drawing up the conservation rule for Northern Kõrvemaa, the aim was not to prohibit the management and renewal of forests in the restricted zone, as management and renewal would not undermine the achievement of conservation objectives. The same principle was followed by the amendment of the Northern Kõrvemaa rule. Following the approval of the conservation rules in 2007, the Forest Management Code was amended, which allowed the reforestation of the forest in spruce during 2007‐2017 only through clear cutting. The draft amendment to the Northern Kõrvemaa rule, which again gave the opportunity to renew the spruce, was made public in April 2016. In the Northern Kõrvemaa protected area, cuttings of innovation are permitted; they were permitted with the consent of the manager of the protected area even before the rule was amended. This is a decision to consider, the manager has the right to decide which cutting, whether clear or security cutting, is allowed to renew the spruce. The manager of the protected area shall not coordinate the cutting if it is likely to impair the achievement of the conservation objective of the protected area or the condition of the protected area. As a result of such a decision, the State will not receive any significant additional funding. I'll explain. RMK's data for the last seven years show that the volume of clear cutting in the restricted zones of the protected area in the country has not changed significantly in recent years and the average annual clear cutting in the restricted zones of the protected area is of the order of 100 hectares per year or less. By comparison: RMK's clear cutting volume per year is in the order of 10000 hectares, here we are talking about 100 hectares or less. The third question: 'Which conservation regimes of other nature reserves, which are regulated by separate legislation, are going to be modified or have already been relaxed against logging? Please state and state the reasons. ' 397 protected areas are allowed for the renewal of the forest with a small langina clear cutting (i.e. a maximum of 2 hectares) with the consent of the manager of the protected area in a total of 131 protected areas, of which 51 protected areas have the possibility of granting protection rules; 80 areas without protection rules are permitted both clear and security cutting with the consent of the manager of the protected area under the Nature Conservation Act. There's no plan to soften the defenses. During the renewal of protection regimes, protection regimes may become both stricter and less stringent. When updating the conservation rules, the natural values of the site shall be reviewed and the feasibility of the protection regime assessed. The restrictions are designed to ensure that the conservation objectives of the protected area are achieved, while being proportionate and not unduly restricting the use of the land. As a rule, protection zones allow small langina security cutting (i.e. as a 2-Hectar lang) and, in certain cases, clear cutting. The possibility of clear cutting on 0,5 to 2 hectares is provided in this case where the composition and location of the forest, such as openness to the winds, or the state of health, are such that it is more reasonable than security cutting, both in terms of achieving the conservation objective and the renewal of the forest. One of the reasons for authorising clear cutting with conservation rules has also been that the forest management rule was 2007/2017. The security cutting ban in spruce and clear cutting was the only way of innovation that could be implemented. Perhaps the code of protection was written in clear cutting because the code did not foresee the use of a security cutting. Since this was the only reason to allow clear cutting with protection rules and now it is possible to renew the spruce with security cutting, it will no longer be necessary to permit clear cutting in a spruce with protection rules. Perhaps if I replied earlier that the draft amendment to the Northern Kõrvemaa rule was being made public in April 2016, then this amendment did not apply at the time. Question 4: "Why has there not been public research and public debate on relaxing the conservation regimes of nature reserves? ' In the process of preparing the protection rules for all protected areas, the involvement and disclosure of stakeholders will take place. Announcements about the public display are published in Official Announcements and in local and national newspapers. All landowners, local authorities and other parties to proceedings shall be informed by letter. When a request has been made, public consultations shall also be held. Question 5: How can the protection rule in the area of clear cutting (even if it is limited to a maximum of 2 hectares) be met, so that the diversity of species and age of association must be preserved? 'The requirement to preserve the diversity of the species and age of the association is laid down for the whole zone. When making a decision on the coordination of the forest statement, the manager of the protected area shall assess the impact of a specific innovation cut on the objectives of the zone and shall lay down the conditions where this felling threatens the diversity of the species and age of the composition in the zone. Those were the answers. I would add that clear cutting may also be intended to achieve the objectives of protection. The experts gave me an example of Nõva's nature reserve. It was said that forestry was, in its time, a major modern achievement, that the forest was planted on the bed, but when the conservation objectives were met, clear cutting was made to restore the straw's habitat and the sand was restored. We can also give examples of the restoration of swamps where clear cutting is carried out first, or of woody meadows. There are also situations where clear cutting is done simply to achieve the objectives of the protection rule. But I stress once again that I think the key number to evaluate it is 100 hectares a year. Let's think about RMK's volumes and turnover. The text of the inquiry also referred to the State's revenue side. RMK's profit is EUR 40.45 million per year, cut to the order of 4 million cubic metres. Compared to these orders of magnitude, it is clear that there is no great national interest to go to the restricted zones to earn revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U32	Questions for the Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U33	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You said nicely that changes to the protection rule can be both relaxing and tightening. However, the trend seems to be that, over the last three years, all these changes have made clear cutting acceptable, they do not point to a different trend, whether it is a national park, a nature reserve or a landscape reserve. You called Nõva. According to our data, Nõva and Luhasoo were landscape protected areas before they couldn't be harvested there; now they are nature reserves and they can be harvested there. Could you explain this to me again, either the apparent or the real contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U34	I have just given you this example, where clear cutting was necessary to achieve the conservation objectives of the protected area. I tried to explain that for ten years, 2007 to 2017, the Forest Management Code applied such a provision that only clear cutting was allowed to renew the forest in spruce. At the same time, clear cutting was not permitted in the restricted zones according to this rule; security cutting was allowed. However, the rule said that only clear cutting can renew the forest. It was kind of a trap. It was probably natural, therefore, that this clear-cut provision was then introduced into the protection rules. Today, the situation has changed; the forest can also be renewed by security cutting. I assume that, therefore, the willingness of the drafters to provide for clear cutting in the protection rule should be less than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U35	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U36	Thank you. Good minister! You say that 100 hectares are cuisine compared to the total volume of RMK, but on the other hand, 100 hectares are another example of trying to take down the forest wherever possible. I live in a nature reserve myself. In the past 50 years, there was a security cutting, and this area really looked like a nature reserve. But now when a foreign guest travels to the national park and sees that, wow, there's a clear cutting here, and not because of straws or a semi-natural community, it still seems very strange. As a minister, do you sense that this pressure on the most valuable part of Estonia's forest has increased in recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U37	Thank you. I can't feel it. There have not been any lobby groups telling me that it should change the rules, and I have not asked for any changes to be introduced into any draft rules on protection that have come to my table. These drafts shall be drawn up by experts. I was referring here to one of the reasons why the clear-cut was probably included in the defense code. But I want to stress that we are still talking about a restricted zone. I will now say an additional answer because I may have missed part of Andres Ammas' question, it just slipped my mind. If we look at the introduction of new protection rules, we can see that the direction has recently been such that, as a result of these changes, the restriction zone will generally decrease, the target zone will increase and the restriction zone will decrease. In some cases, the area of the protected area as a whole is also reduced. The restriction zone, as I have explained here, has two objectives, which are not incompatible, and it is foreseen that there can be rational forest management there, subject to restrictions. This is not an area where the forest should not be managed. I suppose that raises a lot of questions, but I think it is the right direction in itself to have fewer restricted zones where this is possible and to have clarity in the house where the target protection zone is. There should be clear criteria. In the case of a restricted zone, the manager has the most discretion, considering whether this is reasonable, whether it is necessary and whether it can be authorised. Looking the other way, the landowner has his own expectations. When he is told that his land is in a restricted zone, i.e. he is not covered by the compensatory mechanisms that are applicable to the owner of the land in the target protection zone, he says that if I have the right to manage the forest here, you must show me in some way that you are giving it to me. In this respect, the situation is much clearer when it comes to a protection zone. Otherwise, the landlord says that this is not a restricted zone, unless you allow me to manage the forest at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U38	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U39	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The Otepää Nature Reserve has been an active debate for many years why private owners are not able to manage their land sensibly. Even here in the Committee on the Environment has been the subject of several public debates. Just before the draft, which provided for a reduction of the felling age of the spruce, began to move this way, the Otepää Nature Conservation Code was quietly amended. This was done in the direction that the second extreme has now been reached and clear cutting has been very active. Can you describe in detail where these proposals to amend the protection rules come from? Who are those who propose to the Minister, and what measures does the Minister take to make his decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U40	In particular, the Environmental Board is the place where these proposals are prepared. I stress, as I have already said here, that all these decisions are going through the disclosure process. They don't do anything in secret or around the corner. The minister initiates, then there is a preliminary debate, then there will be a draft and finally it will be submitted to the government. I have no experience from this half-year or a little longer ministering period that, for example, a particular landowner would have contacted me to see if you could relax the rules or introduce any changes. Of course, if disclosures are carried out at the Environmental Board and landowners are involved, landowners will have their own wishes and claims. They will probably be taken into account where possible, but if not, they will not be taken into account. In particular, the Environmental Board has this competence. I'm convinced that there are professional people there, they do this job all the time. I have no reason to believe that their decisions were somehow biased.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U41	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Any felling is also to some extent forest renewal, but lately there is a tendency to move more towards clear cutting. How do you explain it and explain it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U43	Now, with these tendencies, they have a great deal of emotion and cognition. There have also been claims here in the Riigikogu's remote control that you can see that much more is being cut. We do not yet have the data for 2017, but I dare to predict that the felling volumes for 2017 will be smaller than those for 2016, including clear cutting. Part of the reason for this is definitely weather conditions. But can we say that there has been a huge change of direction? I think we still have to rely on very specific figures and compare the number, not to say that I have, figuratively speaking, been in one forest for twenty years, but if I went now, that forest had been felled. This is the typical attitude on which these views are shaped. I'm afraid I don't have a bill of total cutting here right now, so I've got the numbers of protected areas right here. In the protected areas as a whole, the volume of felling has not increased; rather, it is even slightly smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U44	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U45	Mr President! Dear Minister, You mentioned that it is the Environmental Board that initiates the drafting of the Code of Protection and is also in charge of this work. Is and to what extent the whole process involves the scientific community, especially forest scientists, who we have in Estonia nicely? On the other hand, you have come up very strongly with the idea of initiating the Alutaguse National Park. Has the development of the Alutaguse National Park Protection Code already been initiated or has at least been proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U46	Thank you. Formally, the Minister initiates the establishment or amendment of the Code of Protection, but it is clear that this draft will be drawn up primarily by the officials of the Environmental Board. I am now indebted to the answer on the exact way in which the opinion of forest scientists, whether or not they are addressed individually to them and to universities, is to be found out in the context of both inclusion and disclosure. I admit I don't know exactly how to answer that right now. However, I have read all the stages of publication here, and researchers will certainly have the opportunity to participate if they so wish. I would stress that nothing is going on here in secret. As regards the idea of Alutaguse National Park, the idea is to create it primarily on the basis of the pretty large protected areas already in existence. Rather, the point of this is to bring these areas together as a single national park. In it, both experts and local people see a great opportunity to further promote and promote nature tourism, especially in Ida-Virumaa, where there is a great deal of beautiful nature, which is often not discussed in the context of tourism. For some national parks, this has been better achieved, but for some, probably weaker. For example, we have not been able to promote Karula enough and encourage tourism there, inviting people to areas such as Karula, using this very concept of national park. If we drive around other countries and see the map or see the sign that there is a national park here, it usually attracts us there, invites us. I think that we can make better use of this opportunity for nature tourism in Estonia than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U47	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In answering the previous question, you said that you do not know exactly how to involve scientists, but everyone who wishes to do so can take part in the debate on changes during the coordination round. How do you assess whether the parties' interest in taking part in this discussion and expressing their views has been sufficient? If this has not been enough, is there reason to believe that people may not have information or knowledge that a change is happening? Is there anything that can be done with information, for example, in order to obtain input from scientists, whether this relaxation of the protection regime is appropriate and appropriate for this nature reserve, or whether it should be done differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U49	Thank you. However, I would like to stress that we do not automatically have to relax the regime when changing the protection rule. In the target zone, a condition may become stricter, some areas may be excluded from protection at all, while some areas may be merged for integrity reasons. There is also a great deal of the fact that new areas that have not yet been protected are added to the protected area. If you start looking at these drafts in a row, you will see that there is also a great deal in them. This process is very long and, in order for me to sign or submit to the government, these rules already arrive, as was the case here, in the case of the example that has been initiated much earlier. I think there are quite similar problems to detailed planning, where there is always the question of how everyone interested would get information that a new plan has been launched in their area. One part of this is that, of course, landowners, local authorities etc. will be informed. But how does the interested community get this information? I think these problems are quite similar. What can I say as a positive example? The additional agreement concluded during the processing of the forestry development plan, as well as during the processing of the Forest Act, resulted in further protection of forests in the field of forests and forests. Scientists were very active in the selection of protected areas. All the areas where these protected areas are selected were the very attention of the interested parties, all of which are state lands, the forest areas of RMK. It is clear that it has probably been helped by the fact that enough has been said about it in the press as well and everyone is aware. In my opinion, there has been a remarkable amount of interest and observation in which these protected areas are created. True, the first articles have also come to protest as to why a protected area has been established in the area. There's always another view, people who don't want a protected area. But in any case, it's a positive example, there's been enough attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U50	Since there are no more questions, the Minister cannot answer any more. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U51	Good Chairman! Good minister! Well, didn't convince me exactly those answers. Although only 100 hectares may be mentioned statistically, the real, say, emotional understanding of defence and, for example, the national park is quite different. I'll give you an example from my experience. I really have practically all of those 50 years when Lahemaa National Park has existed, lived there and seen the forest that grows there, still very thoroughly. All this time the forest has been managed there, but never before has clear cutting been used. It wasn't until a few years ago that the clear cutting came in after the defense rules were changed. In short, management has in any case taken place there, either by security cutting or by any other method. If the people I'm talking about nature tourism now come to the national park, our oldest national park, and at the same time see how clear cutting has been done on very large sections along the road or even in the deeper forest, something is wrong with this picture. On the other hand, forest owners are saying more and more that after this amendment of the protection rule took place, there has been a huge pressure on businessmen to buy these forest patches. Clearly, there has been a so-called commercial tendency for protected areas, and rational forest management is starting to move out of there. The big harvesters are here. After all, Harbester does not want to drive long distances, but he wants to work as hard and as efficiently as possible in one area. Even after asking questions, people have told us about their experiences. One rather cynical experience was that on Christmas Eve somewhere in the Kütiorg protected area, the harvester worked completely. Something's still wrong. We might say that we've moved here to the target zone, and we've relaxed a little, but if the National Park allows for clear cutting, it's not right. We'd really like the Ministry to take a look at these things and draw some kind of line here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U52	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate. The minister doesn't want to. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-22_U53	Free mike. It's over. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4.08 p.m.
