ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. I am opening the Tuesday meeting of the 10th working week of the VII plenary session. For us to have a job tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, it is now possible to pass on enquiries and draft laws. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U2	Hello, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure, it is possible to submit inquiries, statements of censure and draft laws from which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs chose the latter. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has therefore initiated a draft law supplementing the Chancellor of Justice's law, according to which the Chancellor of Justice would carry out the tasks of protecting and promoting human rights on the basis of UN General Assembly Resolution 48/134 of 20 December 1993 entitled "The principles of the status and functioning of national bodies for the protection and promotion of human rights'. If this bill becomes a law, and I assume it will, then our Chancellor of Justice will assume the role of the national human rights institution that has been taken to Estonia internationally. The draft is short and understandable. I hope we do this nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U3	There's no more calls. Colleagues, please check your presence. 83 members and 18 delegates are absent. There's also one of the two birthday kids today. Tiina Kangro, congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]] And if you happen to meet Liina Kersna on your way to life today, it's information that she, too, has a birthday. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U4	Today's first item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal to the Government of the Republic regarding the partial channelling of income tax to non-governmental organisations by the taxpayer' draft 589, the final vote of which also requires a vote and a majority of the Riigikogu's membership. Please waitress Arthur Talvik, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U5	President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you today the 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic for the partial distribution of income tax to non-governmental organisations by the taxpayer' draft 589. It is a so-called 1% law, which means that every citizen can direct 1% of his or her taxable income to an appropriate non-governmental organisation. To clarify the matter, I would point out that this 1% is dealt with in several ways. It can also be said that it is one per cent or 1/20 of the current 20% income tax, which the citizen could direct himself or herself. If we look at how much income tax returns to private individuals, it is over EUR 65 million, the amount is close to 70 million. That's the amount of money we're channeling to give people. So what kind of problem are we going to solve here with this law? First of all, it is nothing new, similar so-called "percent laws" are used in several Central European countries. It's kind of a transition. In Italy, for example, there has been a tax on the congregation: people have been able to pass on a percentage of their income tax to their church parish. At present, this possibility exists in Hungary, where it was introduced in 1996. From there it has spread to Slovakia, Poland, Romania and Lithuania, where this method, if you could say so, is used with small variations everywhere. But what problem do we solve with this in Estonia? Above all, so much that I have said quite brutally that a lot of NGOs have to deal with the so-called political thrush. They have directed their face towards the political elite in order for their activities to receive any kind of support: the better you have a political acquaintance, the better the funding will be available to your organisation or your organization's sub-organisation. Perhaps it is problematic to go to local governments or even to ministries to "roof money." Thus, NGOs have, in a sense, become dependent on politicians, and this 1% law could slightly relieve them of this dependence. The second problem is certainly that despite the fact that we have SKYs and all kinds of funds, there is still little financial resources available for NGOs to operate or to fulfil their ideals. Donations as such have remained at the same level for years, there has been no jump. Although the association of NGOs has made a great deal of effort to make more donations in society, unfortunately Estonia has not seen an increase over the years. The political direction is also the opposite: a number of governments have gone this way to reduce the share of the tax refund to citizens in the case of donations as well. All of this leads to a lack of financial means for NGOs to achieve their objectives. The third problem is that we have many NGOs, but the wider public does not know much about their activities. They're sticking to themselves somewhere, writing a project for some kind of fund, getting the money and getting it ready, and then they're gonna pee on. Perhaps they are relatively small and relatively closed organizations. In a sense, 1% of the law would force them to turn their faces towards the people if they wanted to receive support through this 1%. They should inform us more about what they have done and achieved and make their activities even more transparent and public than they are today. Critics have said that 1% of the law is much about advertising, but I say the opposite: not about advertising, but about communicating myself. And that's the deficit, that's the big minus. If you go to the public at large to find out that you name a particular NGO that you know a little bit more about, they're gonna get pretty stuck. Of course, there are people who are themselves active in a number of NGOs, but, more generally, this is a problem. Decentralisation and depoliticisation of financing decisions. On the one hand, I have already mentioned this under the first point, i.e. giving people the opportunity to participate in the budgetary process. It must be made clear here that 1% of the law is not a donation, however. Donation is something else entirely. Donation is when you earn money and decide to give it away somewhere. At the moment, it is a matter of distributing public funds, i.e. that people can provide support to NGOs through an inclusive budget. And I think it could be one of the so-called drugs. We are now told a great deal about the fact that power has alienated the people. One way to bring the people closer to power would be to give him the opportunity to participate in the budget. There's been a lot of talk here about various studies. One Praxis study was conducted about ten years ago. Estonia was then invited to participate in this 1% club. Our association of NGOs, however, took this 1% law very critically. He considered, like Estonian society, more advanced than the societies of the countries where the 1% law was used, and thought that the situation in our third sector was better. But now the Free Party, under the leadership of Kaul Nurme, carried out a thorough analysis of the third sector. What do we see in there? The third sector seems to be doing well: there is quite a lot of money going on there. But when you start to tell the difference between what this money goes to, most of it goes to national foundations and national NGOs or municipal NGOs in terms of its content. Legally or formally, they are all the same NPOs, but in terms of content, they are part of a very clear state, receiving funds directly from the state budget. If you look at the financial side, only one quarter of the money going to the third sector will actually reach the NGOs. And now, if we go to the NGOs, we see that they too are heavily dependent on state subsidies and public donations. Perhaps the money that comes without political decisions, politicians or officials' decisions is very little in this sector. I also have here a proper survey of the size of the countries that use 1% of the law, i.e. Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Lithuania. In 2016, Slovakia also held a major conference on this 1% law. From this point of view, it can be said that 1% of the law has had a good effect on these societies. Originally, it was also one of the starting points raised in the Praxis study that wanted to point out that 1% of the law could increase the proportion of philanthropy in society. In fact, 1% of the law has performed relatively little of this task. On the other hand, the fear that the 1% law would reduce the share of voluntary donations in society was very clearly disproved by this study. The share of donations has not decreased by 1% in society due to the law. And I would like to emphasise once again that 1% of the law should not be considered as a donation or as a tool for learning philanthropy. However, it should be seen as an instrument that makes people think about NGOs that do important things in society and channel tax money towards these NGOs. There are many comparisons here: in every country these orientations have been made with minor differences. We, too, say specifically that parties that are also non-profit organisations should not be subject to 1% of the law. We say that housing associations, who are more engaged in profit-making activities, or run economic activities for a small group, should not be subject to this 1% law. In general, in addition to this 1% law, we want to come up with a number of other draft laws on NGOs. This is only the first step. As a next step, we want to come up with a proposal to really make a difference between NPOs and foundations, which are not NPOs and foundations. It is also one of the ways to approach the so-called state pie cuts. Perhaps there is a problem here: we are talking about the reform of the state and how to reduce the number of officials and the cost of maintaining the state, but in the course of this analysis we saw very clearly how the state apparatus has slowly begun to hide itself in these same national NGOs and national foundations. Even politics has been taken away from the ministries, precisely to those foundations whose names are certainly known here by many. We also want to come up with more tax exemption proposals or give more opportunities to make donations. These options have become very narrow: donation is very often made very uncomfortable and very expensive for donors through multiple taxation. That's where I'm gonna quietly wrap it up. I see some questions have arisen. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U6	Honourable Riigikogu! As this is a draft decision containing a proposal for the Government of the Republic, I will remind you very briefly how we are dealing with it today. The most important thing is that we are discussing this issue and taking a decision at one reading. We have two waitresses. The second is Mr Jürgen Ligi, the rapporteur for the commission. You can ask both rapporteurs an oral question, and then there will be negotiations, which are also a little different than usual. Representatives of political groups and committees can take part in the negotiations. Since this would mean practically every one of us, authorized representatives are probably meant, as was said in the old days. Perhaps these representatives will present the views of a political group or committee. Now the questions. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U7	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good Arthur! As a private individual, I have supported voluntary salvation more than I dare tell my wife how much money has gone into it. But as a small enterprise, I have not done this because it is difficult Perhaps it would make more sense to review the side of how an entrepreneur can support NGOs. And I'm still confused about the principle of money sharing. I can't give public money to a self-related NGO, or volunteer rescue command, of which I'm a member, because it smells criminally. Instead, I'm gonna have to pick some N.P.U. We're gonna believe in Flat Earth Theory or whatever. How do you still see this decision-making principle? I'll pay 1%, but how can I choose or decide which non-profit institution I want to give this money to?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U8	Thank you, Madis, good question! I have the exact same problem. I'm not gonna tell you how much money I've put into voluntary salvation, and not just this. But there's something wrong here. I understand that if there's some sort of national commission you belong to, and you're giving your NGO money, it's wrong. However, if such a system works, it should be normal that you can also support the non-profit institutions that you are a member of, even if you are a member of the board. This should be a perfectly normal process. And that is one of the reasons why we are giving this bill to the Government of the Republic. Such nuances and suggestions for amending other laws are accompanied by a lot of this draft. And this is one of the tools to change mentality. On the other hand, people say, oh, but then people start making NGOs for themselves and putting money in it. Come on, get in the direction! They won't get too much money if they put their money in there and two more friends. They don't have much to do with this money. Because there are some slippers in society, we should not make complex systems that spoil a good idea. Perhaps I think that this 1% law could change this way of thinking in society. A person could direct money to a rescue company of which he is a member. A person could direct money to a village society of which he is a member. What's so weird? This is a perfectly normal process, so let him direct the money there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U9	Before Helmut Hallemaa can ask her question, I will remind you, just in case, that there is a live broadcast on the Internet from this session, which may also be listened to by our close relatives, who I am sure are interested in how we use our family money. Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U10	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I wanted to point out the same thing. But I'm asking you, Arthur, that kind of thing. I myself have been in NGOs, civil society for years, I am also today and I support them with two hands and others. But Estonian society, Estonian state is polarised or very different: we have rich regions, Tallinn, the surroundings of Tallinn and Tartu. I'm gonna ask you this. In so far as the proposed draft reinforces this inequality, which has actually been followed by smaller associations in civil society, is in a very poor state, and to what extent can it solve this problem, or contribute to reducing inequalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U11	Yeah, it turned out really good. This is a problem with which we actually highlight an even bigger problem in Estonia. It is likely that in Põlva County there are significantly more people who virtually do not pay income tax, as the income tax-free minimum is now so high and wages are still relatively low. Perhaps the sums they can channel are considerably lower. Therefore, on the one hand, we rely on patriotism in such a home, for what do we see? So-called summer residents or residents from this place are likely to channel more money, living elsewhere, in Tallinn, Tartu or elsewhere in larger places. That's one side. But there is also another side that might really need a discussion, although it would, of course, make it very difficult. Our goal is to keep it simple. But our own discussions have gone through the idea of maybe putting on the top limit somewhere so that all the money isn't put in one place. And if people still donate more than a limit to some place, you could divide that money regionally into those connections that are farther away from the centers. That's one way. But I will say once again that we want to keep this system very under-bureaucratic, very clear, understandable, basically a computer program that will channel this money so that there will be no huge decision-makers, i.e. officials, once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U12	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U13	Good manager! Waitress! If you look at the list of countries where this is already the case, it turns out that it is purely a bloc of Eastern European countries, where we are missing, Latvia and Lithuania are there. My question is why we want to identify ourselves here, precisely as an Eastern European country. There is no Finland or Sweden here, but there is Latvia and Lithuania. Describe a little about the situation in Latvia, led by the oligarchs. You're saying politicians should pull this opportunity away. How has this successfully been established in Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U14	In a way, we identify ourselves as a Central European country. In a way, we are a transitional country. What am I saying? Compared to our country's old European countries, donation culture is the second and the share of free money for people is considerably higher than we do. It is also said here that we would like to increase the share of donations in Estonian society, but the big problem is that most people live from payday to payday. They don't have the money to donate, they don't have the money. You're stuck behind this stump if people's wages and money buy power don't exponentially rise. Let us be precise, Latvia does not actually use such a system. Lithuania is perhaps the closest to us. In Lithuania, it also started with a church, i.e. how to support church communities. And speaking of Finland, there is a church tax at all, as a result of which community centres are church houses, where there are very many activities that are well funded. That's why Finland doesn't really need this 1% law. There, this'second method' is covered and non-state social activity is therefore well supported. Lithuania is also such a more ecclesiastical state. They were really looking for a way to support church communities, but by now they have moved to support NGOs. I can't remember exactly by heart, but in some part, church communities can still be supported. Our bill also states that church parishes are NPOs. So it's okay to support these church NGOs as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U15	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U16	Thank you. Thank you, good waitress, for this review and an interesting initiative. At the same time, I see that it is mainly about form, about NGOs, and less about the goal that these associations fulfil in society. You mentioned a little in your speech, actually you'd like to exclude housing associations and political parties from this. Perhaps these NGOs should be supported, for example, by promoting local life, some kind of research, providing assistance services to third parties, or people could also refer this 1% to research institutions, such as universities, or medical institutions, such as the maternity department of Põlva Hospital. Do you think such an extension would fit in here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U17	Once again, I talked about national NGOs for a long time. I think that hospitals are the kind of thing that the state has to maintain, let us be precise, let us be clear. It's not a NGO thing. Then there's something very fucked up when we start forming alliances between volunteer delivery recipients, volunteer midwives, and so on. It would get out of hand. On the other hand, it would not be right to prescribe very precisely who we want to give the money to. I think that the idea of NGOs is a kind of self-regulation: they fill up the places where people feel that there are holes in society. It is clear that non-governmental organisations that are national and carry out so-called "public orders" through procurement or other contracts will remain. But it would be wrong to select very precisely who gets and who doesn't get the money, that regulation would go beyond comprehension. We currently have around 2400 non-profit organisations on the list of non-profit organisations with income tax exemption. To get there, you have to go through a bureaucratic process. Such bureaucratic processes we would like to avoid. We would like this system to be very clear on how NGOs get on that list, and so that they do not have to go through some crazy cadets.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U18	Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U19	Thank you, Mr President. You know, I'm listening to what you're saying, and frankly, I don't know if it's just hypocrisy. Your credibility has been badly damaged. In 2015, you were elected to Parliament for the first time. In the autumn of the same year, you complained that the Free Party received only 50,000 euros of roofing money on eight ambassadors, while other opposition politicians received 30,000 in their faces. In 2016, you received EUR 300000 of roofing money, as you call it, and distributed it to 40 objects. Later, that's why your party was in a lot of trouble, as I heard. In 2017 you paid EUR 300000 to NGO Estonian Village Movement Kodukant. And as I heard, you set up a sub-fund a month later, which you began to share with the village movement. Do you not feel that with all this action you are, in fact, increasingly distanced from your words?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U20	Thank you for that fine evil attack! On the contrary, we have consistently explained that the roof money system is wrong. One of the reasons why we came out with 1% of the law is that politicians should not have to buy votes through the roof money system. Such things should be avoided in society at all. Instead, we give the opportunity to the citizens, to the people. Now, if we come to our behavior, the fact that we gave Homeland the money for the roof is a very clear move to avoid political interference in this distribution of money. I'm really sorry you haven't figured that out. But maybe it's hard for you to understand, because you've been in this political system for a very long time, and it's worth looking at things with so-called rigid political thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U21	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U22	Thank you, good vice chairman. A good waitress, how do we define political parties and their connection? Let me give you an example. I understand that the NGO's own Youths are involved in the party. However, if a couple of party members do with a young person who is not part of a political party NGO All Free Youth, how does this gentle border run? Can politicians or just people belonging to a political party belong to the board of an NGO? And what if, for example, the head of a popular MTÜ is elected to a local government council? In that case, does he have to withdraw from the NGO, where he has put his body and soul, just to fit under that 1% so that no one can cynically say that he is now on the council and is already a political person?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U23	Good Tarmo, I don't think you understand the system well. When I talk about the political party, it is a specific NGO in the legal register, which is quite distinct. What kind of an NGO belongs to, including one party or another, is the free choice of every human god. This is the free choice of a free citizen, and it can always be channelled to this NGO by 1%. It's just a question of very wide or coarse brush pulls. Political parties and housing associations wouldn't get that money, and state NGOs wouldn't get it. That's the point. Whether or not you are a member of one party and whether or not you belong to an NGO at the same time, there should be no obstacle to 1% of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U24	Karin Tammemägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! This is a commendable initiative, but my question is this: why does the Free Party send it to the government? Don't you have the strength or the strength to prepare for it? This is a legislative amendment. We are the Riigikogu and that is our job. Take care of it and don't bounce it into the government. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U26	Thank you. Here we come to a bigger debate about how much the Riigikogu has the power to prepare its own drafts. A small group like us could, in turn, amplify this issue. As I said, this bill concerns a lot of other laws, and that is why we bounce it into the government. The government has a device designed to work. Unfortunately, there is not enough apparatus in the Riigikogu. That's why we decided this way. We assume, looking at the number of officials at the ministries, that they have more potential to make a very detailed draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would first like to remind the previous questioner that the Free Party Group is perhaps the only one who, for his part, has prepared a relatively large-scale whole bill in this Riigikogu. However, the starting point for the problem is probably that, in fact, NGOs depend heavily on public funding, either from the government sector or from the government sector, if municipalities and government-related foundations and funds are added. This material, referred to above, says that in 2015, this rate was 141 million, or 65% of the total revenue of non-profit institutions. My question is why this is so, how to change it, and how this relationship of addiction will actually change the so-called character of these same NGOs, perhaps also the psychological climate and activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U28	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U29	Thank you. That's one big problem -- how free are the NGOs, if so rhetorically throwing the question into the air. Regrettably, there has indeed been a pretty large number of institutional NGOs, which are growing. The way in which they can continue to do so depends directly on political decisions. This 1% law is one way to break this approach and give NGOs more freedom, turn the face of NGOs towards the people. Especially in a situation where we can see that the share of donations has not really increased in society, but has been stuck behind the stump for years. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U30	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, I'm taking this opportunity to welcome my husband because he's live. And I'll tell you right away, unlike the previous speakers, the questioners, my husband knows exactly how much I've donated. I don't have fear in that sense. But I also want to ask a seriously interesting question. In particular, is the electoral union, if it is registered as an NGO, running for local elections and formed by people outside the party, political union in your sense or not? It is known that local elections are running for power and decision-making and that electoral alliances are usually formed precisely in order to have those people represented who do not want to join political parties or want to develop on the ground. I myself have been a member of the election union Home Viljandi, not belonging to a party, so I am interested in your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U32	Election associations are primarily associations. We have also tabled a draft earlier on how to channel part of the party's money to the electoral alliances. We have tabled this draft, but unfortunately, it has not gone through to this day. We can still see it as if the electoral alliances are in an unequal position, and their funding system could be even slightly equal to political parties. This would be the place to make the election alliances' lives better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U33	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U34	Thank you. Dear waitress, There is a point 1.3 in your proposal, where you say that the Government of the Republic must develop a regulation that ensures that the sums of money allocated are used legally and transparently. In turn, the Ministry of Finance, which supervises the legality and transparency of the use of funds, will have to restructure its activities. Please give some concrete example of how the Ministry of Finance supervises legitimacy over NGOs whose activities are highly diverse. I'd really appreciate it if you could confintize it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U35	Thank you. That is a good question and, in a sense, a dilemma for us as well. On the one hand, we want this system to have a very low level of bureaucracy. On the other hand, the requirements for these NGOs should mean that they are obliged to put up their annual reports somewhere in public, not just on the register, but on their website, so that people can monitor the activities they have done. This should be reported, but not to the Ministry of Finance, they should report to their donors, to the people who have channelled money to them, or to society at large. That's the point. How exactly do we do that? You're different, but transparency and openness should be principle number one.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U36	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U37	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, I have a little theoretical question for you. It has been said here several times that perhaps political parties should not be included here. I'll give you an example. Recently, there were parliamentary elections in Italy. It was there until 2017 that people could channel 0.2% of their income tax refundable to parliamentary parties. Since 2017, this thing has been closed: political parties are now feeding only on donations, and there is no state support there anymore. What would be the consequence if Estonia had the same funding of parties on the basis of this 1% alone and would not receive this EUR 5.4 million from the state? Would that have a positive effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U38	That would be a pretty interesting solution. But if we start supporting political parties with this 1%, then the public funding of political parties should definitely stop. This 5.4 million should then be worth the 1% of it, in which case this would be a very welcome solution. People would specifically show their attitude towards political parties once a year. It could pinch some pretty hard and be a pretty good reward for some people. It is also one way to turn politics more towards the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U39	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U40	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! NGOs are not very clear about this proposal. Have you involved NGOs in developing this proposal? If so, can you briefly dispel the views expressed by NGOs on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U41	Yes, it is true: especially from this group, who calls itself the elite of the NGOs, there has been a lot of criticism. I'm trying to get past the points they've criticised. One thing they have criticised is that a lot of money is going to go into advertising. Our counter argument is that it is important that NGOs report on their activities and do not limit themselves to making a single report to donors, which is all. The second thing is that it is feared that the share of other sources of funding might decrease. It's a matter of political decision. Our aim is not to reduce other sources of funding, but to create one more source of funding. They have also said that this system competes with donations. It is as if people have the wrong impression: they feel that they are making a huge donation by channeling this 1% of money. But once again, we very much emphasise that this is not a donation or a study of philanthropy, but an opportunity to participate in the direction of the state budget. Rather, it would be an inclusive budget. I suspect there may also be what happens to the thinking of the elite, we know more than others. Perhaps they have the fear that their role in policy making will be reduced. I really hope that's not the case. When you talk to other big NGOs, they really like the system, and they're really looking forward to it. There's one more thing. For example, EMSL fears that local organisations will be supported and umbrella organisations will be given less support. We say that it would be very positive if smaller and medium-sized organisations were to receive support. After all, they would also give the central organisation or umbrella organisation more resources through the membership fee. But obviously it is not safe to think that the umbrella organisation should charge its members more money. It is as if people do not see very far, thinking that then big, general philosophic problems will not be solved, they will be able to solve problems in their own region. We see that this is God's right: if you understand the problems in your area of residence, you will at some point expand your understanding of the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U42	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a very specific question. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft, you note a number of important problems in Estonian society, including controlled democracy. Of course, here's the question: If he's unmanaged, wanders in the dark woods, and he doesn't have a leader, what do you call it? But I'm not gonna pick on you. Please give an example of how this bill, if adopted, would change the direction of democracy into something else. Especially when democracy is run not even from Estonia, but from the outside, such as Brussels or even further away. Mr. Ligi thinks it's being run from Moscow, for example. I would like you to interpret this managed democracy. What is that in your mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U44	Rather, it is the so-called political thrush that I was talking about. This is a situation where an NGO or its existence depends on political decision-makers. If you have good connections with political decision-makers, you will have the opportunity to get better resources. Or vice versa: if an NGO receiving proper support from a national source or from a ministry is well manipulated, i.e. an official, not to mention a politician, says that if you do not agree with this, another or third thing, it is, of course, possible that we will reduce your support. To be honest, we want to destroy or eliminate this system of direct direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U45	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U46	Thank you, Mr President. A very honorable waitress, your presentation, as well as the questions, sounded like we have a bad and incompetent country and a priori very good NGO that should receive money at any price. At the same time, when we look at the local level of life, even there, not all decision-makers may be politicians. You mentioned that politicians should not decide on the funding of NGOs either, but there are, in fact, expert groups on the ground, cultural people, community people, who decide. As far as I know, Estonia is one of the best organized Leader donors in the European Union, who distributes a very large percentage of this money through Leader-MTÜs. Is there something wrong with our democratic system that we want someone to donate for us or make decisions for us, and we do not want to voluntarily donate? At the same time, I also agree that incomes may not have increased because the wages of many have not increased for many years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U47	No, nothing's wrong. We'll make it even better. That is the goal of making things even better. And when you come to Leader, I am also quite critical of it: precisely from the point of view of the fact that many local authorities see Leader funding as part of the local government budget. This mentality is completely wrong. Leader's primary objective was, and still is, the third sector funding, and funding decisions are made jointly by representatives of businesses, NGOs and public authorities. It is regrettable that, when you look at Leader's management boards, I have paid a lot of attention to this in my Leader area, even if the people they belong to represent some NGOs there, they are still at the end of some rural municipality government or some rural municipality organisation when you start looking at the background. This is quite a sad picture: the primary objective in Estonia is not quite well met, it could be done much better. On the other hand, good things have been done for the money from Leader, which I do not argue with. It is a good facility that should not be lost, but there could still be less control or direction of local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U48	Thanks to the waitress! Jürgen Ligi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will give an overview of the discussions in the Steering Committee and answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U49	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission discussed the draft on 20 March and presented it, of course, to Artur Talvik. The President has already introduced procedures that we have a vote and a reading here. The deadline for amendments was set by the Riigikogu Board on 1 March at 5.15 a.m., but no one took advantage of this opportunity. The government does not express an opinion on such drafts. However, in the Commission, the government was represented in the form of Lemmi Oro, whom you all know and who, in his very restrained manner, made comments on the matter, which could be referred to as criticism as an assessment. Through his mouth, we were all assured that NGOs did not support this draft. I understand that the author has shown disapproval for these associations with his use of words, but I can interpret their motives as quite positive on the basis of my present and previous life. I believe that the criticism that sounded in the Commission justifies their motives in all respects. For example, by making discretionary decisions to channel money to themselves, they still deplore the fact that they want more collective and targeted distribution of money. The big question that should, of course, always be asked by the government, as long as there is this current proposal, is that from where does the government know that the rate of income tax must be exactly that if it does not know how to use this money and gives it to someone else? In general, however, those countries that are our role models tend to believe that tax money falls within the remit of governments and parliaments who make decisions on it. Some of the details of the rapporteur's statement, the report first needs to be taken over. The Commission could not find out what the authors meant by national NGOs. Also, this distribution, which the author explained from the remote, does not tend to work in this form, but maybe his story was incomplete. In the commentary on the broad popularity of 1%, those countries that use it are not usually our greatest examples in the regime. It is not about these countries, of course, but about the fact that, although we do not have all the analysis of the implementation of this measure, it still seemed that it is more about the church tax, not so much about the channelling of tax money wherever it is. Congregations are indeed the place where this money has historically or practically gone. The Commission also reviewed the regulations. It must be pointed out that the authors in the Commission did not emphasise that this is not a donation. However, a donation is an analog, which should be described as an alternative. Donations and rights, if not added, are mentioned in § 11 of the Income Tax Act. A natural person may donate 50% of his annual taxable income, but not more than EUR 1200. It is an important principle that there is a ceiling here. And that's his own money he donates, that's even more important. A legal person can donate 3% of the payroll fund or 10% of the profit. This is not about state budget money. However, one of the main features of donation is that the donor bears the burden that may be added to the tax relief under certain conditions. What the authors are offering is clearly a common currency. But common money is generally meant to do social things in a targeted manner and in accordance with public rules, not in an individual's choice. Of course, it is very interesting that the author admitted that this 1% can be interpreted in several ways. Indeed, if we say 1% of income tax, the question may arise whether this is one percentage point or one percentage point difference is five times the difference. If you look at the text of the draft and compare it with the title, it turns out that the difference is five times because 1% of taxable income is spoken of, i.e. not income tax, but income. That's pretty good money. A rigorous calculation says that, in terms of the budget, the question is in the order of half a billion euros, which could be one reason why the government should, however, give its opinion. Obviously, this would not be acceptable in any budgetary sense if the draft were to be realised on a modest scale. And there was the key word for "aggressive budget" from this remote control, and that's when it's decided. The fundamental difference is that the options for an inclusive budget are presented by the elected body, which ultimately confirms the outcome of the vote. He may, of course, delegate it somehow, but these choices are still subject to some development plans and understandable social goals, not to the Lapik Earth Society, which we have proposed here by Madis Milling. His Lapik Earth Society will probably never be able to channel that money. The authors also talked a lot about the fact that this kind of contribution demonstrates the social necessity of NGOs. Rather, however, criticism of this was that it was shown by other things. If you do not bet and there are emotional arguments behind any choice, then it is not so social but rather a personal need. The need for society is announced more through public budgets; public money is distributed through democratic and public procedures. As has been said, tax incentives may be added under certain conditions, i.e. the tax share will be recovered, but the ceiling will apply to it. The point of this detail is that the state does not operate on a public limited liability company principle where you receive a pro rata increase in voting rights according to the amount of your income. No, it's a place where the wallet doesn't measure the thickness. The common fund shall be set up for common purposes and common needs and shall be called a national or local budget. The discussion also attracted attention to the fact that when asked whether, by donating to his sports club, which is a public activity, he could buy supplies for himself with this money, the authors said that this was not a problem. To point out to the Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Commission that the Anti-Corruption Act provides for, at least, operational restrictions in such matters, the channelling of public money to itself. We have also had prominent convictions on this subject. So there is the opposite in the laws in force, and as a rule, such associations that direct money to themselves, their members, are also being taken away from the tax credit. The measure of whether it is a social need is still a list of non-profit institutions that provide income tax incentives. And there has been one addition in recent years: social NGOs, such as disability organisations, are an exception. If the author already uses such a word as'sustainers', he did it in the Commission and here today, it must be said that the labelling of individuals as slippers, whether on posters, in speeches or wherever, is something that should be condemned in the absence of evidence. The word'sustainers' is not used in tax law, because it is always strictly monitored that taxes are not avoidable or combined. This is a general principle of taxation. It is not a question of sussing or suspecting someone in particular, but that such decisions are of economic interest. It is not in the interests of the state that someone is channelling money for their own benefit, and this is about public money. The Commission was also asked about the costs of system management, accounting and monitoring. The answer may have sounded a bit on this board too, but it was said in the committee that it would be ideal to draw up a computer program and, if necessary, to carry out random checks. If such operations are not deplorable, then, of course, the next question is the idea of such control. It also pointed out that a civil society development plan had been drawn up in Estonia and asked how direct allocation of funds would ensure that the target set out in the development plan was met. The answer was that the active NGOs and donations could be more of a protocol says so. I referred to the same thing as to how such a money-sharing could be a better social objective for the budget. In fact, it is about directing the budget money. How is this a better criterion of necessity for society than a collective fund based on a person's choice? This contradiction remained strong throughout this debate on the draft. There was also a talk about a shank-snatch. We in the Commission did not have the strong impression that this would be less of a hoarding than directing national income tax to the draft. Of course, the financial problems of NGOs are a reality. However, the view that the basis for allocating budget money is a political hindrance, which is deplorable, and that money directed to non-governmental organisations automatically becomes non-political and noble, unless it is obtained on the basis of requests, still did not dominate the Commission. In summary, the Commission has taken decisions that you will see the fruits of: this is where the speaker was appointed to speak on the date he is here. I think the rules of procedure are to be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U50	The first question is asked by Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U51	Honourable President! Honourable waitress, sincere thanks for an interesting presentation! But in some places, I began to question myself, my memory, whether you and I were at the same meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that you spoke about. For example, when you said we had an impression, who did you mean...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U52	A commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U53	... besides yourself? How did we get that impression in the Commission? We didn't vote, we didn't do anything there. You understand what I'm implying. You reported the key points and questions and answers in the committee, but you took them for your part now. Is that what you think there should be a good report on behalf of the Commission, or did it just work out like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U54	Thank you. It turned out to be totally natural, deliberately and essentially. In describing this committee sitting, I participated there, I took the floor, and I agreed with the replies and attitudes of my fellow questioners. I also felt the agreement of the Finance Department expert who was in the room. We also had an authorial member of the Commission, whose name I do not remember now, and who did not object to us. Actually, we actually had a discussion with Arthur Talvik. He was not a very passionate objector; he presented rather new facts in support of the views expressed by critics. I cannot argue that the authors have dealt thoroughly with this draft or, for example, with the Income Tax Act. It came out of the discussion, even with that wording. You have said yourself here by the mouth of Andres Herkel that you are the only group to write their own drafts. It's not worth writing sometimes, but you're not the only one. If it is still not clear whether we are talking about one per cent of income tax, one per cent of income tax or 1% of income, as stated in the text of the draft text, then it starts very much. Donations, regulation and the logic of the Anti-Corruption Act, this is a matter of operating restrictions. All of this shows that, in fact, this draft has not worked very hard before. I have exchanged my impressions with those in the room on this subject, and I am not just making my point here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U55	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U56	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I inevitably have two questions, although the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure only allow one to be put forward. One question arises from the statement in your presentation about an inclusive budget. I think you were wrong, and I'm asking what was the basis of your claim. In those places that I know, perhaps Tartu and Viljandi, the opposite is true: the inclusive budget takes into account that there are no developmental things, there could be something more. The second question is due to what you said a little bit: did you have any more details about the fact that 'free association' is not a legal term in Estonia? In fact, we have foundations and non-profit organisations that are not directly related to civil society, but rather economic terms. They're non-revenue-based. Could the solution in the future be to separate them, so that there really are NGOs and other non-profit organisations and non-profit organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U57	Thank you. First of all, I believe that I was not wrong in the use of words. I guess I didn't say things in the development plans, but things that are compatible with them. If you think about Tartu, there would not be a vote on the construction of a bridge, by which the development plan already provides for the bridge, so that we do not have duplications or contradictions in funding. But the remark is correct in itself. Public power simply makes sure that there is no trouble so that popularity does not prevail too much compared to rationality. 'Free connection' is not really a new word there is much to say for a legal term. Not all attempts to make any distinction in the Commission were in fact very thorough. It was said that there were national NGOs somewhere and someone was carrying out different tasks. Ultimately, the rules of public money, the rules of the fight against corruption, and so on, set limits on our tax laws. And we can't operate at random without terms or write laws. [[He's going through the paperwork.]] I don't think we're gonna find a 'free connection' in the text of the law, that's a suggestion. Yeah, if it's in here, it's because it's not a bill, it's a proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U58	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U59	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the content of the draft decision. The title of this text states that there is a need for partial distribution of income tax to non-governmental organisations. At the same time, the text of the draft decision states that 1% of income subject to income tax is intended to be channelled to charity. And the next point concerns the partial distribution of income tax again. Would you explain what you discussed in the Commission and what this final decision is: what are we then taxing, whether income subject to income tax or 1% of income tax? These are two completely different things. How could we even vote in favour of this decision in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U60	Thank you. As I was referring to, there were loose ends in this debate. We briefly pointed out the contradiction, but I don't know how to put it together. It's just a world bigger than the world it's in. I really don't know how to put it together. In any case, such things should not be seriously written into the bill. In the case of 1% it should be stated whether this is a percentage point or a percentage. Either way, we're talking about income tax, but we don't know what they're talking about and how big either one is here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U61	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U62	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Would this draft, if it were to enter into force, allow us to breathe life back into the so-called NASA project? For the people who are watching us through the Internet, NASA meant that the foundations for developing democracy and finding public money for them. According to this current bill, if we had to divide 60 million roughly, there would be something going on there as well. I repeat the question: do you see that it would be possible to finance NASA in the light of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U63	Thank you. It is not quite clear to me what this term means, what you mean, but it was not discussed in the Commission. There was so much to be said that when it comes to supporting the congregations very clearly, which is something whose separation from the country is mentioned in the Constitution, although not in this wording, it is impossible to channel money to political parties in the same way. That'd be a pretty big shot. It is the intention of the parties to act clearly not only in the interests of members but also in the public interest. So there are places to question. There was also a question in this Chamber about the election alliances and we received a reply from the author that he would like them to be treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U64	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U65	Thank you, good waitress, for this review. You referred in your presentation to the Commission as if there was such an opinion that tax money is competent to share with the government and only the government, and the citizen may choose this government, but in the inter-election period he does not have the skills, knowledge and the right to decide on his tax money. Was that a dominant position in the Commission or your personal position? Or is that the view of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U66	Thank you. That was your position and your wording. However, there were no convincing arguments against what was the Commission's overwhelming position, and rightly there were no arguments against it. There was no very strong dialogue because the authors did not respond directly to the criticism. They put forward so-called reflections, which were not a direct argument against the argument, and some new questions arose from the point of view of such answers. So, no, I'm not here for myself. I'm here on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U67	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U68	Thank you. My question relates a little to the previous one. Perhaps you will remember the negotiations of the government coalition at the beginning of 2015, which were also attended by the free parties. Every time one of us used the word pair 'payer's money', you or another member of the Reform Party presented an international fragment that taxpayers' money is only the money that will remain in the hands of the taxpayer after his taxes have been taken from him. This was followed by such enthusiastic laughter among all the government people of that time, the Reform Party. Here's my question. I think you also presented the same philosophical position in principle in this presentation. I ask in this way whether this could be considered to be a right-wing and conservative manifestation of political philosophy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U69	Thank you. In the event that these really painful days were mutilated, no jokes were repeated several times. So you remember wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U70	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The rapporteur of the Free Party Group mentioned in his speech or answers that the share of donations has not increased in Estonian society. Is there any way you can comment on this position? Empirical observations, which are, of course, reflected in the media in particular, seem to suggest that the share of donations and people's desire to give money to different associations for a good cause has increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U72	Thank you. Empiria is not always quite precise, but this claim was made in the Commission and we did not have any alternative data. A bit of a discussion was made about the fact that, if it is clear that NGOs are so socially necessary, it is also necessary to channel public money to them more than to the state budget, i.e. the redistribution of taxes by the fact that the state budget is a political matter, as was repeatedly formulated here, and that the NGOs are something very free. The development of donations itself shows whether citizens think that all NGOs are more socially necessary than public goods made with public money. So that was also the point in the Commission. If this amount does not increase, the estimate may be that some NGOs have not met expectations. But the impression is, yes, that people have a more kind hand than before. I have that impression, too, but it's unscientific.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U73	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I can confirm from the experience of Tartu, where the first inclusive budget was implemented in Estonia, that in fact lists that go to the public will be selected, and precisely according to this logic, that things that are either unrealistic or that do not make sense to be realised in such a form would not enter into it. And it is not just officials who take part in these decisions. But I would like to ask the authors that the proportion of public money in activities is 65% in the middle. Could this be a sign that, in view of the youth of our democracy and in some ways the youth of our society's development, at a time when the activities of NGOs are still taking root, it is important that the proportion of national and social support is higher? It is like part of a natural process and the richer and more conscious society becomes, the more public money may begin to decline.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U75	Thank you. In this form, the Commission did not discuss the matter. I have the numbers in the protocol that in the middle donates 60,000 people and about 3,000 legal entities. I think 3,000 times I've been asked for a donation myself, a couple of times a week. It may be completely, i.e. it is also my impression that charity is a little more balanced: people have started to choose more and think that the questioners are not always very serious or honest. I recently looked in my mailbox for the keyword 'Swedbank' when I wanted to give an example of my personal impression, which is a bit slippery, but the chairman of the committee is a great example for me, because he always tells me about his personal impression and I found a number of schoolchildren who sincerely ask for money to fulfill their life's dreams that I am the one who fulfills their dreams. These dreams contain the words 'Japan', 'Mexico', 'Peru'. I've never dreamed of such things, but somehow they think I'm the one who could fulfill their dreams. It'll make you think a little bit. And that's a real letter list, a pretty tight swarm. At the same time, I made a donation to a fund yesterday, not a big one, which I know they're working for a good cause. But, yeah, I mean, these choices are a little more balanced. People don't give money for everything because there are so many questioners. They understand that not all questioners have serious problems, but rather dreams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U76	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U77	Thank you. rapporteur for the Commission, thank you. I can be proud for two and a half hours that not only am I learning from former finance ministers, but they are also learning from them. I have a constructive question: do you not know if such drafts are subject to some kind of textual control? Let me give you an example. The second, penultimate paragraph of the last page of the explanatory memorandum refers to 2017. When you read the beginning of the sentence, the point is one, and when you finish the sentence, the conclusion is like some other thing. And when you read the second sentence, there's a third idea again. What we're talking about goes in three different directions, 1% or something else. You told me that yourself. The question, however, is this subject subject subject to control?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U78	The Free Party said they're free to control, they're making the bill themselves. And in a way, it's not worth checking out. The state doesn't have to check out the NGOs. But, unfortunately, it is our duty to draw attention to weaknesses and ask questions regardless of our (not) belonging to NGOs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U79	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Representatives of political groups and/or committees shall take the floor. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U80	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! As the report has already shown, the idea we are discussing today is not original. This is not some personal fabrication of free parties in this hall, but a broader approach to how to support NGOs in international practice. In autumn 2016, a conference took place in Bratislava, where representatives of different countries presented their experience in implementing this so-called 1% principle. If anyone in this hall is interested, I would be happy to share with you some information about the presentations at this conference. I did some research, and I selected a Hungarian representative from the presentations to introduce you. It is on this principle that in Hungary it has been practiced for the longest time since 1997, perhaps for just over 20 years. I'm sorry to use a lot of bills in my speech, but I hope you'll be able to follow. Before the law came into force, in 1996, some 6700 NGOs received public support from Hungary. They were added in the following year 2000, which received public support but also to whom the citizens headed their 1%, and immediately added another 6400 to whom the citizens directed their share of income tax. And so the process continued. So this 1% channel option did not replace previous other subsidies from the state or local authorities, but extended the range of beneficiaries. While in Hungary, 95% of the NGOs supported by the State were large, 4% were medium and 1% were small, the citizens directed their income to them in such a way that 34% of the large, 50% of the average and 16% of the small NGOs received support. I think this is very important. You see, it is convenient for public authorities to set up non-profit organisations and foundations alongside themselves, to call them their partners festively and to reduce the number of public officials apparently, but in fact it is a bit of a fraud. And, of course, it is more convenient for a government institution to communicate with one large partner than with many small ones. But the fact that smaller NGOs also benefit from this principle has proved to be the case. It has also been said whether this principle reduces the amount of money that is generally donated. This was not the case in Hungary. In 1997, NGOs received donations for a total of EUR 25 million. By now, 20 years later, the volume of donations has increased four times, to about 100 million, plus 25 million so-called 1% of the money due to the law. So the volume of donations hasn't narrowed it down in any way. For what purpose was it donated, and was it done wisely? I don't know exactly how to decide this from here, but I can bring out the areas for which and how much was donated. Of the total, 38% went to health and social affairs, 23% to education and science, which was also mentioned in this Chamber today, 10% to sport, 14% to environmental organisations and 7% to culture. In numbers, this relationship was a little different. Sport associations emerged: one in four 1% of the income from the law was somehow related to sport. Alongside all these examples... Can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U81	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U82	... I would also like to express a bit in the last few minutes the personal view of why I find the sympathetic principle proposed by the Free Party Group. You see, this undoubtedly increases independence from political parties, independence from public funding, independence from local budgets. That's the so-called mentality difference. I've noticed one thing not only in this hall, but actually for decades. There are many economic leaders, heads of institutions, local governments and cultural leaders who love to say'my hospital','my school','my theater','my Narva','my Jõgeva','my Pärnu' instead of 'we'. 'My' can be said by an alumni who loves his school and says'my school', or a home patriot who says'my city'. But in this mentality that I deplore, there is something Boyar, such a top-down, monarchic approach that I know what's good for my people. So, in my opinion, today proved to be appropriate for an inclusive budget as a parallel. The inclusive budget has indeed been used in Estonia as a good example of Tartu, later also in Viljandi, Kuressaare and Haapsalu, and certainly in dozens of other places. Yes, there the council will intervene a little and make sure that budget money doesn't go somewhere stupidly, but even the original ideas on which choices are made are collected from the citizens. To attract citizens to participate, to talk along, not to wait for mercy is a very sympathetic principle in itself. In my opinion, this relates a little to the question that we have discussed in this Chamber in relation to the state budget. Is it also the competence of this hall to decide on its content, or do we delegate it only to the government? It's a little bit of the same principle here. Do we think that politicians are gods, God's replacements, or God's chosen ones, who know where to channel money wisely, or do citizens know that, too, who must be able to decide where the right money is to be directed? Just as we prefer the debate on the state budget in this Chamber, not just to delegate to the government or lobby among ministers to get our own piece of tea or a sports building, the Free Party will also support an approach where citizens can have more say about which NGOs will receive support. Indeed, international practice shows that citizens can be trusted with this money in no way go empty or thoughtlessly anywhere. Believe me, this money goes to them very appropriately, we can trust our citizens here. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U83	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U84	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! Good coworkers! I also trust the citizens and their good instincts, but for some reason I don't trust the authorities, the experience of the local government is this. I also recommend to the Free Party one good thing that I noticed in Tallinn City Council for eleven and a half years: when you saw that you were creating a monster for good intentions, you had the opportunity to withdraw the bill from the City Council. From the current list, which does not fall under it, I can see that, for example, central television as such is entirely justified. I don't want to go on talking about legal nuances about how the city can still put money in there. I recall the NGO's Honourable Elections, which should actually be known by a number of people in the Free Party. According to this bill, it's a really tough one. I also recall NASA, the foundations for democracy development. Each active person is active and here each of the 101 active people are involved in a number of non-profit institutions. There are a couple of non-profits in the back pocket that have been operating for two or three years. Now, when we talk about getting known to this or another NGO in the form of an advertising campaign, it's really the one who is able to present his ideas that wins this race. Those NGOs who cannot and are not sufficiently familiar with their activities cannot expect equal treatment. So we're creating an advantage for the lyrics, which means that NGOs are going to hire lyrics with their money. Our actors get a lot more work. They say the Red Apple Põske MTÜ is waiting for your help because today is the day of the heart. Be good people and think about your own 1%! The red apple cheek only thinks to your children that their heart will be in the end in decades to make it work. We're in a strange situation where the Health Insurance Fund screams, but we don't get that sincere Christmas feeling in us at Christmas. From time to time, it's still embarrassing, and you turn off the TV, because again they ask for help for one, another and a third thing that the state cannot handle on its own. And then there's those hideous stories about all this. I had a completely different view of Christmas when they were held in Lasnamägi behind the thick curtains. This draft does not fix where it is political parties and associations associated with them, and from where they are not. At the moment, it is extremely simple: two members of two political parties are doing any NGO together and it will serve the interests of these two parties. In my opinion, we should review the way in which they are collected now in the case of donations. I think the Lens is dealing with unethical extortion from the old people, sending them regular letters that if you don't make a financial donation now, something monstrous will happen. I think that all members of the Riigikogu have already seen these letters being extorted, according to me. Of course, we want to talk about the fact that world-view positions are actually being promoted, that other positions are being defended, and that funding is already coming. But what I'm saying is, this bill doesn't make anything better in my eyes. However, it gives speculators and other people the chance to start a storm run: if it is processed for another year, a large number of NGOs will be registered tomorrow. The quote from "Arabella, daughter of a pirate": "Maybe Kanakui Aadu is right, maybe he'll make more money with good. ' Unfortunately, I do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U85	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U86	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft itself concerns two serious things that we could really talk about more about. The first is essentially how a citizen can participate more in the way things are organised, including tax policy, during the inter-election period. Indeed, in many countries there are mechanisms that can channel a part of a person's personal income tax to organisations of a certain kind. Often they are NGOs, often they are universities, often they are research institutions. They are institutions that act in the interests of the common interest with a view to improving people's lives together or helping someone. They can deal with something strategic or something that is important to a small community and perhaps supported by others who do not know that it exists. For example, Antsla village society is very, very important to the city of Antsla. So I'm talking about the kind of things that all the people there might want to support. It is, in itself, a subject that should certainly be discussed. As we have heard from the debate and read from here, this draft is very narrow: it seeks to define only certain types of NGOs, NGOs. Probably even leave the movement out of it. So there are questions of this kind. This gives the impression that there is an attempt here to make a favorite law for a very narrow target group, which in itself is not a good course, although it is certainly worth discussing in greater depth. The second fundamental problem is indeed what is the question of a political agreement: which part of the income tax to be paid is the non-taxable income, as already mentioned above, and for what kind of purposes a person could direct himself. This is an issue that we should argue clearly in this Chamber and in the committees and then give the government a decision to enforce. This is not really something the government should do. That's something we should be doing here. Yeah, really, it's complicated. The fact that the government has so many ministries and we don't even have one advisor per person is disturbing our work. But that doesn't mean it's impossible. I propose that my fellow Members take this hasty proposal off the agenda, but go on with this work in substance. We prepare a proper bill without letting the government do the work that we do. After all, we are the legislators. Let's not give up on ourselves! This bill is a bit of a surrender and such surrender cannot really be supported. But the idea is good, so let's keep talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-03_U87	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments have been tabled for draft 589. Since this draft will only be discussed at one reading, we will have a final vote in a few minutes' time. Honourable Riigikogu, since the adoption of draft 589 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of the presence. There are 32 members of the Riigikogu. Nevertheless, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic regarding the partial channelling of income tax to non-governmental organisations by the taxpayer', draft 589. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 votes in favour and 14 against, with two abstentions. Remember, in order for the bill to be adopted, at least 51 members of the Riigikogu should have voted in favour of it. Consequently, the draft 589 did not find the support of the Riigikogu and falls out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a good day of work. I'll see you in this hall tomorrow at 1:00. Closure of the sitting at 11.54 a.m.
