ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Honourable guests! We will begin the second Tuesday session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U2	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will submit to the Riigikogu two draft decisions relating to the change in the composition of the Riigikogu. Namely, we have the first proposal to exclude the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from the Estonian delegation Eerik-Niles Kross, who is no longer a member of the Riigikogu, and to appoint Urve Tiidus as a member of the delegation. It's a bill. And the second draft concerns the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, from which we propose to exclude Urve Tiidus as an alternate member and to appoint Mati Raidma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Now please check your presence! 67 members of the Riigikogu are present, 34 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. Let's start with the Chancellor of Justice review. I will show you the procedure for discussing this item. First, the Chancellor of Justice's review will be up to 20 minutes, and the questions will be followed by a waitress. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Only the representatives of the political groups may speak in the negotiations. Please, Chancellor Ülle Madise!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U5	Honourable Riigikogu! Written overview of the work and activities of the Chancellor of Justice in the last year of review, i.e. the period from 1 September 2017 to 31 August, has reached you. This brings together the most important results of all the work of the Chancellor of Justice. As usual, the result of all our work on what the law allows and requires to be published is available on our website. All sections of work are, in my view, important and cannot be viewed differently, from checking the constitutionality of laws and regulations to monitoring surveillance activities, checking visits, promoting children's and young people's rights and much more. That is why I am not going to stop at these areas one by one. We already discussed a lot in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and that was a good debate. I would rather point out some general developments and generalisations of the work of my own administration. And, of course, I am most happy to answer your questions as best I can. Our entire administration is pleased that so many things have been resolved in the last accounting year. The way we see it is that it succeeded in making Estonia better. Well, that's what gives our hard-working lives meaning. Much has been done in cooperation with you, good members of the Riigikogu, and thank you for that. Every day I keep making sure that the Chancellor of Justice's powers and powers have been put together with the Constitution and other laws exceptionally cleverly and suited to a small country. This is good because it is possible to help people effectively. This is important both for us and for the people of Estonia at all. Now that the fundamental reform of the administration has been carried out, I can assure you, in peace of heart, that with the same number of people, we and actually believe that practically every other institution can do more, faster, and I believe better. Have we succeeded better, that is decided by others, above all by you, honourable members of the Riigikogu. I hope that one of the fundamental principles of the activities of our administration, well illustrated by the good sentence of the lawyer Rudolf von Jhering, 'Jurist must think like a philosopher and speak like a peasant. " becomes attached to others as well. We will deliver it in Estonia and among our colleagues abroad. We do not tire of stressing that a clear message, frank and kind speech, does not diminish the value of the official text. On the contrary! There is no need for excessive political correctness, whether it is a judgment, a statement from the Chancellor of Justice or a prescription from a supervisory officer. To sum up this year, I would very much like to thank all the officials who have solved people's problems quickly and well. I would like to thank the ministers and members of the Riigikogu who have understood the problems and put them on their shoulders so that Estonia can be better. This reasonable cooperation has promised to avoid overburdening the courts, but most importantly, it has kept the peace of mind of the Estonian people. Last year went largely under the post-administrative reform of local government law. On our own initiative, we checked the regulations on social services. And unfortunately, the problem is that not all cities and municipalities understand what their task is to help members of their community has been solved. There were also many problems with other regulations. But what is important is: we see that very many municipalities and cities really care about their community and work as hard as they can to support their people's lives better. And they deserve real recognition. So much for what's good. I guess we get gratitude and joy in the house, but, unfortunately, mostly worries. 'Good country, let live and be honest! " prayer seems to be behind many of the appeals that have been sent to us. And it is, in fact, known that too busy restricting people's lives will inevitably cause protest. It's human. In the same way, it is human that you, honourable representatives of the people, are also being openly called for new standards and restrictions, penalties, of course, in the hope that this will make a difference to other people around you. And isn't disappointment inevitable when it turns out that in the process of restricting, banning and commanding it, one must change itself. This is not going to improve until we can be a little more attuned to the imperfections of our neighbors. Sometimes I think that maybe there is too much talk about rights and much less about everyone's primary responsibility: to count other people around me. Of course, this does not mean that everyone has the right to be offended at the heart of any word, or to think that all other people must live by his tactful rod. No, not that. But human cohabitation, for the most part, does not require public intervention, but simply reasonable consideration for one another and, among other things, recognition of the imperfections of one's fellowman, reconciliation with it. What is important together, hugely important, is that Estonia has a common value area in large part, that we can keep this one country in the spirit of the Constitution cool, kind and logical way of life, Estonian language and culture, peace and well-being. Estonia's idea is to be a small copy of Estonia, not of a large country. Honourable Riigikogu! We are very pleased that the issue of end-of-life dignity has risen to the heart of the public's attention, thanks to your support. I hope that there will be more skills and more money every year to help those in need. However, it is also a matter of attitude. Decent ageing is often supported by small changes that can be achieved by all. I'll give you an example. A letter of concern came into the house, and more specifically when I opened up that supplement, I ran into a nursing home contract. It was a shock, it'd be a shock to you, too. These agreements refer to the 'exclusion of a customer from a nursing home' or 'the obligation of the customer to relocate the recipient of the service when the contract is terminated'. Identifying the needs and wishes of an elderly person is called a "car service" term! For example, such a contract point describes the relationship of an elderly person with the employees of a nursing home: "It is forbidden to bother workers. " According to some contracts, the nursing home staff have three working days to inform the loved ones of the nursing home's death. Three working days! Think about Christmas and New Year's Eve! At the same time, I understand, of course, the workers in nursing homes who do this extremely hard work, and very many with a great deal of commitment. It is not only in nursing home contracts, it is also against administrative legislation, the precepts of all the printouts that many people see when they ask the state to do something. But they're just letting something out of the database that's mistaken for an administrative act. This is where, together with the Institute of the Estonian Language, we can probably put things on our own to make things better. Good people's representatives! I would also like to share with you some observations about the rule of law and constitutionality of Estonia in general and ask you, if you share my views, to grab the bull by the horns. Last year, I think it became impossible to overlook the extremely brazen divergence of words and actions in legislative policy. It is far more dangerous to the authority and credibility of the state than it seems. People who work at our homes can see that there is one thing being spoken with a loud voice, but there is another being done. You also know the great slogan 'Let's reduce the volume of legislation! '. Unfortunately, all the replacement activities and the hypocrite are still working on full tours. It would probably be naive to expect it to stop before the euro money for replacement activities runs out. For one campaign, money was sought to write the laws together, and then to write them apart again. But what's more, this whole thing is covered in cynical, exactly the opposite slogans. In my opinion, the legal order is now knowingly being written in a more confusing way. Inevitably, you begin to ask whether the lawyers are getting thin or what has happened. There are many examples, one last for illustration. A month ago you received a bill with a very festive name: the draft law on the prevention of unfair competition and the protection of business secrets, 678 SE. According to the draft, unfair competition will be removed from the competition law where a person can search for it. The term 'fair competition', which is rooted in Estonian legal language, is intended to replace 'unfair competition'. And there are also a number of other changes, undoubtedly reducing the volume of legislation, such as the word 'in case of' is replaced by 'in case of', etc. All of these are reflected as amendments to the State's Official Journal. The Supreme Court also doubted the need for these changes. The Supreme Court received a snappy message in response. I quote: 'Following the rules of the Estonian language is a priority, but we certainly cannot, for a long time now, rely solely on national rules, including linguistic rules, for the development of the legal order. " I wonder what language rules should be used when writing in Estonian? Do we really change the terms in our native language simply to quote ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? bring it more into line with the English language (unfair competition) '? In French, by the way, there is still a concurrence to déloya. There are other nations who are not ashamed of their mother tongue. However, the main question is still: has this draft now reduced legislation and increased legal clarity? Did this just apologize! What was the inevitable need to be weirded out? By the way, the deadline for transposition of the directive on the protection of business secrets expired at the beginning of June. An infringement procedure has been initiated against Estonia. The clarity of the rules requires each of us, especially where the rule is directly prohibited and where the violation of the prohibition is threatened with punishment or loss of the legal good. As has been said, the secret language of lawyers does not give rise to awe long ago! Rather, it creates distrust, powerlessness, and anger. Honourable Riigikogu! It is in your power to put an end to replacement activities in the legislative process, whether euro money or not, to demand clear norms, beautiful, clear Estonian and reject unnecessary ones. There is another stage of hypocritical waste. This is not what I would tell you otherwise, if the Riigikogu itself had not made this government compulsory by its decision in 2011 just before the elections. It's called a plan to develop, VTK. Hell's road is paved with good intentions. The idea of the VTK was very correct: to determine whether there is a problem or whether any development option is, what are the different options, their advantages-minus, the desired effects, unwanted negative side effects, to inform the people who will be affected, to listen to their opinions and then to make one considered decision. In other words, if the ITC finds support for the state, yes, state intervention is necessary, it is necessary in this way, that is, the draft will be made. It has now turned out to be that all the changes that really affect society are made without any VTC and often without impact analysis. And this is how the Riigikogu's decision violates what was given. In my opinion, there are now two options: whether the government is being required to comply with the rules on plans for development or whether the VTC is being abandoned, but it is being ensured that every important draft, as has been said, does not have to come before you or should have an impartial impact analysis based on facts and their scientific link. When people feel that laws and courts no longer protect them, the result is exclusively ugly. There is another sad trend in the Estonian legal order. In fact, there is a tendency to get the impression that 'is human, we will find an article'. I am not going to talk here about the interaction between the Penal Code and the Law Enforcement Act, according to which I do not know how many people are aware of it, it is possible to call the police in practically every situation for disorder. For example, let us talk about defining operating restrictions. It is not clear whether the action limit applies or not. It is now assumed that each person must be able to interpret for himself whether his actions are prohibited or permitted. He won't find an answer to that question in the norm or any explanation of the norm. However, if the possible consequence is punishment, the person must know what is allowed and what is forbidden. I understand, of course, that many crimes are very difficult to prove, but this does not justify the vague penalty rules under which almost everyone can be held accountable. We must not even allow the impression that the organs know who needs to be punished. A few words before the election. Estonia's thinner plan is at risk of losing what has been won. This applies both to social safety nets and governance arrangements. Here too, the contradiction between the slogans and the results of their possible realization is obvious, at least to the expert. We have all heard the objectives: we strengthen the Riigikogu, give the people power back, etc. In fact, these plans, which I have seen and heard about, would lead to exactly the opposite result: a weak Riigikogu, a blinded nation, an economic power rendered into political power. It'll probably be like a light in the night swamp for a lot of people, but from history, we need to learn not only what happened but also what could happen again. I think the most important and groundbreaking change would be that every state-paid person every night of the working day would ask himself what he did that day for Estonia, whose problem was solved, whose life was improved. If there is no specific answer, the person is not on the right job or does not need the job at all. Vello Salo said well: "The holiday is not the one who does extraordinary things, but the one who does the usual things exceptionally well. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U6	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your report. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U7	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! We have achieved one victory in the area of what could be called 'taking occupation damage to the neck of the Estonian state'. Churches will no longer be thrown away by passing the budget on the pretext that the state must compensate for its own occupation. But there are more. For one thing, I would congratulate the Minister of Justice, it concerns the VEB Fund, and the other is, for example, the forced tenants. Both issues, as mentioned first, are being used as political malanas in the political fight. They're looking for guilty people, they're pointing fingers, but they're clearly another country. Tell me, don't you consider this trend to be a legal problem? For example, the billing of competitors under the auspices of the Committee on Legal Affairs is ongoing, so the basic value of the Estonian state is actually lost: it is legitimacy, it is legal continuity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U8	Legally, I think that's a problem, of course. However, I do not know how to judge political tricks and ways of doing things.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U9	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U10	Thank you. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your presentation and for their attention. But I wanted to ask you, a little bit along the lines of Jürgen's question, if you look back at the last year or a half. You also mentioned in your speech some observations that some areas of legislation require the attention of the Riigikogu more than some other areas. Of course, the social sector is also important, but the role of this Chamber is primarily to be responsible for legislation. If you look at legislation, what do you think are the biggest mistakes or problems of the last year, which we should pay more attention to in the Riigikogu? Is this maybe a tax reform? The manifesto of employers that has just come out says that the tax changes were made to us precisely without the VTK you were talking about. Or is it an excise policy or a church money bill? What, in your opinion, is the biggest omission that the Riigikogu should take into account in its work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U11	Thank you very much. Of course, in the role of Chancellor of Justice, I must distinguish between policies based on a world view. I do not have a mandate to intervene in this; you have a mandate, representatives of the people. But I can talk about compliance with the Constitution in setting standards and good practices. And, of course, the problem is not to resolve constitutional situations quickly and on a firm hand. Speaking of good, today is finally a draft that, if adopted, should solve the problem of people living in a nursing home. These people have been left without the necessary help, without the necessary aid, precisely because they live in a nursing home and do not lie, are not schemed. I thank the Committee on Social Affairs very much for this work. And very much has been done by the committees, in cooperation with the people of our administration, in such a way that it may not stand out to the public. It delights me in the sense that I also consider it my duty to reduce tensions in society where it is possible to solve things, to prevent problems. It seems to me, and I hope that you will also see it, that it has succeeded in many things. So this precise reflection of constitutionality and the questioning of no matter how many questions I think are very much in place. Now, the second issue is drafts, which may not be necessary or which are incomprehensible. If I may suggest to you, the Riigikogu could even boldly impose itself, i.e. not to be dictated by the pace of the procedure of the drafts, to take the necessary time, not to allow things to be packed that are not inherently part of each other, and then to make bold decisions. One example of my speech here was this bizarre concept of the protection of business secrets and unfair competition by embarrassing my mother tongue into English, but there are other cases. The Personal Data Protection Act can be used as an example from the time before the summer holiday. An extremely important topic, exactly the subject that needs the weighted position of the Estonian representative of the people. There are a lot of different questions since the biography books describe their fellows (whether consent should be or not be consenting), the freedom of the press, of course, which rose very strongly to the fore in a somewhat awkward approach. And there too, you can see how much trouble comes from using a failed term. After all, the term 'overwhelming public interest' is an ancient, crude translation from the Austrian media code "Überwiegendes Interes'. Actually, it's "overweighing interest." What this means is that data about a person can be disclosed if the legitimate interest of the public in learning outweighs a person's interest in not finding out. But you see, the word "overweight" makes a person who doesn't know German inevitably think that the public interest must be above the heights of the mountain. So, on the one hand, the Riigikogu made the right correction, given what is stated in the general regulation of data protection, but on the other hand, it was overlooked that this erroneous, crude translation of its time triggered tensions in society that were not needed at all. I hope that answer was more or less the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U12	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In your speech, you also mentioned the reform of the municipality, and I had the impression that one of the problems that must be dealt with seriously is the legal capacity of the municipalities. After all, in your speech there were thoughts about justice and the values on which lawmaking could be based. But have you also come from the people who wrote to you in writing a great deal, where people have complained about the injustice of the sense of justice based on political decisions in this Chamber? One of the things I've known about complaining has been the loss of a husband's joint declaration in the way it was. And secondly, as you referred to in your speech, the easy, clear, understandable state is the opportunity to develop freely. But what's going on around the Income Tax Act and declaring income tax has really pissed people off. Have you received any such letters?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U14	Thank you! Inevitably, yes. Everyone, even the political change, even if it is constitutional, and even when it is clear, is displeasing for those whose situation is getting worse. And because these quite large tax changes were not properly considered or more precisely, their implementation could not be properly considered, we have indeed received a number of appeals. For example, a single-living pensioner's allowance. It has come out how many problems there are in the population register. It is not because pensioners living alone want to deceive the country, it is because address details have been given wrong and sometimes they are not corrected as quickly as necessary. At the same time, I would like to commend all those who have made corrections to the first intervention of our administration, even by telephone, and have received their money. There are cases like this. But, for example, there have been a lot of letters about the support of the same single-living pensioner. Now, indeed, the progressive tax exemption has caused problems. The problem is that some people do not understand pension taxation. Especially little is understood, for example, when calculating the tax-free minimum of pension income received abroad. But these are cases where the law itself is constitutional. It is a choice made under the mandate of the people and our task is to clarify and, if there is a mistake in the implementation of the law, to give advice on how to correct the mistake as soon as possible so that human rights are not undermined. It is true that ex-people are accustomed to a very simple income tax system and declaration, and now, inevitably, it is up to the people to decide, of course, and the Riigikogu to decide how things are going to go on, it needs to get used to the fact that they have entered a much more complex system. It is not against the Constitution, it is a political choice, good or bad, it is not mine to say. But for all those who complain that the system is now very confusing, I say to comfort you that now we have the same way we have it elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U15	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U16	Thank you. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for a very thorough review. I have a question, too. If you read this year's review, it also discusses the so-called end-of-life arrangement, the right of a person to pre-phrase his own will into situations where he can no longer express his own will. So far, there has been organ donation, but more and more consent is being sought to continue treatment, etc. Can you comment on this more accurately?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U17	Thank you very much. This has also been the subject of meetings with the political groups, and this is a really important and very sensitive issue. We have received a huge request from notaries, doctors, and people themselves to make it possible for a person to make this thoughtful provision independently. At present, the legal order does not really allow this. Such orders have been fixed at Notar, they have been sent to hospitals, but, of course, they are probably not guided by the fear of criminal punishment. We've been told not to be guided. The final solution to this problem requires a well-considered decision by the Riigikogu, which is stated in the law. There are a lot of ethical, religious, health care, family issues that need to be discussed. And, of course, when making such an arrangement, a person should never even be in a seeming compulsion. It can be a deeply thoughtful, very personal choice of a person's own. But, yes, right scientists today rather think that human dignity should include the right to give such orders.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U18	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U19	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, Chancellor. Thank you for this conclusion and for the strength of you and your department. I will address a subject that we also discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and which your presentation also covered. This is a conflict of interest or breach of an operating restriction, which is dealt with by the Anti-Corruption Act. Corruption is bad, and it must be fought. That's one side. You were very right to say that it should be more precise and more clearly fixed. How would you see that? And the other half of the question: control the side. We are very many council members of the local government councils, and we are appointed by the councils of companies as a representative of the city or rural municipality. And we are also members of many schools, hobbies and many other places. So there may be a situation that we cannot do anything on one side or on the other. Shouldn't this be more clearly enshrined in the law? As far as verification is concerned, we are submitting a declaration of interest, we are submitting a declaration of the data of the persons involved, they are all available and public. Shouldn't it be controlled by city-municipal secretaries who are very high-level legal officials and also sit on councils? Yes, you must know the law, but it is often very difficult for even a knowledgeable person to understand what is then acceptable and what must not be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U20	Thank you, excellent question! Yeah, that's it. If a person is threatened with punishment and, more importantly, with the condemnation of a bad act by society and loved ones, he must be aware of what the bad act has been about. It is a very clear and historically considered principle in legal philosophy that one good norm is understandable, which the oppressive majority of the community is willing to voluntarily comply with because people understand why it is needed. And compliance with the norm must be verifiable and verified in practice. There is generally no point in making other standards. Indeed, the penalty rule, for which it is not possible to understand exactly what is allowed and what is prohibited, even if there is good will, does not have the desired effect in society. The effect may be rather undesirable. For example, some people in places where decisions need to be made, risked, are sidelined. Or there's a sense in society that if you're a politician, such as a member of a council or a member of a city or parish government or an official, it's natural that a little smell of corruption goes along with it. That can't be. I am deeply convinced that most people rightly consider corruption to be deplorable. That's what's deplorable. And people would want to do the right thing, but they can't. So the suggestion is that indeed these standards become so clear that people know what is forbidden and what is allowed. You're very right to have someone to ask. If the Estonian Tax and Customs Board has instructions that are true, if there is no dispute over them, then perhaps it would be good to sum up and write down meaningful practice. The parish and city secretaries will then be able to look up there and give their people sound advice. But this situation, in which a person is extraordinarily restrained and frightened in the interests of his own municipality and city, does not seem to me to be in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U21	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U22	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, as a member of the Social Affairs Committee, for your very professional and constructive cooperation. But my question concerns the analysis you referred to, in which you examined whether local authorities provide citizens with statutory social services. I'm curious what those results showed. How many local governments do they not have due to objective reasons and how many are they obsessed with attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U23	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, in this case, it is going to open up for quite an official constitutional review. The municipalities and cities that do not provide social welfare services to people to the required extent, whose regulations are contrary to the law, are all at once, and we now have to deal with these cases officially and resolve them. The problem is, firstly, that cities and municipalities have not understood that this community and those in need are now their responsibility. The state does not give out money measured with specific labels for this work; the money is in the local government's income base. It has been asked whether it is possible to foresee exactly how much the next year the Social Welfare Act will cost for the provision of services in the city or the municipality. The answer is no. I understand the difficulties involved in budgeting, but it is up to us to enforce the law. And people have to get these services. When you ask what are the typical errors in the regulations, the basic point is that it is not about what a particular person needs, but about trying to lay down some formal rules. For example, that you can use social transport once a week, that is, you can get a job, but you can't get back and other restrictions like that. They're illegal, and that's what we're arguing about. I am also extremely grateful to you when you explain in your councils, in your municipalities and in your cities that it is precisely the sighting of those in need, the finding and offering of suitable assistance to them that is the essence of the municipality, that is what must be done. And if there is really a lack of money for objective reasons, then that is the problem that must be brought here to the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Finance and resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U24	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Very esteemed Chancellor of Justice! I thank you and your authority for the very good work they have done, but even more I would like to congratulate you always for the very understandable and clear yet very professional use of words. I think that all people in Estonia understand what you are saying. However, this really cannot be said, as you referred to in your report, about our legal language. I have graduated from the University of Tartu a long time ago, but I dare say that today's legal language is at least twice as complicated, at least twice as difficult to read as it was when I went to the university. And above all, it has to do with the transposition of European Union law. You also knocked on our conscience so that the Estonian language could dominate more, but at the same time I do not really see a mechanism here that could actually change or improve this situation. All the more so because we also know that it is often the case that if we do not translate these terms into Estonian, we will be accused that we have not transposed the directive alone. What is the mechanism that could help?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U26	Thank you! That's a nail on your head again! However, I would argue that the preservation and development of the national language in translating the basic documents of the European Union is also the right and duty of each Member State. I know, of course, how the correlation tables for the transposition of these directives are drawn up in practice. In the European Union, too, there are regrettable people who think that we need to look at the form, not the content. And if anyone has found that the Estonian Riigikogu has not taken over the directives very well, it has not done its job properly, and this person will come and say that you will see that you have some 'quiet competition' here, translate differently! Absolutely possible! But that doesn't mean we're allowed to squirt our own native language. It is important to remain firm, to take account of our legal order, to make the best choices ourselves, and to make it clear to the European Union as well. I'm pretty sure it's possible. I will, for example, bring a law with the same festive name as the one referred to, which is essentially part of competition law, but when you are there, you will no longer belong to the law where people can look for it. The directive on the protection of business secrets since 2016 has, by the way, been very nicely translated into Estonian, and there is a 'fair competition' inside. So all this so-called 'directive transposition' bullshit is done on its own and with its head here in Estonia. And the Riigikogu has every opportunity to eradicate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U27	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Chancellor, I too thank you for this report. This was extremely sincere and meaningful. My question is about children's rights. Recently, we have seen very appalling and horrible videos of violence on our peers. What is your assessment and experience from which we should begin? What should be the first steps to avoid situations like those we have seen recently?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U29	Thank you very much. I will begin by saying that, fortunately, children with very serious behavioural problems and mental disorders do not have as much as the media seems to have. Fortunately, the oppressive majority of children grow in families, live a normal life, are normal, reasonable children. But, well, there's no way that a little schoolboy fight goes to life, and in that case you have to make a distinction between what you need to get into and what you might not want to get into. But the truth is that even a few cases of violence among children and young people deserve full attention, and this cannot continue, that these children are either being tried to be placed in mainstream school or forced into home school. In this way, these parents and their children will be deprived of the necessary support. If you ask me about a possible solution, if my memory doesn't deceive me, Praxis has just published some suggestions. One of them was that children with the most serious behavioural and mental disorders, whose intellect is rather normal, might need to be provided with a service called a medical home. In one place, there would be the necessary medical care, good teachers to deal with such children, and also therapists, if necessary. It is absolutely right that we here in Estonia should not, in fact, be lost in any place, but we here in Estonia should not lose any souls. Fortunately, there are also examples that children from very difficult circumstances who have had serious behavioral problems can grow into good people. These are examples, and it is worth pursuing them with all your might. So it's a very serious problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U30	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U31	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, Chancellor! I feel that you are not so much a finger pointer in your role, but rather a partner to both citizens and, in the context of administrative reform, to public authorities and local authorities. I think this is one of the most important recognitions that an institution can earn. You mentioned that you were guided by two keywords, constitutional order and good practice. I would also point out rational behavior. One example: lifting the ban on outdoor advertising. We are going to have Riigikogu elections again, and this issue is topical. The big question is whether we are using public resources rationally in this ban. Do you have any progress or comments on the further development of this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U32	Thank you very much. I am very sorry that the Riigikogu did not agree that a complete ban on outdoor advertising should be abolished or amended during active agitation. As has been repeatedly explained, this has not had an impact originally planned and declared. Of course, this effect was that those who had bought advertising space in large cities for a long time were taken away from them. This effect, of course, was, but it was not declared publicly. The public declaration of impact, i.e. the debate on the selection process was more meaningful, cheaper, and the reduction in the need for money in politics, did not occur. It is also difficult to say that public space became less passionate because there have been other advertisements on these surfaces. I don't dare say that our candidates look so bad or say something so bad that it would be much worse than the non-political ad that's hanging there. The result is likely to be sad this time, in the sense that the police, who already have few resources, must probably begin to go out to investigate these border cases. And as you know, the fact that the elections of the European Parliament are about to come and that the advertisers will probably find opportunities before the elections of the Riigikogu, and perhaps also on the day of the election of the Riigikogu, to keep up posters, about which they will explain that this is already the election of the European Parliament. The police officer, however, has nothing to do but drive there. Of course, the criminals will not be chased at this time. So this situation isn't good, and the police are worried, as far as I know. I just heard that the two people who took the initiative have left the police, but they'll find and train new ones. But doing several hundred trips to explore some kind of poster with a suspicious message doesn't seem like a very important use of a trained person's working time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U33	Hardi Volmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U34	Your Honor, Chancellor! My question concerns surveillance licences issued by security authorities. For example, a lawyer named Leon Glikman and politician Martin Helme have been worried that the Estonian state is constantly spying on its citizens everywhere, listening to them. People have such serious concerns. How do you feel about the numerous complaints you received, for example, or what is your personal opinion on this? Can you confirm the concern that the state is spying brutally on its citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U35	Excellent question! I can assure you that our country is not spying on its citizens for no reason. And I can confirm that thanks to our inspection and legal protection missions. It is not possible to talk about the details in this room, but I can assure you that since I took office, judicial clearance has been controlled as planned, whether the acts actually done, such as eavesdroppings, have been covered by permits and people have been informed about these activities. Follow-up checks have already been carried out, which have revealed that many of the comments, proposals and recommendations that we made in 2015 and 2016 have improved the situation. It's so good that it can't get any better, of course it isn't. But what may cause concern to lawyers is the collection of information under the so-called information procurement procedure. For example, information has been obtained that someone is preparing for a serious crime, and he is being watched. And if information on corruption has been obtained in the course of this work, for example, by decision of the Attorney General, it is included in the evidence. There are cases like this, but they're usually very big things. It is absolutely right that, even then, these decisions must be verifiable, and we, too, are trying to make our contribution so that this action is precisely legitimate. How, and whether, such evidence can be taken into account whether the decision of the Prosecutor General is sufficient for the Riigikogu to decide. This procedure, which is now constitutional, and we are monitoring the implementation of this regime, we are trying to ensure discipline. If it is claimed that there are too many crimes where discreet surveillance is permitted, too many are possible. This is also a decision of the Riigikogu. But we have seen that, in fact, surveillance permits have been given to investigate very serious crimes: there is drug trafficking, there is organised crime, there are suspicions of terrorism, paedophilia, there is something else. It's that we've been tracking people just because of political views, for example, that our controls haven't shown us. And I think our controls are pretty good. As regards the assumption of Mr Helme, we have checked this and sent him a written reply. Fortunately, this doubt was not confirmed, but I call on everyone: if you feel that our investigative authorities are breaking the law, please give us a signal! I don't want to talk about details or names here, but we have, of course, the resource to go and get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U36	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U37	Thank you. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for an interesting presentation and for the very good work done by your administration. My kind of maybe short working time in the Riigikogu has indicated that very many drafts are corrections to errors. And I've been wondering why they happen to be seen by hundreds of eyes. And I understand that there are three reasons. First of all, a very confusing language, which you also referred to. I've seen situations where officials go to argue with each other about what they've written. Secondly, a superficial coordination process that does not deepen. This comes from a little bit of the first reason, but also from a very irresponsible attitude towards your work. But the third reason is that impact analyses are often very superficial or incomplete, not all aspects are considered. Have you also looked at the aspect of these impact assessments?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U38	Thank you! Yeah, I've been watching. And it seems to me that civil servants' time can be saved to a very significant extent, because if a person does too much, it is late for each meeting and leaves early and cannot process the materials, then the result is low. It can't be any different. That is why I call for the idea of the intention to develop, of the need for an instrument that has been distanced from its original point of view, to be considered, maybe it is not necessary as such. The coordination of these plans also wastes a great deal of time. At the same time, there will be less time and attention for analysing legislation that is very fast and really transforming society, which is already in the draft phase. Maybe it's a good idea to pull this process together, focus on what's important. And exactly right: impact analysis should be impartial. The result of the impact assessment shall not be politically indicated, in which case it shall not be an impact assessment. Impact analysis is an analysis based on facts and a scientific approach. Of course, the results of all reforms, be they administrative reform or pharmacy reform, cannot be scientifically predicted. There isn't anywhere. We don't have any. But it is possible to clarify the facts; it is possible to learn from the experience of other countries. On the other hand, it is not necessary to copy or automatically transfer these experiences; we must be better. We're different anyway. So it's right to ask for impact analysis. And I am very pleased that many members of the Riigikogu are boldly asking officials questions about their drafts. I have this experience myself. It takes courage when everyone understands and you're like the only one who doesn't understand. But ask how this or another norm will apply to this, the second, third and fifth life situations. And if anyone says that he doesn't know for sure or that he's going to get it right, don't let him through!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U39	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U40	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for this report. I come to the subject of the end-of-life dignity you referred to and to the service of the General Care Home, which you have dealt with thoroughly with your entire administration this year. We have laws that, by looking at one by one, are clear, understandable, understandable, but if we make them work together with a lot of other laws, then it's not that clear anymore. Ultimately, every interpreter will interpret the regulation according to his or her thoughts and skills. On this subject, this leads to the question of whether we should then start writing the laws more precisely so that maintenance obligations, the obligation to provide services, are still equally understandable. Do we have to continue to make circulars and train social workers, or do we have to put emphasis on people being more aware and able to stand up for their rights? What's the solution? We do not really want to make our laws more complex and more detailed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U41	Thank you. I do not think that new standards are urgently needed on this issue. However, if there is a need and an opportunity, the existing laws can be written more clearly and easily. Just as it simply explains what this or another norm is meant to say, it can be written down. There is no such thing as the language of the law. Law, law is just the same way of life, and legal papers don't give anyone the right to be superior to other people. It's just an additional skill, just as a doctor can do something, an engineer can do something, each of you has learned something. It's the special thing he can do. It doesn't give anyone the right to brag. Now, how to raise people's awareness? Even in a situation where the municipality or the city does not support, if the maintenance person has children or others who might be in trouble while supporting him. Is this situation unfair and also illegal? Well, that has to be explained, of course. There are many strange rooted beliefs that are not based on laws, but they are rooted, common. This is where you will get it, and I believe we can also contribute to the dissemination of the right information. The people of our private office have written articles in relevant forums and specialised publications where they have explained the subject. And we're trying to keep doing this. And one way is certainly to continue the decent, reasonable practical training of social workers and the staff of nursing homes, which does not overexploit their working hours, does not detract from their dignity, i.e. they are simple, clear, concrete, case-based. I'm sure it helps a lot. We also intend to continue sending sensible circulars to municipalities, because, as has been said, most cities and municipalities, most officials, most of the staff in nursing homes deserve genuine gratitude. They're doing their best.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U42	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U43	Thank you, too, for this very clear presentation. Over the last few years, we have had an increasing need to move to a unified education system in Estonia. From a constitutional point of view, could you comment on this idea, possible risks, opportunities and the need for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U44	Thank you! It is often argued that the Constitution's provision, which says that the language of instruction is chosen by an educational institution of a minority, means that these schools, which we call Russian schools, have the right to stick to that language. There are also Supreme Court rulings that really confirm the idea that this is not the case at the time of the Constitution. In the Republic of Estonia, all dependent schools of the local government or state are public schools, they are not private schools of a single minority and, of course, the Riigikogu is able to decide in which language the education takes place there. So, with regard to the Constitution, Estonia is perfectly able to switch to the traditional educational model in Europe, abandon segregation and start teaching in the national language in the pre-school institution or in the primary classes. But it should be borne in mind that non-Estonian native children would not be put at a disadvantage as a result. The only objective of this reform can be to put them in a more equal position. Their chances of continuing their studies in Estonian vocational schools and higher education institutions must be the same and their Russian language, Ukrainian language, which is the native language of somebody, knowledge of the culture of this people should be an additional advantage for them, which they must not lose. Under no circumstances should a person be removed from his or her roots, a situation must not be created where Russian-speaking people can no longer understand Cyrillic reading for example. This is possible, and practically all European countries still hold public schools primarily in the national language, and human rights organisations generally criticise as an unacceptable contributor to segregation. But once again, this is where the interests of the children are first and foremost. It is probably possible to move forward step by step if the Riigikogu chooses this path.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U45	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U46	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Chancellor! During your term of office in this Chamber, you have paid attention to the points of the Nature Conservation Act, which have been contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. The Riigikogu replied with its own solution. Have you analysed whether the solution of the Riigikogu has solved the problem you referred to? And how much have you ever been able to analyse the impact of your observations and the solutions you have proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U47	Thank you, very good question again! We really try never to bother the Riigikogu in vain, and that also applies to everyone else. We're trying that way, but I admit, whoever does a lot makes a lot of mistakes. But whoever doesn't do anything doesn't make mistakes. Maybe sometimes something has gone wrong, and then we've apologized. Fortunately, it is very, very little, given the more than 10,000 things that have come through my hand during my term of office. Yes, of course we will keep track of the fate of our proposals, reports, memos and other signals. On environmental issues, we have had two kinds of things before you here. First, the so-called Hellenurme mill. Indeed, the Riigikogu has made the necessary change, but unfortunately, the interagency chicken race continued, and now it is a matter of court, so, due to the principle of separation of powers and the constitution, I am not going into any more detail here. But, of course, we'll keep an eye on you, and I really hope that the court will support our understanding. You always have to be reasonable, Estonia is a small, naughty country, each case must be viewed on the basis of the same principles and the best solution chosen. It can't be that one interest automatically outweighs other interests always and everywhere. I very much hope that the Court will make a fair and reasoned decision. The second issue has been the transfer of land with conservation restrictions to the State and the necessary compensation. There are particularly sad stories where a man has bought himself a forest land without the need for nature conservation as a'retirement pillar' and then has come into a situation where no one has seen a flying squirrel there, but there is a suspicion of a flying squirrel, and therefore he cannot manage this forest. But he'll have to pay a retainer. Some people are in a very difficult situation because of this. This problem has been greatly reduced, but it has not been resolved once and for all. So let's keep an eye on this too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U48	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U49	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I'm gonna ask you again about the local government arrangement. People still choose decent people from their municipality to represent them. Councils also have school directors, representatives of non-profit organisations and other representatives of sub-offices. During the procedure of the municipal budget, they vote and decide on the amount of the financial allocation, i.e. the amounts. Does the law clearly indicate what they are entitled to do in their position, what they may or may not do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U50	Thank you very much. Specifically, with regard to the budget, the law has indeed regulated, but this law needs to be felt in order to know that it is possible to vote on the budget. The question of ethics, whether there are any apparent or even substantive problems, of course, can arise. This particular issue, which relates to the budget, has indeed been resolved in the law, but this whole set of problems has not been solved for the members of the council and also for the community. That's why I beg you, if you do, before the elections, and if you don't, then after the elections, you could do the whole thing. And, of course, not to make life easier for corrupt people, but to the contrary, to make it clear what is allowed and what is forbidden. What is forbidden must be forbidden. And all who sin must be caught and punished. This is a lesson for others. But a situation where this zone is gray and a person does his best, but then comes into public suspicion and walks around for years, a stigma in his chest, he will then be acquitted or convicted, who knows it in advance, this is not a good situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U51	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! I'm asking about my heart thing. The reform of the state has been up in Estonian society for many years, and during the spring session we made the discussion of this topic, where you also spoke, as an important national issue. Today, our Committee on State Reform Problem has completed the formulation of the basic principles of state reform, but it seems that their approval has started to slow down a little because of party interests. How do you feel about whether the Riigikogu should adopt the basic principles of state reform or whether it is such empty work and nonsense?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U53	Thank you very much. I would, of course, very much like to say what the Riigikogu should do, but then I think I would be out of my league. So it's still a question of your choices. But I will take this opportunity to commend the work of this special committee on the careful and analytical hearing, consideration of views and writing of different people, including experts. I think this job is valuable, and of course I am concerned to see that another attempt is being made, like, to do something big, but unfortunately, what does not need to be done, which does not entertain, seems bright and important, but something does not become better for people. From the point of view of the state lawyer, even many of the plans that have been presented to the public here and are likely to be made more public, make the situation even more dangerous. Their content is to take down all these balance mechanisms, power-sharing mechanisms, control mechanisms, which have so far allowed Estonia to avoid mistakes or to come out of the mistakes made without loss. So I very, very much hope that in the election campaign with this entertaining enthusiasm, that we will either change the procedure for electing the President or make the Prime Minister stronger, or make the Riigikogu a smaller party, yet seriously we will not go along. Believe me, Estonia's problems, as well as Estonia's opportunities for competition and development are absolutely elsewhere, and the establishment of constitutional balance mechanisms is a pure substitute. They don't need to be fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U54	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Chancellor of Justice, thank you for this clear, humane but also very instructive presentation. But even more, I would like to thank you and your office for your annual review, which has been sent to us electronically. It is very logical, systematic and presented in a very correct Estonian language. My question, however, is about your authority and, specifically, about your own assessment of a very simple matter. We talk a lot about the fact that life must be possible in every corner of Estonia. In every corner of Estonia, is there a guarantee of the possibility of getting the necessary help that a person can expect from his country in great distress? Is such aid available in good time, high quality and even equal in every corner of the periphery?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U56	Thank you very much. The answer is clear: the necessary aid must be available, but on the other hand, it is not always available. In the last year of the review, we also received letters, appeals, complaints, as well as questions about whether the Riigikogu and the government have violated the Constitution if they have not managed to conduct a regional policy that would make life equally secure and good in every corner of Estonia. Unfortunately, the solution that works in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and I hope that Narva, too, will not work in remote areas. There must be a different solution and perhaps the right solution is not that there is a uniform standard everywhere. Rural areas have tried to make life very similar to urban life in the past, and it has not produced any good results. Rural is rural, urban life is urban life. But a person who, for example, suffers a heart attack or stroke in his country home must not be left without help in time because he lives in Estonia in a village or another that is further away. And these solutions, although quite costly, are entirely there and, in my opinion, they must be introduced. There is a very big difference also depending on the diagnosis, but it is clear that if a person is affected by a health problem that needs immediate intervention, otherwise a person will either die or his or her quality of life will deteriorate permanently, then, of course, our country will have to find a resource to ensure that the necessary help is provided. But as far as your wishes are concerned, of course, you did not express them at all, just as I have heard them in the pre-election debate, that life should seem to be right everywhere, in this, I believe, we agree that it does not. On the contrary! The person who moves to the country will move there because he wants to move to the country, and the person who moves to the city centre of Tallinn will probably move to the city centre of Tallinn, knowing that this is the city centre of our capital, where, among other things, the road is sometimes booked for a literary festival or for a crowd run. A person has to take that into account. And if he doesn't want that ruckus, he'll have to live in the village. But I fully agree that this village must become a school, that it must become a group of people, a job, no matter how much money you have or who you are. If you're going to suffer a serious health problem, our society must come and help at the right time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U57	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U58	Good manager! Good Chancellor of Justice! I'm not gonna congratulate your department on this year's work. As usual, it's great. But here's the question. The year will soon become an administrative reform. When is the time to start reviewing these boundaries? Well, some examples. In Tartu County, Piirissaar was merged with the remote rural municipality of Tartu. The brightest pearl around Tartu Ülenurme was merged with the little neighbour Kambja and was also given the name of the small neighbour Kambja. Dissatisfaction continues to be great. The municipality has conducted public surveys, all or most would like the municipality of Ülenurme to be restored. Give advice on what the company of the Ülenurme parish should do to be heard by the Government of the Republic! What are these arguments? Could a new poll with even greater participation help, or what would be the arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U59	Thank you very much for the good words and the question. Yes, the situation of Ülenurme and Kambja we are monitoring. At this point, it seems to me that much more can not be done than has been done. But I'm gonna ask our specialists again, and then I'll be happy to send that answer afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U60	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice, my question is addressed to you as a child ombudsman. Before the school year began, we were probably all witnessing the appalling video footage shown by the TV channels and showing violence between children. That's what my question is about. Where does it still run the line where on one side the child has the right to privacy and protection from the whole society? In these videos, the images were often not blurred, the children could be identified, and they had to survive such public humiliation again. Where does this line run between freedom of the press and children's rights? How do you see this situation in the press as a children's ombudsman?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U62	Thank you very much. Indeed, similar cases had to be dealt with in the last year of the review. Once again, the answer is neither simple nor unambiguous. We have explained in many cases, including to media organisations, that the treatment of children, their showing on television, requires special consideration. It really has to be very well considered. If it is age-appropriate, the child himself must understand the matter and his parent or guardian understand what is going on. We cannot tell the media organisation that you cannot show, but we can explain what is in the interests of children and what is not. We have also done so, and it is good that in many cases media organisations have understood these explanations and given up on some clips, taken down a few clips. That makes sense. On the other hand, when there is a critical situation and it is filmed, the public has a right to know what happened. That, too, is a right to be considered when considering. But the general rule really is that minors should not be exposed in this way without careful consideration and consideration, especially knowing that the material remains online and that facial recognition technology is constantly evolving. We don't quite know what the future holds. But in the case of children, as well as older juvenile offenders, as I have already said, we must be able to forgive. We need to set them on a better path and enable them to become a good person and to live a good life. When applying for the first job, they must not be hindered by an old gang of boys. In that sense, it is a really good question. But also to this question, I ask colleagues to answer you separately so that you know what we did in this particular case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U63	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U64	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! You have dealt with maintenance mathematics a lot, and this Riigikogu has also dealt with it. At least until now, it's like a hidden problem has been highlighted and the subject has been appreciated. Undoubtedly, family care is a very money-intensive and labour-intensive area. But more and more people say that an old person actually has to be financially independent. It is now the case that children, grandchildren, ascendant relatives must cover the costs of an old man. How do you think I don't ask for real solutions, but how do I get on with this? Have some countries solved this problem through care insurance or is the state simply paying more? In the light of the Constitution, how do you imagine the financial independence of older people? How should the Estonian state move? How do you do that? There is no solution at this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U65	Thank you very much. Again, the very right and very difficult question, to which there is no simple answer. You wouldn't even ask. It would have been done a long time ago if it were easy. The fact is that according to the Estonian Constitution, everyone must be guaranteed a minimum of decent living. And indeed, that means decent conditions for a person in a nursing home, for example, and that also means that the pensioner's allowance, who lives alone, must go to that person's hands and not be counted as his home payment. Here too, we made a number of recommendations, explanations and circulars last year, because in many cases this money was essentially taken away from the elderly. This isn't right. As far as the experiences of other countries are concerned, I think there is a lesson to be learned from them. In the political groups, also in the Centre Party Group, we had this discussion in the spring, with your kind permission, I will repeat a few aspects. In Holland, for example, we went on a visit there, there is a so-called national bounty. Well, "bounty" may be a bad term, but at least that's understandable. In the Netherlands, the municipality does not pay for the nursing home because the problem is the same: there are municipalities where, for example, the "H" class must be opened to admit first-class entrants, and there are others where there are almost no children or young people. After all, it is natural that these municipalities may not be able to provide a nursing home for all those in need. So it should probably be regulated in solidarity across the country. That's one thing to consider. In such a case, it will be possible for a person to receive the help he needs with dignity. And, of course, the Netherlands also takes into account man's own income and other assets. And, of course, it is possible for children and other loved ones to support the activities that older people also need, be they Mozart-themed piano lessons or some sporting activities, as far as it is possible for anyone. Of course, this support is also possible. Perhaps in the future, however, it will also be worth considering from this point of view that this is not a self-governing issue. Even after the administrative reform, the municipalities will not become equally prosperous and a uniform population pyramid will not be created. This area could be centrally, jointly and severally funded. As far as the creation of a new insurance instrument for old age is concerned, it is certainly also possible. But these are things that I think should be discussed in society as a whole during the elections. These are questions where the Riigikogu, acting on the basis of the mandate of the people, can make the most suitable decisions in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U66	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U67	Thank you. First of all, Chancellor of Justice, thank you very much for your meaningful performance. It's nice to see how you can master the topics from the wall to the wall and dare to say your point of view. Thanks for that. Here's the question. You're the Chancellor of Justice since 2015, running for the third year. The first question is what has surprised you most in this job. And the second question: do you, by law, have all the resources and also the rights and obligations to do your job in the way you want to do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U68	Thank you very much. There have been no big surprises, because it's my specialty job. State law has been my specialty for over 20 years, and I have worked in this area at different angles and in different institutions, also here in the Riigikogu as an official of the Constitutional Committee. But, of course, my view of life in Estonia has expanded to a very significant extent. I used to think that when driving in Tallinn with public transport, if it is possible in time, simply to see and meet people, to perceive what is happening in society, and to live in free time largely outside Tallinn and living in Tallinn during working hours, I have met more or less all people and I can imagine what is going on. That I'm not the one living in a bubble. I thought that before, I don't think so anymore. In fact, Estonia's life is considerably more diverse, more complicated than I could imagine, perhaps it was the only surprise. In terms of legality and constitutionality, I really, really, really like professional work, thank you for trusting me with this. As far as resources are concerned, my firm conviction is that no institution should have to hire additional people without a very serious need. I think that every kind of lawyers, developers, analysts are actually enough or somewhat more than necessary. The place where the resource, i.e. money, people, attention, valorisation, should be directed more is the 'frontier'. I mean police, medics, nursing staff, our kindergarten staff and teachers. Now, this is the place that I think should be more valued. So I don't claim to increase my office either. It was because of the added functions that some additional resource came to us, and this was really necessary, because the fundamental reform of the administration had been carried out and we had nothing more to gain from the inside. But for some sort of resource trading, for expansion, I'm not claiming because it's basically not right. There are relatively few people in Estonia who can do the work that needs to be done in our administration. And I am very pleased that if there are enough people to work here in the Riigikogu, there will be plenty of people to work in ministries, municipalities, cities. And once again, let us make sure that those people who come into direct contact with our people in schools, hospitals, law enforcement on the street get more attention, more pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U69	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U70	Thank you, Chancellor. I'm glad to hear you've gained experience in life. That is why I would like to ask whether your views have changed as well. My question is this: do you think that the ownership reform was fair and that the apartments that were forced to be taken away from tenant families in the course of the reform, i.e. the homes lost, should not be compensated by the state, compensating for the costs of establishing a new home?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U71	Thank you very much. This is a professional issue that I was prepared to answer when I took office, and unfortunately this response has not changed. The question of how, and whether, these people at all can be compensated or mitigated by their perceived injustices can only be resolved by the Riigikogu with the mandate of the people. Once again, the occupation cut through the lives of a very large number of families, I think most families would, of course, have gone quite differently. I do not know anyone who would have proposed a better viable plan for a return to a free society. If someone had been, maybe you could talk about these things differently. As far as I remember the situation at the time, and I've read about it, there were so many different interests and lines of power that were inevitable at the time, so conflicting that there could probably not have been a much better plan. But at the same time, the pain that these transitions and also the ownership reform brought, I fully understand. Of course, in my family too, there is all the imaginary experience of this reform. So it is extremely nice of you to make the voice of these people in this Riigikogu heard that you defend the rights of forced tenants. But I have to make a clear distinction between a legal answer and a political response.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U72	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I will continue with the subject you raised on the dignity of the end of life. You rightly said that we do not have a specific form of how a person can formalize his desire to resurrect him from clinical death or not. My internship at the hospital while working at the palliative treatment center showed that these desires were formalized and somehow managed. A person can express and formalize his desire. But I'd like to keep going. When my patients learned that I would come from hospital work to the Riigikogu in the meantime, they sent me here with a relatively definite mandate, so that I would not finally raise the subject of euthanasia, so that the incurable patients could finally decide on their future in Estonia as well, rather than travel abroad. But my question is a little bit broader: do you think our medical team is willing to consider it? And would our society accept this discussion if we brought it up?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U74	Thank you very much. Our department's experience tells us that some doctors see this possibility and think it's right, the other part doesn't. And considerations are not religious. It seems to us that this line runs between age groups rather than between age groups. My Dutch colleague and I went to the village of my relevant advisors precisely to look at how best to support people with a very serious diagnosis of dementia, and also in a way that the country can afford. We also asked for a meeting with a doctor who was conducting euthanasia. And even though this conversation for several hours was emotionally very difficult, it was also very, very important to me. In fact, it is possible to allow this. Once again, this can only be done by the Riigikogu. I highly suggest that those who carry it may have a similar conversation. You, and certainly some others, have very broad knowledge in this area. But if no one does, but he feels the need to get to know the practical side of it, we can actually recommend it. I've also been thinking that maybe the same particular doctor should be invited here to arrange a conversation for those interested. It really opens its eyes in many ways. Also, what this procedure means for the person who does it. So he's psychologically prepared to understand. It wasn't a tear-punching conversation, it was an eye-opening conversation. So, yes, I think this theme raise is right, the order for it in society is there. I believe that it is delicately, reasonably possible to discuss this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U75	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U76	Thank you, President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! A very important and explicit employer manifesto has just been published, with proposals that include education as one of the top priorities, because people's future prospects depend most on education. My question concerns our current linguistic education arrangements, which, according to various studies, place people in an unequal position on our labour market. Has this arrangement been the reason that people cannot stand up for their own rights, and has this tendency deepened, or have people somehow begun to notice it more and to consider it important?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U77	Thank you very much. I don't have any research data that would allow you to answer with certainty how this thing is. But at the beginning of my term of office, I also brought before you a presentation in which it was stressed that, from the point of view of the Estonian society, the survival of the Estonian people, it is extremely important that every child, regardless of which family he is born in and in which corner of Estonia, can become his own best version, so that he can have the best opportunity to learn, develop his talents, become a good person, regardless of the nationality he is, how his health is, where he lives. So that is what we should be striving for in any case. And again, I am very pleased that the subject of education is so concrete, so clearly and already as steps to be measured in society's debate. But there is, unfortunately, no specific science-based answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U78	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is, should Estonia, after 1992, if we then wanted legal continuity, have carried out desovetisation and decolonisation, which could result in injustice? We've heard a point of view here today. Some of the legitimate owners were denied their property and were allowed to privatise those sites for the EVPs in people who could not be in any way entitled subjects at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U80	Thank you very much. I'm really glad you're asking me that. This very accurately illustrates the situation at that time and the injustice that was felt on one side of the front line. The judges took their share back then. It is recalled that in administrative courts the piles of complaints relating to property reform and the legitimate and even well-founded decisions still led both parties to march out of the court with the feeling that they had been deceived and that the state was unjust towards them. The occupation was scary, and that is why everything must be done so that something like this cannot happen again, so that no one in Estonia can have all the power in their hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U81	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U82	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! If I could ever choose the President of the Republic of Estonia again and you would run for office, you could count on my vote. Such a clear yet so specific talk is rarely heard in this Chamber. However, the question is about this area, which the Chancellor of Justice institution has been dealing with for a good four years now, which is the expert oversight of the activities of the security authorities. Have you also paid attention in your work to this aspect of how reliable, methodical and effective security checks are for people accessing state secrets? There have been very negative examples for several years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U83	Thank you very much for your good words. The answer to this question is that we have not checked this section of the Department of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your constructive questions. And, Chancellor of Justice, thank you very much for your constructive answers. I'm opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups may take part in the negotiations. Let me ask you, Hatter, as a representative of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U85	Good Riigikogu! Good Chancellor of Justice! Thank you for this very explicit message. We must admit that the Chancellor of Justice is a reflection of our work, the Riigikogu. He is a reflection of the functioning of our country, which will enable us to learn how the decisions we have taken in this Chamber work and whether they work at all. To remind you, we became sisters and brothers, essentially one day apart: the Chancellor of Justice took the oath of office the day after we started working. And my personal conviction is that we see progress in the work of the Chancellor of Justice institution. But do we also see developments in the work and editing of the Riigikogu hall, I doubt that. This is what the Chancellor of Justice actually referred to with a number of observations on our work. For example, I really think the problem is that we do not have control over what is happening in the committees. It has been asked whether we are able to dictate the pace of the draft procedure and whether what is being put on the table is legitimate and sensible, not pseudoactivity. I am saying that we do not have this control in the committees, because there is a panicking coalition agreement to collect points, rather than wondering whether our people need one or another change. The Chancellor of Justice made a very important observation that we are still working on a common value space. I am afraid that we are increasingly moving in the direction that, in particular, as the campaign approaches, this common value area is panicked. So it's intimidation or various provocations. And there are also various examples of our procedure. The Estonian-language education debate last week gave examples of how different local authorities are trying to influence the education system faithfully or not. This is a concern and we need to pay more attention to it because we are a small country. We need to protect ourselves more. We have more to stand up for and for than in any other country. I am pleased that our Chancellor of Justice is the guarantor of the Constitution. It gives us a guarantee that someone will knock on our conscience so that we don't go along with every stupidity. After all, we often forget to ask whether the current regime prevents us from establishing normal living arrangements. In general, we do not see these obstacles. We must ask whether the political will is to live rationally or not. It's a matter of political culture. I am pleased that the Chancellor of Justice has wished to pay attention to this during his term of office. I will, for example, highlight the problem of banning outdoor advertising. As he said today in his reply, the question is the rational use of a number of resource sources, and if we are trying to stay away from the debate on this subject, I have personally felt that those who would like to have a debate on this subject would rather be ridiculed, it is not rational behaviour. I thank the Chancellor of Justice, on behalf of the Free Party Group, for his good cooperation, for his good work, and wish him every success for the next steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U86	On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Chancellor of Justice! Colleagues! I will begin my speech with the words of the Chancellor of Justice himself, which we have been able to read in electronic form on his website and which he also said here today: 'Country, let live and be honest! " I think that these words also characterize quite a year ago and give us something to think about for the future. I am very pleased that the performance of the Chancellor of Justice here and the answers to the questions were dignified and respectful, and I am sure that the right thoughts were intrigued. I believe that the whole hall here in the Riigikogu and, in fact, the whole of Estonian society, and above all Estonian politics, should be based on these words. A respectable and dignified policy should be what we are doing in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, regardless of what our personal emotions are. Why did I consciously ask the Chancellor of Justice what he considered to have been a legislative failure over the last year? You see, legislation is exactly what we are responsible for in this Chamber. As Ombudsman, the duties of the Chancellor of Justice are, of course, much wider than those of constitutional review that arrive in this Chamber. The complaints and other appeals of individuals treated as Ombudsman are very wide ranging from the dignity of the end-of-life to, for example, the right to the detention of individuals or the prohibition of leaving the place of residence, as can be seen from the electronic overview. There is a great deal of these issues, and the supervision of the security authorities is another additional task that the Chancellor of Justice has carried out in recent years, and this has certainly improved the work of the security authorities. When I come back to our Chamber and our work, I think that the last year as a whole is characterised by the legislation of the government coalition. Dirty in Estonia is known to have a number of meanings, among other things it also indicates too hasty action. I will give you only three examples. Firstly, the so-called church money issue. It arrived in this hall, and we came to realize that this was the wrong bill. Today, the government itself has understood this and is looking for solutions in other ways. But the Chancellor of Justice specifically pointed out the unlawfulness of the bill. It can't be that when there's money, there's a way to use that money, and if there's no way, there's just going to be a change in the law. Very clearly sloppy legislation! Another example is excise policy. Excise policy had to have an impact analysis. Something was written on a couple of pages, but it wasn't a meaningful impact analysis. Today we know these results and the fruits: over 200 million tax money has migrated to Latvia and the government itself has once again a desire to come to this Chamber to change the excise policy that has already been put in place. Clearly sloppy legislation! And the third example is the draft VEB Foundation, which was discussed again in this Chamber. And once again, the government coalition realized they'd been screwed up. Once again, a proposal has been made that has no connection with the current Estonian law, possible contradiction with the Constitution, and the experts directly blew this draft. Dirty lawmaking again! However, I am not going to give any more examples of them, but it would be possible to bring them more, but the keyword is clearly 'dirty lawmaking'. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U88	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U89	The role of the Chancellor of Justice is to be the legal representative of society. From today's review we learned that he has performed this role nicely and that there are not many recommendations to the Chancellor of Justice. Perhaps only one, and it could sound roughly as if the Chancellor of Justice could also, by participating in all the meetings of the Government of the Republic, say more boldly his initial assessment or opinion on a subject and this should also be recorded in the minutes. I also understand the need for 'later' regulation and its right to itself, not knowing what decision Parliament has taken, but it would be easier for Parliament and all the political groups to do their work, knowing the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice at the government meeting. In general, however, we have a very interesting time in this Chamber as well as in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice: elections are coming and this may lead to a situation where we do not hear much from the government in the next six months. They do not want to quarrel with each other, and so legislation is in such a silent or sleepy state, with the exception of the state budget that creates passion and debate. I wish us all the strength and strength to survive the next six months! For the Chancellor of Justice, I would like to endure for the next six months at an insane political rally. The Chancellor of Justice will certainly also be approached with various questions. One potential question ran through the media yesterday: once again, suspicious K-hunch ads have appeared on the streets. Someone's gonna check with the Chancellor of Justice on how it fits the standards. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice must take into account that in six months' time there will be new people in this Chamber, and the next annual review must be given to the new Riigikogu. So strength and strength for the Chancellor of Justice! For us, ladies and gentlemen, the mind and dignity for the last six months and the good getting along with the Chancellor of Justice institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U90	Thank you. Marko Pomerants on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U91	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, There is no such great praise coming from me to the Chancellor of Justice, but the reason is very pronostic: the fact that a person is doing his job properly should, in my opinion, still be the norm, and Ülle Madise has fulfilled this norm very well. Thank you. The Chancellor of Justice began his speech by contributing to the Riigikogu, and I agree with that. But I do not agree with the comments of those colleagues who have already come from this hall about how this life is going on in the Riigikogu or how it is of quality. Ladies and gentlemen, it is still the case that the quality line does not follow the opposition and coalition. Stupid things can also come from the coalition's mouth, and wisdom can also come from the opposition's mouth. In a variety of questions, that happens. This quality we make up together here, all 101 of us here. And we have better and worse days. Fortunately, the Rules of Procedure have given us the opportunity to take down the original hurrah, which can be said, for example, that if one draft passes the first reading, then there will be no further compulsion for this draft to necessarily become a law. And I think there is no correct answer here, whether it is sometimes right to reject a draft at first reading immediately or to let it fade quietly, because in four years the elections will come anyway. Hanno Pevkur wanted the Chancellor of Justice to be more enthusiastic at government meetings. I'm gonna do my praise now, too. I think that the contribution of the Chancellor of Justice personally and his team-womanship, who examined these exceptions in advance, will certainly be made in what happened to the administrative-territorial reform. And this approach, that the Russians and Estonians should have a conversation, that the Estonians should have a conversation, that in my opinion, one way or the other would help in life. Even if you're talking about someone behind you, you must always keep in mind that you're able to tell that story to yourself. It's easier to live like this. I agree that the design intentions create a double workload and, although they have not solved any problems, have helped to screen out the necessary legislation. It is certainly reasonable to change this practice. As far as impact analysis is concerned, criticism can always be made on this subject. But whether this analysis is a long two pages or 12 pages, believe me, no member of the Riigikogu will ever see such an impact analysis, which could describe the actual impact of one or the other draft law in its entirety. It is certainly possible to anticipate better effects in some cases, in some cases worse. I am the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We are taking the draft Personal Data Protection Act and the accompanying Personal Data Protection Act Implementation Act, which has a fatal number 650. In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, we were raging with one bill No 650, so yes and more. There's time for March. It's been a while. I intend to hear anyone who issues newspapers or plans to publish them. So let's try to distinguish between the public interest and the sick interest and use the right concepts. Simplification is, of course, a fine thing, but simplicity cannot be an end in lawmaking itself. Sometimes it can cost hundreds of millions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U92	Thank you. Now please, Mrs Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U93	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U94	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Your Honor, Chancellor! Good tradesmen and watchers on the screen! Thank you for a very thorough, simple language and a clear overview of the problems. The Chancellor of Justice has written in his review: 'The Chancellor of Justice is not a politician. Unlike the elected representative, he has no mandate to write laws or discuss them in the Riigikogu. However, it must intervene if the proposed amendment to the law could conflict with the Constitution and the foundations of common life. That is right, by preventing potential errors and the economic damage and legal confusion they entail, by drawing the attention of Parliament and, where appropriate, of the public, the Chancellor of Justice will best carry out his oath of office. ' We in this Chamber are politicians, we are jointly responsible for ensuring that the quality of the draft laws and of the general legislation continues to decline, as the review points out. The beautiful Estonian language is not perceived as fit for official language, and decisions and administrative acts are often impenetrable in the pulpit. The principle of good administration, according to which the state and local authorities interact with people in a kind, straightforward, understandable manner, has not always been respected, and is committed to solving problems rather than simply dealing with them. Regrettably, the authors of the drafts have also often failed to explain how the proposed standards will apply in the living situations and what will actually become better, easier and more supportive for people. The Riigikogu plays a very important role in clarifying drafts and rejecting unnecessary transcripts. The review shows that, during the reporting period from 1 September 2017 to 31 August 2018, 3525 different types of address, application and letter were received by the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, which is 182 more than a year earlier. It's not just a number, it's a matter of concern for a particular person who senses injustice. It's an issue that needs to be clarified. These appeals turned out to be 2364. In June this year, the Riigikogu supplemented the law of the Chancellor of Justice. According to the amendment, the institution of the Chancellor of Justice as a national authority from the beginning of 2019 will also carry out tasks related to the protection and promotion of human rights under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was ratified in Estonia already in March 2012 and now, finally, there is also a national human rights authority that will act in accordance with the ratified convention. Against this background, the number of appeals will certainly increase. Reading the review clearly shows that there is no reason for the independent institution of the Chancellor of Justice to worry about unemployment. The list that needs to be dealt with is impressive. The review that we have heard today also outlines the issues that have been dealt with to a greater or lesser extent, starting with the mitigation of the displeasure arising from tax changes and ending with the extensive work on the need to give an opinion on the legitimacy of the so-called pharmacy reform that will enter into force in the summer of 2020. In that opinion, the Chancellor of Justice considered that, as regards the prohibition of vertical integration of retail and wholesale distribution provided for by the Amendment to the Law on Medicinal Products, the wholesaler should not be a retailer at the same time and the requirement of a pharmacist's office, the law provides for a sufficiently long transitional period for their implementation. The Riigikogu also has the right, for important reasons such as health protection, to restructure activities in accordance with some laws. By the same reason, the Chancellor of Justice considered the entry into force of the Tobacco Act to be a legitimate restriction prohibiting the display of tobacco products in the store from summer 2019. The review also discusses the launch of the new and changed work of local governments formed during the administrative-territorial reform, which has led to concerns. A number of attention-raising activities in the social field, covering the entire life map, i.e. from children to the elderly, concerning equal treatment of disabled people in the provision of aids, the need for specific guidelines for caring for disabled people in hospital, the organisation of social services by local authorities and other concerns about accessing social services, or it would be more correct to say that if they were not received, all of this had been on the desk of the Chancellor of Justice. However, the Chancellor of Justice and his staff also deserve special thanks for the fact that they have carried out trainings and meetings in local governments and have written explanatory articles. I am convinced that local authorities want to give their people the best. Sometimes, though, knowledge or money are lacking. It is somewhat symbolic that at today's session of the Riigikogu, after this review, the draft is on the agenda, which was born precisely because of the attention of the Chancellor of Justice and the proposal to bring Article 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act into line with the Constitution, in order to ensure that residents of a welfare institution have the same rights to receive aid without the support of the state as those in need of a helper living at home. A home is a home, and such a difference that exists so far is not justified by the desire to save money or by the aim of motivating people to live at home. This problem will disappear and the unequal treatment of those in need will end on 1 January 2019. At the beginning of the summer, the Chancellor of Justice turned to the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu and the Minister of Health and Labour with a proposal to open a debate to change the unemployment insurance system. I am also pleased that it is precisely today, following the plenary session of the Committee on Social Affairs, that we are starting this debate. Under the current circumstances, only one third of the persons who registered at the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund receive social security, although the rest of them have also paid unemployment insurance contributions on their salary. A more flexible system should take into account the changed labour market and also be in line with the principles of lifelong learning. For example, it seems unreasonable to limit the opportunities for students and older workers to receive temporary assistance from the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, if necessary, in the current situation when labour is scarce. Finally. On behalf of the Socialists, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice and his team for the work that has been done during the 2017-2018 period for their proposals, meetings and attention management when something needs to be changed or at least for the debate on it. Thank you for the fact that you have always spoken in clear and beautiful Estonian on legal matters and have done so in such a way that the legal system has not suffered, but things have been stated clearly and frankly. We wish you success and continued cooperation, always so that Estonia is a place where freedoms, rights and obligations are guaranteed, where each person is counted and where no one feels left behind or left alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U95	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U96	Thank you, Mrs. Hunter! Next, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I would like to speak to Mr Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U97	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Chancellor of Justice! I am not like this type of multiplier, but everything that has been said is true, too, of the other representatives of the political groups. That is how I would like to confirm that the Chancellor of Justice and his team have done an excellent, brilliant job. Yeah, the best cop is the cop you can't see, but the street's in the house. It's the ultimate thing for me that I know you exist, so I don't see you most of the time. I mean, we feel you exist, and when we're in trouble, we can turn to you. Thank you, Madam Chancellor. Thank you very much, especially for the sentence that, if it is possible to do the job yourself, it must be done, not more than a thousand advisors, analysts or I don't know who. For which pointlessly make the staff bigger than there really is a bright head to solve the issues. Let's just help that bright head, so he can do his job even better! So big-big-big-big thank you! All I want to say is that if you keep an eye on the Ülenurme's name in the debate, please also keep an eye on the very heated debate between the rural municipalities of Setomaa and Räpina. Please keep an eye on the Otepää and Puka dispute! Please keep an eye on how, for example, life in Valga's maternity home goes on, how the service is available there! There is no surgeon in the knee, and Põlva Hospital loses the rights of the general hospital if the surgeon is not. Valga Hospital if one of these disappears at all, it will be a department of South-Estonian Hospital in Võru. I mean, keep an eye on it! If I know you're keeping an eye on me, I'm gonna have a lot more of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U98	Thank you. There are no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations and therefore the debate on the first item on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U99	Let's go to the second item. First reading of draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council) 661. Mr Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, would like to present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U100	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I am before you to introduce the draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act, which is also known as the Geoblock Bill. This is one of the fruits of the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. The amendment of the law is due to the need to implement the directly applicable EU regulation on the prohibition of geo-blocking. As mentioned earlier, it is known as a geoblock regulation. Following the implementation of the Geoblock Regulation, as of 3 December this year, traders operating in the European Union are prohibited from applying discriminatory conditions of sale to the availability of goods or services based on the nationality, place of residence or location of the customer if the customer wishes to purchase goods under payment and delivery conditions suitable for the seller, to consume electronically supplied services across borders or to consume services at a physical location in the territory of the Member State in which the trader operates. As a result, traders are prohibited from restricting the customer's access to their online store and redirecting them to another website without prior consent. It is also prohibited to apply different conditions for payment transactions to the extent of the payment instruments introduced by the trader where they result from the location of the payment account, the location of the payment service provider or the place where the payment instrument is issued. However, the regulation does not oblige traders to deliver their goods to all countries of the European Union, but at least the same supply options as those offered to customers in their home country must be guaranteed. What's gonna change? Since the EU regulation is directly applicable, the purpose of the draft law is to lay down rules on the measures to be applied for breach of the above principles and to ensure that they are implemented. As a result of the adoption of the Bill as a law, the Consumer Protection Board is designated to ensure the implementation of the Geoblock Regulation and to monitor compliance with its requirements. In the event of a breach of the above-mentioned requirements, the Consumer Protection Board shall have the right to fine up to 300 fine units and, if the infringement has been committed by a legal person, to fine up to EUR 32000. The law is intended to enter into force in parallel with the European Union's geoblock regulation on 3 December this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U101	Thank you. Peter Ernits, first question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U102	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it, Article 20 of the Services Directive is not working well, and this geoblock regulation should improve. But explain in the so-called rural language how the customer is actually discriminated against either in terms of price or payment terms. How does this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U103	Today, there may be a way in some online shops that if you signal that you are a buyer who is not in a country on the ground, you will be directed to a different choice of goods than that offered to domestic customers. You can't do that from now on. So if you go to an online shop in a Member State, you have the same choice as the customers in that country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U104	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U105	Good manager! Good minister! I'm looking at the websites of paying traders to the state. There are not all the bank links in Estonia. Somehow, a few banks have been put in there, but not all of them. Does this law not mean that we should get things right within our own country, so regardless of which bank you are a customer, you can pay all taxes or all services to the state through your bank. Now I see that there is no such situation when I look at this website.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U106	This obligation does not arise for the trader to accept, for example, all forms of payment. So if you have the opportunity to pay using the trading method that suits the trader and is aimed at domestic consumption, you are also entitled to buy. But this does not create additional obligations for our merchants, for example, that they must create some kind of transmission facilities that have not existed so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U107	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! The draft law states that Estonian entrepreneurs who are directly affected by this draft law have been consulted and informed. What were the main observations or comments made by Estonian entrepreneurs on this draft law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U109	Estonian traders have actually had few of these restrictions so far, but the main question was perhaps that if all consumers across Europe have equal rights, does this mean that the Estonian merchant must also know the consumer rights of all Member States. The answer is that this regulation does not require the trader to be informed about consumer rights in all other EU countries. It is part of the freedom to conduct a business and the freedom of the target markets. The aspects of consumer protection must be felt in the country where you carry out the so-called active sale, or it is important what language you do it in. If this is an Estonian sales environment, the sale takes place in Estonian, then the Estonian consumer protection rules must be known.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U110	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! It is a draft that we are looking forward to, but my question is on the practical side. I understand that this law will be monitored in Estonia by the Consumer Protection Board. I have two questions from here. Will the Consumer Protection Board also deal with this proactively, above all, when we talk about goods sold in Estonia and talk about Internet sites, or will it be dealt with on a case-by-case basis? The second question is this. Who should I contact if the company has an Italian address, for example, and if there is a problem on the website that I cannot buy the thing? Should I contact the Estonian Consumer Protection Board or should I contact the Italian supervisory body?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U112	The Consumer Protection Board will not scan all possible online environments in advance, because with this draft we will not create any additional jobs in the Consumer Protection Board. Precepts must be served on the available resource. If you find a website in Italian where you as an Estonian consumer are closed to the door and you do not have access to the choice of goods, I will tell you that European consumer organisations have good professional cooperation between themselves. It is probably the easiest thing for Estonian consumers to turn to Estonian consumer protection, who will then turn to his Italian colleague. Each individual need not be in contact with the Italian authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U113	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U114	Good manager! Good minister! I'll continue. If a third of internet users do e-commerce, I think there were 37% of them across Europe, but it's not going to work, then what is it? Is there another page or is there more stuff in there? Why do buyers mostly fail to trade across borders?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U115	There are two main barriers in Europe that are difficult to overcome, if not impossible under the current regulation. The first is that if you enter the consumer environment from an IP address in another Member State, you will not be shown the choice of goods that are on the spot. Second, if you have been able to make your choice, you may not have the merchant's acceptable means of payment. This regulation implies that Visa or Mastercard issued in another country must also be accepted. There cannot be a requirement to have a payment card issued by banks in only one Member State. So if you have this payment instrument, you have to accept it even if it is issued in another country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U116	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U117	Good manager! Good minister! I'm going to be more specific once again to understand exactly what I'm saying. If I have a company and I have dealers in five or six countries, is it if I have a dealer in Belgium, for example, and if a Belgian buyer wants to buy, he will come to my site and it will automatically direct him to the Belgian dealer's page, is he allowed or is not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U118	Whether a client agrees to use a location-based page must be the customer's right. Automatic routing must not deprive him of the possibility of staying on the original page to make his purchase. That is exactly how it has been in Europe that you are very often directed to a page of a country whose choice of goods is not the same as that of a shop in its domestic choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U119	Madam Secretary, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I invite a chair to waitress for the Economic Commission, Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U120	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Last Monday, the Committee on Economic Affairs started its work and, having listened to the minister and the ministers' advisers, made three decisions. First, send the draft to the agenda for today, with Arto Aas, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Jaanus Marrand, Kristen Michal, Raivo Põldaru, Erki Savisaar, Sven Sester and Märt Sults, or there was consensus. Secondly, to propose that the first reading be stopped; everyone was in favour of it as well. The third proposal was on the deadline for the submission of amendments, that it would be at 5 p.m. on 2 October, which was also a consensual decision. For your part, I hope that you will support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U121	Good waitress, there are no more questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U122	It's a good thing there's no more.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U123	Okay. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 661. First reading is complete. I would point out that the deadline for submitting amendments is 5.15 p.m. on 2 October, not 5 p.m. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U124	Let's go to the third item. First reading of the Act on Supplementing the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee, 648. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U125	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The introduction of free public transport has led to the need to make changes, as public transport continues to have an inappropriate route network and departure times, which give workers only limited opportunities to move to the appropriate destination at the appropriate time. The purpose of the amendment to the Income Tax Act is to exempt from the special preferential tax the costs incurred by companies to cover the costs of public transport when moving between the worker's place of employment and home. There are three bus transport operators in Estonia. There are commercial lines that the state does not subsidise, there are municipal subsidised routes, such as for the carriage of students, and there are public lines that are subsidised by the state. For these latter, 11 counties have been implementing the provision of public transport services free of charge since 1 July. At the same time, there are unequal conditions for companies which compensate their employees for bus tickets on commercial routes to and from their homes. At present, there is a regulation under the Income Tax Act under which compensation for transport costs related to employment is considered to be a special advantage, with the exception of differences. For example, the employer's costs of transporting an employee working under a contract of employment between the place of residence and the place of employment shall not be taxed as a special advantage if the worker's place of residence is at least 50 kilometres from the place of employment or if the employer arranges transport by vehicle with at least eight seats or by bus within the meaning of the Traffic Act. In all other cases, it is subject to taxation. We need to avoid situations where a public route can work and go home free of charge, but when travelling on a commercial route, you have to buy a ticket and, if the company wants to compensate for it, you also have to pay a special bonus tax. In a situation where the State seeks to encourage the preferential use of public transport and offers a "free public transport service', it is not reasonable to continue to tax a service of exactly the same purpose by means of a special preferential tax. Public transport should be organised in a comprehensive manner in all counties, involving all parties involved and without breaking down well-functioning commercial lines and providing a legal basis for operators to pay the costs of commuting workers to work and home, irrespective of the bus and coach transport operator, without any special incentive charge. Indirectly, the amendment to the draft would also support the continuation of commercial lines and the operation of the existing network. In short, businesses and workers must not be left at a disadvantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U126	You have questions too. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! Unfortunately, when we listen to the introduction of this draft and when we read the explanatory memorandum, we have to admit that there has been another additional price tag for free public transport, an additional bill. That is EUR 7 million if we approve this draft. You yourself, just as you stressed, that due to free public transport, above all, this unequal competition has arisen. If you drive a commercial route, you have to pay a special preferential tax as of today, it will be covered by a special preferential tax. When the idea of free public transport was presented, it was supposed to be like a magic wand that had to solve all the problems in the country. It now turns out that, in fact, this network is still not as perfect as we have been referring to all the time, it does not cover the real need. Instead of being free, the network could have been improved. Don't you think that's gonna cost the taxpayer a lot of money by the end of the day? The amount of "free public transport" will be 20 million next year, now running out of 7 million. Isn't that a lot?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U128	Thank you, Thomas, for a good question. First of all, I have to make it clear that the $7 million that is written here is a complete mess, politely put. In fact, the Ministry of Finance doesn't know how much it's worth. He just took the full amount of the special preferential tax and wrote down $7 million. This order of magnitude, according to specialists, is EUR 30000, EUR 40000, EUR 50000 or EUR 60000, and not EUR 7 million. This is the first part of the answer. Second, what's important? The important thing is that I get from point A to point B when I want to.Today, there are three options. There is public transport and public transport subsidised by the state, but we should not break down commercial lines that operate. Right now, it's a stupid situation because of the law. If I want to drive, I don't know, from Tartu to Ülenurme and this is a commercial line, and if I take a ticket to the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur will pay a special discount tax. If an undertaking sets aside a commercial route to its own bus, i.e. an eight-digit minivan hall, it does not have to pay for it. Just at the moment when the law was amended a few years ago and the opportunity was created for the company to bring workers from 50 kilometres away, it was not intended for it, and it was not known that there would be free public transport. Now the situation is that you, Toomas, are going to work on public transport, public transport, it's free, but I'm going to come right next door with a commercial line, because there's no public line stop at my bus stop, and I'm going to pay the ticket myself, and if the entrepreneur wanted to compensate, he'd pay a special discount on it. There should be no inequality. I stress that it is also important that commercial lines remain. We look at our neighbours from the Latvians and we see what has happened there since the country has taken over everything. This means that a commercial line cannot be set aside. There are two sides to this thing. One thing is that it is important for us to get our people to work and get home from work on time. If there is a possibility that somebody will get free of charge, then on the other hand, this journey should in no way be subject to special preferential tax. This law clearly gives this possibility to all bus routes and all train paths. The Commission was asked whether taxis were included. It is clear that taxis have been taken out of here, as clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum. Otherwise, the next day, all taxi bills will be delivered, all private cars will be turned into taxis, and going to work and home would be a taxi service. That's the question that's been upstairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U129	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U130	Thank you very much. Thanks to the waitress! At first, I planned to ask about this EUR 7 million. It feels like incredible. You've already mentioned that it's totally overrated and probably only half a million. I understand that the purpose of this draft is to exempt employers from the special preferential tax. How many of these employers are there, how many people could be affected? That's one side of the question. On the other hand, you repeatedly stressed in your report that it was intended to ensure that commercial lines would still survive. Which, then, is more of the purpose of the draft: either to support employers who are not supposed to pay the special preferential tax, or is the draft indirectly intended to support the activities of commercial lines? Are they directly related and how?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U131	Thank you, Monika, for a very good question. Yeah, they're directly related. I stress once again: it is important that we have bus routes, regardless of the form behind or who is the owner or payer. On the one hand, it is not easy to get employees into the company today. If there is a commercial line that can travel to work and home, while there is a free line next to it, it is clear that we should not distinguish between one mode of transport and another, so that one has a special tax and the other does not. On the other hand, while there was this free public transport story on the table in spring, our committee invited all parties to the table three or four times, and the commercial operators also came with their concerns and joys. I am pleased that, of the four issues, we have solved the two and the third is now on this table. It is also important that if today's commercial line works, that we do not break this well-functioning line. That's one way to get people to use it, because if you have to pay the special bonus tax either way, one day it'll be paid for driving a private car, not driving on the same line. But our understanding has been that there could be less private car driving and more public transport, so that the environment would also be better maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U132	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I agree with your defense speech to the commercial lines one hundred percent. This is a hundred times more useful to taxpayers, because commercial routes are not paid taxpayers' money at all, while public regular services are in many ways on the "state cost line." Unfortunately, however, I did not hear your similar defense speech when public transport was implemented free of charge. This has hit commercial lines several times as hard as possible if we do not adopt this draft. But that's it. I must admit, however, that this is an unprecedented diversion of the legislator. Indeed, the bill states that $7 million is the sum. I understand you said this cost could not be half a million, but $30,000, 40,000. I've never experienced this kind of confusion in this hall before. In any case, there is a sincere request that there should also be a clear number for the second reading, on paper, so that the Riigikogu knows which number we have to consider. The difference between 30,000 and 7 million is very, very large.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U134	Thank you, Thomas, for a good question. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this number was also asked by an official of the Ministry of Finance. There's a clear answer that they don't know the exact number. Then there was an explanation that there's all the numbers in there that exist today. We don't know the effect, of course, how many people will drive. There are also many people travelling on free public transport, especially the Valka border. Maybe we should put extra buses in. But even if more people are going to drive, the state will not lose a cent of revenue, because it would not have been before that special preferential tax would have been paid to the State. When more people come, the entrepreneur can simply compensate for going home from work and work, that's all. That very clear number, I think, the Committee on Monetary Affairs cannot tell you at next reading either. Whether it's $30,000, $50,000, or half a million, that's what we're gonna do with a hand on the Bible today, I can't tell you because there's no basic data. But it's clear that no matter who you're talking to today, it's said that this order of magnitude is not 7 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U135	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U136	Good manager! Good waitress! Thomas asked my question, but I'm still asking why you came here to fool poor Thomas and the others. Your signature's on this bill, too. If you know that 7 million doesn't stink, but I don't know how much that money really is, the money minister is your party partner, the last one really messed up when he said we're not losing anything with the increase in alcohol duty, but no 100 or 200 million went like a nigga, then why do you come out with such a bill and write down a number you don't even believe? Thomas, poor thing, and me and the others are gonna be a little stupid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U137	Good Peter, thank you for a good question. I suggest, Peter, that you not only ask, but also read the bill and read the explanatory statement, which says 7 million. It is very clear here that the Ministry of Finance has based its assessment of loss of income on Statistics Estonia's data on household expenditure on public transport, etc. This is not the Commission's decision; the Commission must always ask the cost side of the ministry. The Ministry has given an answer in which he also very clearly explains that this is not an exact answer, but it is an order of magnitude. Point 7 of the explanatory memorandum can be read more about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U138	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear colleague Aivar! In order for this to be balanced, I am trying to protect public transport, which is free of charge, from the fact that people have definitely embraced it. In fact, public transport has been subsidised for decades or at least years, so nothing very revolutionary has happened. But I didn't hear anything about the network. In fact, public transport centres will receive 3.3 million this year for the development of the network, 7 million next year and the same amount, or 3.3, in the last ten years. That's what I'm gonna ask you. Both of these are good things, what you're doing right now is a very good thing for sure, but whether we have the right to contrast in this way at all, a commercial line versus free public transport, which is within the county and which is very important for counties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U139	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U140	Thank you. First of all, this law does not contradict, it creates equal opportunities and conditions. It is also good for me to say here to Thomas that if he looks at my behaviour at the votes, he will see that I did not vote in favour of free public transport. Why don't you take a look at the verbatim? We know what the situation is. That's right, who likes one thing and who doesn't get to argue about it. Political promises and understandings are like that. I can't say that one is worse or better, whether someone likes it or not. If there's anything free, I want to know who the person doesn't want it. The only thing that matters to the Estonian state and people is that it would be a proper public transport, so that it would be possible to travel to different places, different regions, just when people want to drive. It's a long way to go. I know from the time I was a governor, that every year there were still crowns, right, Thomas, when we county elders were in Jõgevamaa million and a little more money to improve the network. This has been the case over the years, it is not the case that this year is more than last year. Just the numbers are different, now there are euros instead of kroons, and there are other cost numbers. So today we are debating public transport in a court of law whether it is good or not. I don't think we should be doing this in this hall. This train is gone, the court will decide whether or not we have to come back to this issue in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U141	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs! This bill is certainly necessary and employers and members of the Chamber of Commerce are also very fond of it. But as Chairman of your Committee on Rural Affairs, do you think there should be a follow-up to this bill? Are you working to further ease the tax burden on employers in the coming months?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U143	Thank you, Krista! You should be more specific about your question. Do you mean tax incentives in this area in general? Our committee has taken the heart of rural life, and one important point is definitely public transport. We must see here in the Riigikogu that it is good for the people of Estonia to live in Estonia. We need to make sure that, regardless of the area in which the company has set up its own business, it has the same conditions here, there and in the third place. In Tallinn, all citizens of Tallinn have free transport; the painting does not have this possibility; there are also commercial lines. We should create as much as possible a level playing field for the development of entrepreneurship and, at the same time, equal conditions for our people to go to work and come home from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U144	Mr Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, there are no further questions for you. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U145	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this item at its regular meeting on 10 September. Ten members of the Commission were present, one missing. The draft was presented by Mr Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, on behalf of the initiators. Inger Greenbaum, chief specialist of the tax policy department of the Ministry of Finance, was also present. Aivar, in the Commission, said practically the same thing as he did in the introduction here. The government representative, Mrs Greenbaum, announced that the government would support this draft, well, with comments. If there is a wish afterwards, I will also talk about these comments. Then there was a debate in the Commission. It was said that it was, of course, very nice to hear about it as a line, not a question that this bill is supposed to violate our common tax space. Such a compliment can rarely be heard that he is united. So, there was a discussion about this, too, that it was a line that could create a precedent for other parties to the process to have the opportunity to demand some kind of compromise. There was a question that if an employer launches a bus, like a school bus, would there be a special discount tax. It was made clear what was stated in the law that, in the case of a bus within the meaning of the law or a car with at least eight seats, there would be no such requirement for a special premium. The last topic that was discussed was about cafes and restaurants. They stop working late and workers disperse in their homes when public transport no longer works. Does this bill concern taxis? The answer was, of course, it doesn't concern taxis. In my opinion, the answer is already in the text of this draft, which talks about public transport and the price of tickets. Public transport and the price of the ticket, that is, first and foremost, the bus. I would like to comment on what was said here during the previous speech. Spending. The Ministry of Finance did not find any other option and they took the transport costs of all Estonian households to work and work. It's 11 million next year, it's supposed to be. If absolutely everyone pays a special preferential tax, this amount will amount to 7 million. First of all, of course, you understand that not everyone pays, I would say that at least three-quarters will not deal with it. Secondly, with regard to households and public transport, it was incomprehensible that we still specify between two readings, whether they were also taxis. Secondly, there was mention in this Chamber of income foregone due to excise duties. One colleague mentioned that it was EUR 200 million or EUR 100 million. In itself, the difference between EUR 100 and EUR 200 million is already funny. However, yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we were listening to the summer forecast, according to which our losses due to alcohol excise duty lost this year amount to EUR 48 million. This is a very serious amount, which is very unfortunate, but it is not 100 million, not to mention 200 million. Okay. At the end of the debate, four decisions were taken by consensus (all in favour): to appoint a rapporteur for the Commission before you, to propose to the Bureau that this draft be put on the agenda today, 18 September, to leave 10 days for the amendments to be tabled, i.e. the deadline of 2 October at 5.15 p.m. and to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U146	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U147	Thank you. Thank you very much. Please, would you still explain or give an overview of the comments made by the Government of the Republic? You said the Government of the Republic supported, but with comments. What were these comments, what did they agree with, and what did they not agree with?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U148	The Government of the Republic did not agree with the desire to launch the same system for a mode of transport such as taxis. In any case, I have here in EMS this is, of course, available in a letter signed by Toomas Tõnis. When I'm done, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U149	Mr. Stalnukhin, there are no further questions for you. Now, at first reading, there's a speech in Inara Luiga.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U150	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that a similar draft law was tabled by the Social Democratic Party ten years ago, not exactly the same, but a draft law on this subject. The emphasis was the same: the costs incurred by a worker in going to work and coming from work could be compensated by the employer and not paid for. Another objective was also that anyone who could use public transport at any rate would do so because it would also be an environmentally friendly way of life. Some things take longer in this world, but now we have come to this point again. At the moment, the situation in our country is such that many have the opportunity to use public transport free of charge. People on Earth have taken it very nicely. If we were quite pessimistic here about how this free public transport arrangement would work, how people would accept it and whether there would be passengers, then the real situation is that passengers on county lines would not fit in buses. Rather, the focus is that buses should be clean and all passengers who use free public transport should also fit into buses. Today there was criticism from this hall that we should rather focus on the routes and develop the network. I went to all those meetings that were connected to free public transport. Believe me, the Ministry of Economic Affairs itself acknowledged that the analysis of the networks has not yet been carried out in Estonia. So this is exactly the kind of forward-looking activity that takes into account the needs of the passengers and organises the line networks. As far as the situation of the tax system is concerned, if an employee takes a ride in his own private car to work, the employer will, to a certain extent, compensate him for the cost. If a person uses public transport free of charge, there will actually be no cost on either side, neither on the job nor on the employer, because certain costs are borne by the state. This draft law is intended to reduce the employer's costs, i.e. if an employee uses commercial lines in certain cases and spends it, the employer will compensate him for it, but the employer will no longer have to pay the special bonus tax. I was shocked today to read the opinion of the reform party Kaja Kallas that free public transport is a waste of completely unnecessary money in Estonia. A person who lives only in his own bubble, who has no vision of the situation in the country, how they live, how they work, and what needs there are. In my opinion, there are two very important aspects to this whole issue. All these legislative proposals, as well as reducing labour shortages and unemployment, will be addressed. Those people who do not have a job take higher risks, going further to work, knowing that the employer will compensate them for these costs. Employers also have a greater opportunity to offer jobs to people living further away. The Social Democratic Party supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U151	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U152	Ladies and gentlemen, In the Commission, this draft was unanimously supported by the entire composition, so the question arises as to whether or not there is still a need to speak here. Nevertheless, what Inara was talking about, isn't it, that there is no need for free public transport, as Mrs Kallas, the eminent representative of our fellow Members, says, makes us think. I have repeated Jerzy Lec's excellent point several times here: the length of a minute also depends on which side of the toilet you are on. If you don't use public transport, it doesn't occur to you that you need free public transport and that there are people who have the chance. If you are in favour of this, you will wonder if free public transport is created because Tallinn lives so well and is so rich that it can afford it, or if Tallinn lives so well, Tallinn is so rich because all measures are being taken in Tallinn to ease the burden on both entrepreneurs and employees. So I see in this bill Estonia outside Tallinn what do you call it? to increase the possibilities of the province. We are doing something that is already in use in a certain part of the country. We give more opportunities to the employer. We are giving the opportunity to create jobs, perhaps because of this, somehow to improve the working environment. So it's a very useful, very useful bill. One minus is that we really do not know exactly how to calculate the costs associated with the adoption of this law. We are, of course, trying to do this in the Commission, but the Group of the Estonian Central Party is currently supporting this draft and thinks that it is also worth doing so in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U153	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 648. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 648 amendments, including 2 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U154	Let's go to the fourth item on the agenda. First reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. The rapporteur is Helmen Kütt, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U155	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to introduce you to the draft law initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, which is draft law amending the Social Welfare Act 649. A little maybe to refresh your memory. In October 2017, the Chancellor of Justice addressed the Riigikogu with a proposal to bring Article 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act into line with the Constitution. According to the Chancellor of Justice, this part of § 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act is not in accordance with the Constitution, which does not allow a person present in a welfare institution, with the support of the state, to obtain the necessary aids, putting him in a different and unequal position compared to a needy person living at home. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice at its meeting on 27 October 2017 and the Commission agreed to this proposal. The consultation was also continued on 6 November 2017. The Riigikogu plenary supported the Chancellor of Justice's proposal on 14 November 2017. It was voted in favour of 78 delegates, there were no respondents or abstentions. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, the Chairman of the Riigikogu instructed the Social Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the Social Welfare Act § 47 (3) into line with the Constitution. The Social Affairs Committee has discussed the initiation of the draft at several of its meetings, in cooperation with representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Chancellor of Justice and welfare institutions, and at its meeting on 31 May it decided to initiate a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act. Further discussions continued. Perhaps only so much more I will specify that the last debate, where procedural decisions were also made, took place on 10 September, but perhaps it would also be good to recall what is then the purpose of this law. This is very simple: to ensure that the state's participation in the purchase or hiring of aids is compensated for by a person living in the same home as a person living in a care establishment. Of course, the Commission would have liked this to have happened earlier, for example, from 1 July 2018, but it must also look very seriously at the financial resources. If this draft law becomes law, the amendment will enter into force on 1 January 2019. In the meantime, additional resources have been found in the discussions on the budgetary strategy and this promise or opportunity is covered by funds. Implementation earlier, as I have also mentioned as an example, on 1 July 2018, would have created a deficit of almost EUR 750000 in this year's budget. Taking into account that the average monthly sales and rent compensation cost of the entire facility service is EUR 720000, a deficit of EUR 750000 would have meant that the compensation of the facilities would have been suspended for all entitled persons and for all such facilities, for example, in the last month of the year. Or, as an alternative, an extended circle of ISO codes, such as diapers code, would have been closed in an equivalent budgetary amount from 1 July, which would not have been reasonable or correct. As a result, the officials of the Office of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Social Affairs Committee and the Chancellor of Justice cooperated and the results of the state budget negotiations were also taken as a basis. If, together, we turn the draft into a law, we vote and we support it, then, from 1 January 2019, the inequalities that have existed so far have been eliminated. There are two tables in the draft material and in the explanatory memorandum. These are the annexes to the so-called draft explanatory memorandum. There is a three-page table stating the receipt of the advantage by the State and a one-page table, Table No 2, which states what is guaranteed by the institution within the service. Surely, after the entry into force of this law, no nursing home can be opened so that there is only an empty room and a person comes with his bed, chair, diapers and everything. It's not conceivable. Equal treatment is guaranteed. On 10 September including the Social Affairs Committee, the following procedural decisions were taken: We had a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 18 September, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 2 October at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint the chairman of the committee, Mr Kütt, as rapporteur. All these decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U156	Good Commissioner, there is at least one question for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U157	Good manager! Good waitress! Remind us of what the Chancellor of Justice made that appeal a year ago. How did this problem come to the Chancellor of Justice, and what was the specific problem that caused this appeal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U158	Thank you. Certainly one of the reasons for which it was born, I cannot answer for the Chancellor of Justice, possibly there were other visits, was the so-called Daisy-Pleier problem in the ERR. A person at home could have rented exactly the same device for 40 to 50 euros, with an amount of 400 to 500 euros in a nursing home. I'll give you those sums by heart. I'm not quite sure it was the only turn. Thank you to the press for raising this problem and enlightening the general public. Certainly this was also one of the reasons why the Chancellor of Justice approached the Riigikogu with this problem, but I do not rule out that there were previous appeals. It would have been better to ask the Chancellor of Justice this in the context of today's presentation, but this is my current answer, so much as I can comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U159	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! The Social Affairs Committee has done a good job; this bill is certainly important and necessary. However, this bill also contains a very precise definition of what tools are to be compensated for and which are not. Has and how much welfare institutions themselves been involved in these discussions, precisely in making the difference between what is to be compensated and what is not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U161	Thank you very much. The members of the board of directors of the care institutions were involved. After all, we will have discussions between two more readings, and we will definitely involve them. But just before they started, they were involved. If there was nothing in nursing homes before, as I said, there is now a table on three pages. With the help of the state and the benefit, it is now possible to receive aids equally with the person living at home. The fact that certain aids are added over the years to the list of aids and to these tables, or some aids will disappear from it because they will be better and the aids will be replaced is a common process. This is the work of the Ministry of Social Affairs and these lists are, in fact, always confirmed by an additional regulation. So in this sense, this addition, which is on two pages here, is what we are going to apply for at least next year. The principle will be that the list will still change at exactly the same principle that, just as in the home, it will be possible to obtain aids with the support of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U162	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U163	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for doing these things. But in fact, this discrimination lasted for years, and it came out completely by accident. All these diapers, including writing tools, frames, etc., had to be paid for by someone else, discrimination lasted. But who was going to pay for them so far, the 1.5 million a year in general?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U164	Thank you for your question. If I say this honestly, we did not have such a debate in the Commission. As a personal point of view, the price of aids has changed year after year when we are talking about a million and a half, these possibilities have expanded and the list of aids has been extended. I guess it's been solved differently. Very many welfare institutions had also raised some of these items on the list for their own funds. Let's see what you can buy with a discount. There's a laundry glove on the list and a bath cap, forks and candles. In many nursing homes, they actually existed. But it certainly does not make sense that if there are more people who need this aid, some of them sit on the bedside and wait. Secondly, in the case of unfamiliar persons, it was paid by municipalities and, in the case of persons with children and grandchildren, the cost of the nursing home was paid by close relatives. In some cases, the municipality certainly supported, because in fact, several municipalities support people in paying for a nursing home. So that is the answer, but that is exactly the kind of debate we did not have in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U165	Thank you, Madam Chairman of the Commission. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I will close the negotiations because there are no callers. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 649. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 649 amendments, including 2 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U166	Let's go to agenda number five. First reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. For a presentation please address Tiina Kangro, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U167	Ladies and gentlemen, I will then have the pleasure of presenting by the end of the day another draft amending the Social Welfare Act, this time with the amendment of the Administrative Cooperation Act. This is a draft 657 which has also been initiated by the Committee on Social Affairs. Before the Commission decided to initiate it at its meeting on 11 June, we discussed this issue several times with representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Board, and this led to the decision to make these changes. There are very specific and very clear changes to this draft, which should come into force from the beginning of the new year when we process this draft to the end, and which would, in a few ways, produce very concrete results regarding the journey of people with special psychological needs to receive special care services. Special care is a type of social service provided by the state to people who are either mentally ill or who have one of those special features that they cannot cope with their lives on their own, to a lesser or greater extent, because of, for example, intellectual disabilities or other circumstances that hinder their self-sufficiency. I will mention them very briefly so as not to cause a great deal of quiet in the Chamber at the end of the day. In particular, the draft aims to change the situation in which psychiatrists are required to produce formal evidence. It's like a psychiatrist release act, if you say half a joke. As we know, there are quite few psychiatrists in Estonia. There are fewer of them than they would need, given how many of our people have mental disorders, mental problems, the corresponding illnesses. For years, we have had such a procedure that when a person with special psychiatric needs starts applying for special care, he has to get a certificate from a psychiatrist. Then the psychiatrist writes on his proof that he needs this particular special care, he needs specialist support both and so many times a week or six, and that is precisely for this purpose. It's never been written into the law, and it's probably been justified at that point that a big specialist, doctor, would say what a person has to do. In reality, it has looked like this mentally impaired person, if he or she is not independent, has to somehow get his or her guardian, his or her family member, in a way that he or she can get to a psychiatrist's appointment. The order may be six months or longer. When it comes to trouble, you go to a paid psychiatrist, where you can get faster, for which you have to pay 40, 50 or 60 euros. In fact, very often this process, this issue of evidence, looks like the psychiatrist is shaking his head, sighing deeply and saying that again I have to do this post-writing job, so please tell me what I have to write on this certificate. Why is this happening? It is not true that all people in need of special care should be constantly psychiatric patients and should always visit a psychiatrist. Imagine, for example, some people who have already been in need of help or self-absorbed as a result of birth trauma or developmental disorder, for example, have been disturbed by development. If, for example, she has attended a school for children with special needs, studied under a simplified subsistence or care plan, maybe fully cared for, then everything is already clear. If he doesn't have acute psychiatric disorders, then he has no reason to go to a psychiatrist for fun, because that's when the formal evidence comes. Another particular thing that the bill solves is, once again, figuratively speaking, perhaps the hydration of this seven-headed rehabilitation system, the killing of another little headpiece. This concerns the waiver of the requirement for rehabilitation plans in relation to the same special care service. All people, even those who are not familiar with the social field, have over the years heard about this carousel, what we have had because of the poor organisation of rehabilitation services, when people keep going to the rehabilitation service provider to make plans. Making a plan at today's prices costs almost 300 euros. Once again, if there is a requirement that a person needs to have a rake-plan first, then the rake-service provider receives a lot of money for it, but this plan is actually formal. The Social Insurance Board has analysed that 88% of the rehabilitation plans of this target group have been made only to write that this person needs a special care service, which has been once again an intermediate phase in order to receive this service. With this draft, the plan is to take down both the requirement for evidence given by a psychiatrist and the unnecessary use of rake plans so that the national money is lost and people lose their obligation to run around and take them everywhere with copies of these rake plans. These two things will be taken down. So what's in place? In fact, the fact that the Social Insurance Board, which started quite vigorous innovations a year and a half ago and has proved it, at least for now, that they have a greater capacity to deal with matters than before after these fundamental reforms and the taking-up of new management, takes the initiative, through case managers, to bring this information together, to take it out of the systems. God forbid our information systems will work impeccablely at one point. In this case, there would be a case manager at the Social Insurance Board who deals with this person. He or she does not require further evidence from who knows where, but gets acquainted with him or her, meets him or her, discusses matters with the network, takes a decision on what kind of service is needed, where, what kind of specifics and objectives, and receives this decision on the ground. That was the shortest thing to say. As a consequence, this draft has another objective or objective. This has also resulted from the restructuring of the special care system. This concerns the specific question of what to do, how to finance in the future the care of people who are targeted at receiving special care, i.e. actually living in a special care home, before 2001. It was common practice in old times, as you all know, that orphans who did not have real health, as well as many people for other reasons, when they were not eligible to live in society, now the idea that people with disabilities still live in society was directed to a special care home that turned into their home. They were often orphans. Until 2001, the same special care institution was designated as their place of residence with the precision of the municipality or local government unit. It was like he was registered in that nursing home, in that parish. This is not the case today, even in nursing homes, people still live where their real home is. The restructuring of special care has now revealed that a large number of people who have already lived in these special care homes since the dusk of time are already elderly, they are in retirement age, some are not, in fact, so poor that they should receive this service paid round-the-clock at the most expensive price by the state. If they are dealt with a little, they could be guided by regular care in a regular general care home, and in some cases they could also be supported in some other way, so that they could have a place of residence and live there with sufficient help. The question now arises that some municipalities are so lucky that some large nursing homes are being eradicated. There are perhaps 100 people who are said by the special care system that there is no point in keeping them in a special care home, because they are not the right target group, they are better and they are more capable. And now the second law is going to apply, which says that the local government must manage all those in need. Suddenly, for example, one municipality, where this nursing home was eradicated and where perhaps 10, 100 or more such people were left over, has to start paying for their expenses, either in the general care centre or somewhere else. For this reason, on the proposal of the Social Insurance Board, this amendment has been introduced into the bill that if a person has been registered in a special care home before 2001 and he has lived there, but now it is found that he could live elsewhere and receive a service financed by the local government, then the state will continue to pay the cost in order not to be unfair to this municipality. How exactly is this going, we discussed this quite thoroughly at the Social Affairs Committee meeting on 11 September when we prepared this draft for the first reading. In order to remove this formal burden from psychiatrists and control the sprinkling of rake plans, no one had any questions, everyone agreed, after listening to background, facts and statistics. At the last meeting, however, we seriously discussed exactly how the price will be paid by the state to local governments to provide some other service to people who have been admitted to their territory, be it in a general care home or in other ways. The representative of the Social Insurance Board explained to us how they have developed this cost model. They have used the price of special care services and added all kinds of prices on a component basis, from which they have taken out some formula EUR 720 per month and 760 for the following year. The members of the Commission had a number of further questions: how this price will, however, in reality be in line with what service this local authority is actually offering to this person. We know that there are general care homes in local governments, which are very, very different levels and at very different prices from EUR 350 to perhaps more than EUR 1000. If the state now says that we pay 760 in no there is also a person's own ownership of the inside, is that fair and practical? The second question we discussed in the Commission was this. These people, however, are divided as one by one among the general care homes of the local government. The SKA or the Social Insurance Board has a price model completed for them when they have come from a special welfare institution, for this target group, who is accustomed to a service different from the general care service, and has calculated a higher human resources requirement and the price component of the nurse's service and all such things. But if this person goes to the local government general care centre, how is it guaranteed that there will be more mentors, supervisors and additional specialists than the price component says that there will be one employee over 50? If such a person gets caught alone, or if they do, say, five by five in a general care home, how in reality does that money turn into the care provided for by the SCA? We didn't get quite the answers. Formally, the Director General of the Social Insurance Board will confirm these prices and the movement of this money in the future. But we were given the answer that there will be in-depth discussions next week at the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Board, along with other parties involved. So in the future, after the first reading, we can deepen into this. I think it's all about content on my part. There's a lot of details here, but maybe colleagues have an interest in asking. I'm still reading the official section. The proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda was born on 11 September, as has been said. September 18, or today, was assigned to that day. The Commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading and set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 2 October at 5.15 p.m., by which to appoint Mr Kangro, Member of the Commission as rapporteur. All these decisions were consensual. I'm gonna give you the freedom to ask questions now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-18_U168	Thank you, good waitress. Since today's sitting ended 15 minutes ago, we will continue the debate tomorrow at 14 p.m. Thanks, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 1.16 p.m.
