ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 13th working week of the VII plenary session. As always, first there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over a draft law on the amendment of the road transport law. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this today and initiated a draft law amending the Road Transport Act. These are some of the clarifications that derive mainly from European Union law. The list of requirements of good repute for the carrier and the driver is supplemented by one misdemeanour, etc., which is mainly due to European Union legislation. This draft does not entail separate costs for the state budget, but there will be no revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U3	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U4	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching eight draft laws today. First, the draft law on ratification of the Protocols amending the Convention on International Civil Aviation. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the radiation law, the general part of the environmental code and the law amending the law on health and safety at work. Third, the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft Act ratifying the mutual assistance and cooperation agreement on the prevention, preparedness and response of emergencies between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Health Insurance Act. In processing this bill, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour. Sixthly, the draft law amending the General Part of the Civil Code Act and the Law of Obligations Act, the General Part of the Civil Code Act and the Law on the Implementation of the Private International Law Act. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Seventh, the draft law amending the Structural Support Act and other laws for the period 2014 to 2020. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. And eight, the draft law supplementing the Citizenship Act. In processing the draft law in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U5	I have adopted nine drafts and we will deliver them on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 69 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 13th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 68 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there was no one against, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed. Honourable Riigikogu, one reminder for you too. In accordance with a friendly agreement made by the Board of Elders, those who wish to ask a question in Question Time on Wednesday should make their request known by 6 p.m. today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U6	Now, according to the agenda, there is an inquiry by Külliki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams, Krista Aru, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel and Ain Lutsepp. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U7	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! On 22 March, the Free Party Group already submitted a second inquiry into possible transactions between the Government of the Republic and Est-For Invest. We have been greatly helped by the media, which has highlighted the nuances of possible secret agreements, which will certainly not contribute to the development of our entrepreneurial culture or political culture. Namely, the last "Spectator" of March 21 came out of the show that not only has RMK and the Ministry of the Environment been involved in the potential transactions of Est-For Invest, it has actually been a coalition-wide activity. Minister Marko Pomerants of the IRL, Mikhail Korb of the Centre Party, and still in the government of Urve Palo, and Kadri Simson of the Centre Party met with these persons, or representatives of Est-For Invest. Ministers were given 12 conditions on how to proceed in one way or another. Ministers and the government as a whole must continue to support the entire project and make changes to the law. The Planning Act and amendments relating to road transport have already been through this hall this year. And another major change in RMK's policy was called for. If, up to now, fixed-term contracts have been concluded for five years, this project was recommended that agreements should be concluded for at least ten, if not 15 years. Unfortunately, these agreements have also come into being very lightly. We have also asked the Minister for the Environment, Siim Kiisler, about this topic, but he was very comfortable to answer that I was not the minister at the time. Looking at this "Spectator" show I referred to earlier, it is clear that the minister was not quite honest with the members of the Riigikogu. He didn't tell us everything that actually happened during this procedure. Consequently, we have asked questions to the Prime Minister, who is in charge and coordinating the government's activities. He must also be responsible for ensuring that we, as rulers, take politicians as a whole here, governance is transparent and trust-building so that neither our political culture nor our entrepreneurial culture suffers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U8	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U9	President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, I would like to thank once again the Free Party Group, your Members, for raising an important issue. You have asked a total of seven questions. If you don't mind, I'll read the questions and give them the answers. I have decided to give the first three questions a common answer, but I will still read the questions. Your first question: 'What is your attitude and knowledge about the meeting of four ministers with representatives of Est-For Invest in February 2017? Why wasn't there a prime minister at the meeting? " The second question: " How has the government fulfilled its fixed wishes there, and what action plans have been put in place? What budgetary resources have been spent under this cooperation agreement and how much more is planned to be spent? The third question: " Why have the fact of this meeting and the intentions that were born there still not been revealed? ' At a meeting in February 2017, the relevant ministers of the Government of the Republic Urve Palo, Kadri Simson, Mikhail Korb, Marko Pomerants and representatives of the private investor Est-For Invest OÜ discussed investor proposals. The meeting wasn't classified. I repeat, the meeting was not classified. This is, and should be, a practice in which the government seeks to listen to the investor's proposals when designing a major investment potential for the country. The emphasis is on the word 'deliver'. At this meeting, the proposals were discussed, but no cooperation agreement between Est-For Invest OÜ and the Government was fixed or concluded. The parties to the meeting have given their comments to both the public and the press. If you are referring to the cooperation agreement concluded with the Ministry of Finance, signed on 10 July 2017, by the person interested in drawing up the plan, i.e. the applicant Est-For Invest OÜ, which was signed on 10 July 2017, this is a cooperation agreement for drawing up the state's special plan and carrying out the impact assessment, according to which Est-For Invest OÜ will bear the costs of preparing the plan and assessing the impact. According to point 5.3 of this Public Cooperation Agreement, an interested party may cancel the agreement if it renounces the construction of a wood refining plant or if it is obvious that it is not possible to build a wood refining plant in the area covered by the plan. The Government of the Republic, as the initiator and organizer of the drafting of the plan, has the right at any moment to emphasise: at any moment, the right to terminate the drawing-up of the plan properly. Failure to state reasons may result in a dispute between the State and Est-For Invest OÜ and may result in a claim for reimbursement of expenses incurred. To date, Est-For Invest OÜ has not paid for any activities carried out during the preparation of the plan. You can find a cooperation agreement on the website of the Ministry of Finance. The State has so far borne modest costs in terms of the notification of a special planning consultant for the wood refining plant, the assessment of the impact of the plan and the announcement of a public procurement for the purchase of the known research service. Question 4: "What is your assessment that both the Ministry of the Environment and the investors of a potential pulp mill are simultaneously using the same law firm for the same site? What have your recommendations been to the Minister for the Environment after coming to know this fact in February this year? 'The Ministry of the Environment does not use the same law firm as the founders of the planned refinery in matters relating to the refinery. Ellex Raidla's law firm has produced a working version of the protocol on the intentions of Est-For Invest and the State Forest Management Centre (RMK). RMK has ordered a legal assessment from Lillo & Partners, which is available to everyone in the document register on RMK's website. Ellex Raidla's law firm has not been used by the Ministry of the Environment in connection with Est-For Invest. Let me add so much that I was in contact today with the leader of RMK, who said that Mr Jüri Raidla did not have contracts in force at RMK. Question 5: 'In accordance with the wishes of investors, the policy of the State Forest Management Centre's long-term contracts was significantly amended. Have you been informed about such activities? Was and what was the discussion in the cabinet? " RMK sells timber on the basis of Regulation No 1 of the Government of the Republic of Estonia of 4 January 2007 on the "Procedure of cutting rights and the sale of timber in the state forest', which was last amended in 2014. In accordance with the terms and conditions set by that regulation and the RMK Development Plan 2015, approved by the Supervisory Board of RMK, the Management Board of RMK has established, by decision of 11 August 2015, a wood sales strategy for RMK for the years 2015 to 2020. The strategy is valid, it is available on RMK's public website and no changes have been made in the interim period. Neither the sustainability agreement nor the intention protocol on the sale of timber has been concluded between Est-For Invest and RMK. Question 6: 'Investors have pointed out that similar agreements and public investment have been made in favour of investors in the past. Please indicate for which objects similar arrangements have been made. How much have they cost the state? Please also mention those items that have not materialised, but the government, together with the Parliament's coalition, has created its own opportunities. ' The purpose of the intention protocols and validity agreements is to ensure price and commodity stability for both the forest owner, who is in this case the Republic of Estonia, as well as the timber processor. It is the interest of the State to have long-term contracts that ensure a stable price for timber directly from the state forest, but also indirectly for other forest owners, as long-term contracts take into account the market prices for the sale of timber. RMK uses 85% of the total volume of long-term contracts, which are mostly concluded for a five-year period, but there are also exceptions to the sale of timber. At its meeting on 25 January 2000, the Government of the Republic discussed state measures to establish a pulp mill in Estonia. During the meeting, the state-supported conditions for the establishment of a pulp plant were approved, including the readiness to enter into a market-market supply contract in the volume to be agreed and the readiness to negotiate on land and infrastructure issues. The Minister of Economic Affairs was tasked with resolving further questions regarding the pulp mill, which led the Minister of Economic Affairs to draw up a letter to potential investors with an invitation to build a modern pulp mill in Estonia. In the letter, potential interested parties were informed of Estonia's readiness to deliver 1.1 million cubic metres of paperwood to the future investor from the state forest at market price, with a duration contract of 10 to 20 years. As a result, in 2001 a 15-year contract was concluded with Estonian Cell AS (wood pulp mill in Kunda) for the supply of 140000 cubic metres of wood per year. The contract was preceded by a letter of intent to Larvik Cell AS, Norway, in support of the construction of a wooden mass plant. The experience gained with Estonian Cell has given assurance that a long-term and mutually-interesting contract will have a positive impact on the timber market. The previously low demand and jump market price wound wood is now stable in terms of price fluctuations. The existence of long-term contracts will help to plan resource use more effectively and secure the market for the wood of the state forest. In order to explain the mutual interest of the plans, RMK has concluded, for example, a modern plywood industry in Kohila (OÜ Kohila Vineer), as well as Imaverre and Osula for the construction of granules plants (AS Granul Invest). The draft minutes were signed in 2011 with AS Latvijas Finier and a five-year long-term contract with Kohila Vineer in 2012. As a result, Kohila has a modern factory that has created more than 260 jobs. A draft protocol and a five-year long-term agreement for the establishment of the Osula pellet plant in 2013 and a draft plan for the establishment of the new Imavere pellet plant in 2014 and a five-year long-term agreement in 2016. Let us now move on to your seventh question, which reads: 'What are your conclusions and action plans as Prime Minister in the light of this case? ' At the meeting of the Government Office on 5 April 2018, the government took note of the information provided by the Minister of Public Administration regarding the visit of the City of Tartu to prepare a special plan for the State of the wood refining plant and decided that it was necessary to ensure the involvement of local government units in the planning process in accordance with the Planning Act. If you will allow me, I repeat: the government has decided that it is necessary to ensure that local government units are involved in the planning process in accordance with the planning law. We also decided unanimously that, if necessary, we would involve external experts. Firstly, I have said that this plant cannot be built at the expense of the environment. The Ministry of the Environment takes the view that without studies, there is no reason to argue that the establishment of a plant would impede the achievement of the objectives set out in the Water Management Plans. However, if the strategic environmental assessment of the proposed plant reveals that the construction of the plant hinders the achievement of the objectives of the Water Act, it is not possible to issue an environmental permit for the plant to operate the waste water under such conditions and the plant cannot be built. Secondly, I have also expressed the opinion that municipalities have a crucial role to play in the planning process. This is confirmed by the decision of the Cabinet. The Ministry of Finance must take into account the development documents and established plans of the local government when preparing the plan. Once again, I would like to thank you very much for bringing this matter up again. I hope that the debate will not subside here, but that we will always keep a very vigilant eye on the subject. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U10	Questions for the Prime Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U11	Thank you, Chairman. Good Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Unfortunately, the question of your awareness of the meeting between four ministers and representatives of Est-For Invest remained unanswered. Were you aware of this, and if so, what were your so-called referrals to this meeting? You said it wasn't a classified meeting. However, when the show was made, all the materials and information came from under the so-called floor. I'm saying that the wish to state what you're saying has come after this show. Why are you saying this wasn't a classified meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U12	Thank you. I'm really saying it wasn't a classified meeting because it wasn't a classified meeting. I can't tell you anything else here if you're asking me if I'm aware of the various ministerial meetings. In addition to me, there are 14 active women and men in the government, active ministers. You said here your questioning about two ministers, about being in the government. You must have meant Urve Palo and Kadri Samson. After all, this is shown by the time they are in government, and that is what our highest authority will tell us what will happen next. So I don't know if it's worth the irony. No, I do not know all the ministerial meetings of the Government of the Republic, and that is not the task of the Prime Minister. Next, whether it is important for me to have an environment for investment and investment in Estonia. Yes, it is important for both Estonian investors and foreign investors. Every day we do not have a situation where someone says he is willing to contribute EUR x million. And instead of this x, we're now saying a Circa billion euros. In addition, we must think that the export of unprocessed roundwood will end. I also see the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment here, and I believe he will agree. This is actually important: the more we can earn roundwood and then take it out, the better for the Estonian economy, because it will certainly create highly paid jobs. So this government direction, I would even dare to say that the proactive direction to work with the private sector is, and I say frankly, to help invest in Estonia, too, does not mean taking a thing under the table or illegal solutions. This means legal solutions that really support businesses. Businesses often say that bureaucracy is the biggest problem. I am pleased that, at a time when I have had the opportunity and the honour of working as Prime Minister, we have also set up a Committee on Economic Development. There we have discussed very much specific investments by legal and natural persons on how to tackle the obstacles to these investments. And, of course, not in secret or around the corner, on the contrary, in public. If you're asking me if I knew there was going to be such a meeting on that date and at this hour, I most likely didn't know, but I don't see any problem with that either. We've been discussing this with a lot of different people. I have always said that I think the country should be a proactive partner here. A proactive partner means, on the one hand, that research should be facilitated. The taxpayer, as we know, does not take the lead in carrying out these analyses and studies. And after that, we have to decide what happens to the investment. So I think that, if possible, it is important to do these things, but I stress that it is not at the expense of the environment. On the other hand, of course, what I just said is also important if we are able to earn some very important Estonian resource, to increase its value.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U13	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Last week there were experts from the Council of Europe's Anti-Corruption Unit (GRECO) in Estonia who highlighted, among other things, the recommendations made by Artur Talvik on the initiative of the members of the Riigikogu to communicate with interest groups. At the same time, it was noted that the Estonian Government does not have rules for such lobbying at all. If I look at this case now, I think this is just an example of where information about the fact of the meeting is extremely important. Perhaps if a representative of the interest group turned to four ministers, there would be a written record. That trail wasn't really public until the Spectator show. And the big problem is that the members of the Riigikogu didn't know when these drafts started coming here before us. Do you consider such a situation to be right and do you think that the rules of lobbying to make such meetings public would be reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U15	Thank you. I'll start with recognition first. I think Artur Talvik has been and continues to be an active member of the Riigikogu. I, too, have been able to be his official here in the XIII Riigikogu. I believe that he has done his job and is passionate about it. That's point one. Point two. The size of Estonian society and state must be our trump card. I sincerely think that our trump card is flexibility, that in certain cases we can also deal with individual cases. I remember when I was a quite young boy reading one of these titles or the idea that Lennart Meri, the President of the Republic of Estonia at the time, is doing everything to make sure that the BMW car factory comes to Estonia. I don't even know if he met them or didn't meet them, but the idea was probably to promote Estonia. I guess the President then thought it would give us more knowledge, it would give us more jobs, it would give us more economy. So I continue to think that Estonia must actively do this kind of work. We have a Committee on Economic Development. When I meet representatives of our External Action Service and, for example, the people of EAS, I have quite often asked whether we can fix on certain markets that we are going to this or another company to make such a proactive offer, yes, come to Estonia, invest in Estonia! I think that's a reasonable solution. Then what have I done personally? I have been working with the EAS, our External Action Service, or embassies, and with the State Chancellery. These have taken place in, for example, Helsinki and Hamburg, Germany, and we have invited entrepreneurs who are already investing in Estonia and entrepreneurs who could have a potential interest in investing in Estonia. I have met all of them face to face and asked what is your biggest concern or barrier in choosing our market, in making investments in the Republic of Estonia. I can't tell you whether or not it's against the rules of lobby, but I've really done it in good faith to get these investments. I haven't promised them anything illegal or anything under the table. On the contrary, I have said that we must contribute here. It must be acknowledged that, as a rule, most foreign investors state one thing: their greatest request relates to the issue of skilled labour. They talk a lot about information technology, but they also refer very much to the lack of an engineering-educated workforce. If you are talking about making some kind of rule to the government, I think the biggest transparency guarantor is the Riigikogu. Could the exchange of information be better? It could always be better. I don't know what you want, Mr. Herkel. Are we gonna send you a memo for each meeting, or are we gonna send you our calendars? Honestly, I don't quite understand what you want, because business meetings are quite often. If you want, we can start doing it, but I don't think you have time to read everything. On the other hand, the press is always the one who makes sure it is balanced. In my opinion, the current government must be governed by law and justice, by our laws and by our rules. And my appeal to the ministers has always been whether we are betting ourselves or waiting here in Estonia for someone to call us. Are we going abroad to knock on a company's door? Are we looking for an investment site in this sector in any European country or in the rest of the world, and are we going there to offer Estonia? I think we should do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U16	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I believe that neither the city of Tartu nor anyone in this hall opposes the need for investment in Estonia. And your proactive action on finding such investments is fully recognised. However, we are in a situation where the city of Tartu has decided to appeal against the government. How do you think it would have been possible to prevent this investment from coming here without contradictions, without problems and without undertaking the courts of one of the largest cities in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U18	If I knew the answer, I'd tell you right now. I'm sorry, I just want to say that I don't think there's a reason to have a date, like March 3, 2019, if you choose randomly. I don't think that's why. But I hope that this possibility of anyone being able to go to court will continue to apply, and this is the hallmark of a democratic society. There is nothing wrong with defending your rights or trying to find out in court. And I have said it from this opposition bench, but I also say it from the coalition's ranks that I trust the Estonian judicial system. What could have been done differently? You can always say you could have done more explaining. I read that the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu visited a similar factory in Äänekosk, Finland. Perhaps the Tartu people could also have had some such trips for the people of Tartu city council and city government, representatives of Tartu civil society. We're always smarter after all, but we can't turn back time. I'm sure the flow of information could have been better. On the other hand, I also watched this public hearing of the Tartu City Council. For example, there was a professor at the University of Tartu, Mr Varblane, who said that if we want to be like the Nordic countries, Finland or Sweden, there are probably dozens of such factories in Finland. So we should look into it. When I looked at the interview of the newly elected Rector of the University of Tartu on "Actual Camera" a few days ago, he takes office on August 1, the strength for him! Then they asked him what he was going to do, whether he wasn't. As always in the press: black or white. I think he said that the University of Tartu is ready to contribute to these studies with its scientists, professors. I do not know any politicians today who would say that this factory will definitely be there, or that factory will certainly not be there. At least I didn't say that. Maybe we could have done more groundwork. But, frankly, I sense that at some point we must not take any further steps in Estonia, the wave of protests is very powerful. The new minister can no longer be appointed: one is not suitable, the other is not suitable, the third is not suitable. That's not how we're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U19	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U20	Thank you to the Prime Minister. My message is that there is no reason to be offended. We have not asked questions in the light of the fact that we would suddenly stop encouraging and bringing in large investments. The problem is in such a highly primitive situation as in the culture of administration, how one decision or another can be reached. A small country cannot allow mistrust to arise; our main task must be to keep one as a country. In this case, our population is also more motivated to create businesses and invite people to them. The current culture of affairs suggests that if you don't have any smaller connections and if you don't do it in secret, you're not going anywhere. I would like to comment on a number of responses here and also ask for further questions, the conclusion of contracts with à la Jüri Raidla's law firm and the disclosure of certain documents, obviously after paying attention to the public. After all, the public sought out these materials themselves, worked hard to do so, and then they acted quickly. Can't say it was clean to that. Between 2015 and 2016, on average 500 hectares of grain farmers repeatedly approached me that we would please lose the requirement to carry this special load when we are talking about travelling on the road with combines and trailers. That doesn't make any sense. When attention was drawn to this on several occasions in this Chamber, no one would listen. Once again, some company started to move quickly, although yes, it was really needed for quite a number of sectors. When we addressed this issue last time, we also asked one question, but we did not get a clear answer. Do we first need to have analyses to ensure that environmental requirements are met and to know whether it is feasible, or are we really going to establish a special plan before, as has now been done, and then we are going to do the analyses? This is important to citizens. Here too, various parties pointed out that there was an attempt to communicate with the local government, but there was no contact with the local community, which was more affected by this issue. In essence, this has not been done to date, although citizens should be given the assurance that this project will not harm their living conditions. The representatives of the Tartu region of the Free Party have formed their opinion very clearly here. One of the reasons is that they want to make sure there's no failure. They want to know whether or not half of Estonia's or South-Estonian water resources will be damaged. Perhaps such very basic questions have also arisen. You could try to understand that. Prime Minister, please do not doubt that it is reasonable to turn proactively to the public, to seek contact, to take the initiative. It creates much more trust and promotes our Estonia. Otherwise, we will move towards stagnation, represented by the occupying power. I don't think that's what you want to achieve, that's what you don't want back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U21	The members of the Riigikogu have no more desire to participate in the negotiations, but the Prime Minister does. Please, Jüri Ratas, Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U22	President of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, a special plan shall be drawn up to express, in particular, cross-regional interests in the fields of defence and security, energy, gas, transport, waste management and mineral extraction, or in the areas of public water and economic zone interests mentioned above. I will conclude by saying that I am sincerely grateful. It's for what you used the adjectives, but I am sincerely grateful to you for this raise. I think this is an important subject. The Honorable Chair of the Riigikogu, the Chamber of Riigikogu, is the right place to hold this debate today and I believe that it will continue in the future. This principle, which Mr Herkel was talking about, that more should be spoken to the Riigikogu for God's sake, that is very right. If we learn the results of any analysis, I think that the debate must be continued either in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, in the Committee on the Environment or in any important instance. This debate isn't gonna end here today. We don't know what's really gonna happen to this thing. Now for the analysis. I think it is natural that as important as I have read to you, the country's special plan will be drawn up, because that is when we will find out what it is. I'm not the lawyer at Est-For Invest or the wood refinery. On the one hand, I have to rely on legal advice, but on the other, on what is beneficial for the Estonian economy. First of all, we must be guided by what is good for the Estonian environment and for the people of Estonia. This is what I will do in any case, and I have stated this principle here before the Riigikogu. So thank you and congratulate you! In my opinion, there was no offence in your speech. On the contrary, there was the heartache and concern of the Free Party and the free parties for the people of Estonia and Estonia. And so you must work here in the Riigikogu to find the best solutions for our dear Estonia. Happy Spring Day tomorrow, Labor Day or Volbrian Night, as anyone wishes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U23	I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U24	The next item is the question on our agenda, submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Külmiki Kübarsepp and Andres Ammas. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U25	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister of Culture, Good people's representatives! Six members of the Free Party submitted their questions on 19 March. This inquiry was directly motivated by a written address to the Minister of Culture, the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu and the Minister of Education and Research. The address was signed by the Estonian Choir Leaders' Association, the Estonian Choir Association, the Song and Dance Party Foundation and the Estonian Music Teachers' Association. The only question of this appeal was not the unworthy remuneration of our choir, orchestra and dance leaders; it was written about the concern for the preservation of our tradition of singing and dance. I know that Mr. Minister for Culture has responded in writing to the address on 17 April. He has tried to explain the steps of the Ministry of Culture and also made suggestions on how problems could be solved. He has formulated questions about the salaries of orchestras, choirs and dance directors and explained the new possible model of their salaries and also stressed the fact that, in fact, this issue of wages is largely a matter of local authority competence. The Minister has also proposed the possibility that a round table could be convened on this issue. However, as I have already mentioned in the introduction, the preservation of the tradition of song and dance is one of the key issues at the moment in its sustainability in a decades-long view. We do not have the right to come together to rejoice and show exuberant feelings only at a song festival. It must be acknowledged that the work being done in preparation for a song and dance is actually a long process. This is a long-lasting day-to-day big job, and we must not underestimate the people who are in charge of this work. Rather, we must give them more recognition and support than those who carry one of the core values of our culture. We have five specific questions for the Minister for Culture. I am kindly willing to ask that he himself read these questions, for it will be easier to follow the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U26	Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U27	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As requested by the representative of the heirs, I will do: I will read out the question and answer it. The first question: 'What has been done so far specifically to address the problems raised by choir and orchestra leaders (with whom dance leaders are also solidarity)? Why have the solutions proposed so far not improved the situation? " Surely the good questioners know that the subject has been discussed before, that there have been joint sittings at the table and that solutions suitable for the parties have also been found. In 2006, it was decided to set up a programme of action support for the collectives involved in the singing and dance process. On the proposal of the Estonian Song and Dance Party Foundation, the Estonian Choir Association and the Estonian Folk Dance and Folk Music Society, the payment of additional remuneration was stopped from the programme's resources in 2010 and the direction was taken to support other types of expenditure of the collective activities. On 15 March of this year, the Ministry of Culture proposed to the Estonian Song and Dance Party Foundation and its partners, as a result of this visit, to reconsider the terms of the programme and, if necessary, to propose, for example, to restart the payment of the premium to collective leaders. At the same time, we should certainly ask ourselves whether the tradition of Estonian singing and dance is not so viable because it is not built on the "top-down" principle, the government commands, orders and pays up the grassroots level. Therefore, if we want the traditions of song and dances to continue over time, we should not cut off the voluntary contribution of communities and the role of local governments. The state can come to the rescue and, if possible, it will come to the rescue. In this regard, we have not only taken the initiative but also achieved concrete results. The interest support system, which was set up under the leadership of the Ministry of Culture, was launched last September. The EUR 15 million granted to local governments are aimed at developing activities of interest and education of interest and can help local authorities to support, among other things, the activities related to singing and dance. The rise in teachers' salaries, at least to the average wage level in Estonia, is also a measure that helps to ensure that many choir leaders have an increase in wages, many of which are music teachers. The government has decided that next year the minimum wage for teachers will rise to EUR 1250. As a minister, my top priority has been the increase in the pay of cultural workers. It is true that this concerns only cultural workers in the administration of the Ministry of Culture, but it also sets an example for municipalities. I am pleased to note that the largest local government in Estonia has already taken part in the wage increase, and I very much hope that others will make it their priority. The second question: 'What do you think is the social weight of problems? Is and what is the responsibility of only one ministry, or is it high time to include social and public administration in the development of the solution in addition to cultural and educational areas? Who's supposed to take the initiative here? ' The tradition of the Estonian Song and Dance Festival is an important part of our people's own knowledge, identity, and it is not and cannot be in the interests of one minister or ministry, but in the interests of the whole country and nation in general. That is why the address of the choir leaders was directed not only to the Riigikogu Committee on Culture and the Ministry of Culture, but also to the Minister of Education and Research, as well as to the Minister of State Administration. Local authorities should certainly be included among the addressees, as they also have an integral role to play in maintaining these traditions. We have taken the initiative and proposed that the Estonian Song and Dance Party SA be the leader of the process-based and sustainable functioning of the Song and Dance Party. As participants of the roundtable, we will certainly see representatives of local governments, the Estonian Choir Association, the Estonian Folk Dance and Folk Music Association, the Ministry of Education and Research, as well as the Central Organisation of the Labour Associations, or TALO, in short. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the letter from the choir leaders expresses concern about the preparation of the party in 2034 and seeks a long-term solution. This gives us the opportunity and the responsibility to analyse the situation thoroughly, to consider all options and to propose a well thought-out and long-term solution for the future. But, of course, we have to start now. The third question: 'Have you, and when have you formulated the need for the training of choir and orchestra leaders to be reflected in the training orders and financing contracts made by the Ministry to choirs (Theatre and Music Academy, Viljandi Culture Academy of the University of Tartu, Tallinn University, Music School called H.Eller, Tallinn Music School called G.Ots)? What are the results? ' Just as the Ministry of Culture does not say how many actors or archaeologists need to be trained, we do not say how many choir leaders per year should come from schools. The growing participation in culture and, at the same time, a country with a shrinking population, this is certainly a major challenge for us, because enough competent people must be found for all disciplines. Choir management is no exception and attention should be paid to it. The Ministry of Education and Research will conclude agreements to this effect with the educational institutions, taking into account labour market needs, the country's strategic objectives, sector-related studies and forecasts, the capacity of schools and the wishes of learners. Here we again come to the conclusion that, as long as the data set up in this area is more declaratory, it will be very difficult to provide concrete solutions. As mentioned, we have already commissioned the Estonian Song and Dance Party Foundation to convene the parties concerned in order to achieve a thorough and relevant analysis. On the basis of this, it is already possible to develop, in cooperation with both the Ministry of Education and Research and local authorities, an operational financing model and to create prerequisites for ensuring the succeeding growth of choir and orchestra leaders. The Ministry of Culture is fully prepared to think along in this process and advise representative organisations. One bottleneck is, for example, the weak application of the professional system. Less than 10% of choir leaders have a professional category, which is why a logical circle of competence does not function, ensuring that the professional system links the labour market to the education system. Question 4: "What link do you see in the work of choir, orchestra and dance leaders in the spiritual upbringing of society, in shaping social-political attitudes, in deepening the healthy way of life? ' A thorough sociological study conducted in 2013 showed that the tradition of singing and dance in Estonia is very strong and viable. The absolute majority, 96% of those questioned considered the party to be an important event, while 63% considered it to be very important. The tradition of song and dance festivals is part of the world's spiritual heritage and is also included in the UNESCO list of cultural heritage. Both the internationality of tradition and the attitudes of the Estonian people confirm that the tradition of song and dance festivals is the bearer of our identity. I asked my work shadows today the same question. This is Jan Robert Janson of Tallinn 32. From high school he is currently listening to our discussion at the balcony and Katrin Eikin Sein from Jakob Westholm Gymnasium. Both are, of course, students, and both have participated in singing parties themselves. Cathrin Eikin sings in the ETV Girls' Choir. I asked them what a song party meant, and they said that it would create a sense of cohesion and help, among other things, to take our small country to the map of the world. So, of course, it has an important role to play. Question 5: 'Remuneration of the work of the heads of schools, orchestras and dances is to be borne by the participants themselves in the case of adults and by the local government, school or parents in the case of children and young people. Does the Minister consider it necessary to lay down any general criteria or principles for remuneration to be worthy of the actual national meaning and value of the work? What is the starting point for these criteria? What do you think would be the reward for the work of a choir or orchestra director? ' As I have already said, the greatest concern about solving the problem is that there is no good situation. The Minister of Education and Research also replied on 5 April on the request of the Ministry of Culture that they had no information on the remuneration of choir and orchestra directors. That is why, unfortunately, I can only give you a general answer today. Ensuring a decent wage for cultural workers has been, in my view, and is, still very important. I would like to remind you that in 2015, the minimum wage for a highly educated cultural worker was EUR 731. From next year, it will have to rise to EUR 1250, so the four-year wage increase will be EUR 519 or 71%. I am convinced that highly qualified people who work daily and full-time to make Estonian culture live and develop must receive at least the average salary in Estonia. As you are well aware, the Minister of Culture cannot set rates of pay for employees of the local government level and the Ministry of Education and Research. I do very much support the fact that municipalities can reach agreements similar to the TALO between the Ministry of Culture and the TALO. Such an agreement would make it possible to lay down specific criteria and qualification requirements. Thank you very much for raising this very important issue. I also hope that you will also help in finding viable, justified and sustainable solutions. As I have pointed out, this requires the cooperation of many actors. But I am convinced that the will to give a fortress in the form of a decent salary to choir, orchestra and dance leaders exists in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U28	Questions for the Minister. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U29	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Minister. To begin with, I congratulate the Song and Dance Foundation on taking the lead in this process. I very much hope that the Committee on Culture will also know what is happening. I would also like this wish to be included in the verbatim: since these letters have also come to us, we would also like to have the OTSA send us an invitation to have a representative from us as a free listener. So we would be aware of how these processes are developing. Secondly, it is certainly very remarkable that the salaries of cultural workers are on the rise. The only bad thing is that really choir leaders aren't in any of the Department of Culture sub-offices and they don't get paid that way. You mentioned qualification requirements and professional standards and professional qualifications. It's like an egg and a chicken question. There's no point in asking the conductors for it now. It is quite a job to obtain this professional qualification, but there is nowhere to go with this qualification to charge for it. That's my question. It is right that educational topics are separate and cooperation with the municipality is good for large choirs. Can I use an analog that was once applied to coaches? The Ministry of Culture, together with the Coaches Association, picked up and systematized the salaries of the coaches. And the taxes came back. My question: could this problem be solved analogously? There's experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U30	Yeah, luckily, we already have models that can be analyzed. But just in line with the reply: some choir leaders are also working in the national institutions, but of course there is a small part of them that is disappearing. We're talking about a 930 choir and orchestra leader. Of course, there could be an analogous system for coaching, but this requires that we have a database first. In the case of trainers, we are dealing with a very comprehensive database from which we see each hour what kind of child the coach is with. It should also not be forgotten that already at that time there were probably nearly 4,000 coaches who had completed their professional qualification despite the fact that this system did not exist. Now the higher category, i.e. the 5th category, has grown a lot. Category 3 youth trainers. Of course, this is one possible path that should be considered, but once again: it requires that we have comparable data. This is, in my opinion, the fastest job we should be able to do in order to move forward in an argument. This, in turn, also requires that we negotiate the system with all parties involved. If the Minister of Culture puts the scheme on the table, the choir leaders themselves, as well as local governments, the Ministry of Education and Research, must agree to it first. This means cooperation between very many parties. But I am optimistic and I hope that we will take as much steps as possible to get the basic data on which we can already specifically discuss what is the best solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U31	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I'm still sticking to the same subject: the reward of choir and orchestra leaders. I mean, right now, we learned that there is actually no database on which this problem could be dealt with and moved forward. Do you have any information about how much and how local governments currently reward choir leaders, orchestra directors and dance directors?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U33	No, it's not. Because these forms, unfortunately, of how choir leaders are rewarded, are very, very different. As I said, many people who guide our choir either by dealing with children during the day or by working with adult choirs during the evening do so in many places and at the head of very many choirs, sometimes alongside their main work. These are often school music teachers, including music school teachers, who, in addition to this work, supervise the choir. Some people are in some other business at all, and at night they go to the folk dance circle to supervise. That is why I am saying that proper data is needed to provide a solution. What do I mean? What is the average hourly rate now, and how many hours are paid? Where do these fees come from? So one big step is needed before we can offer any model. We can't even imagine what orders of magnitude we're talking about today. And we can't imagine what the choir leaders' income really is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U34	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U35	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! It is a little strange that it has not been possible to ask for this data so far in this age of information technology. What's that behind? Has the idea of collecting them only now come about in the wake of the last memos? Here's the second question. For one problem or another, every minister responsible for some area says that the local government must now deal with it. They will be given additional responsibilities at all times, assuming that the administrative reform will result in greater and more capacity for municipalities. Isn't that the wrong assumption again? I am thinking of the principles of municipal funding and the flexibility of tasks. The reform of the state in the broader sense has not been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U36	Thanks, that's the right question! But I have never said that the local government has to deal with this alone. I have said that it will not be possible to carry out the whole process successfully if the local authorities do not come with it. Of course, I am not going to run away from this issue in any way; I consider this to be a very important topic. I can't tell you why the data hasn't been collected so far. In fact, the problem was raised in about 2004 or when it was, when the choir leaders first drew attention to their concerns in a similar letter. I really don't know how to answer that. But instead of looking for who did not start the system at the time, I think today we need to think about how to get this data together as easily and as quickly as possible in order to move forward. Local authorities have been the real foundations of the entire choral song and folk dance movement at grassroots level all the time. Even the Local Government Organisation Act says that cultural organisation is not only a matter of central government, but also a matter of local government. There is a country that we are promoting here together. And when we come to the Preamble of the Constitution, it applies to the whole country, not just the central government. But, of course, it cannot be said that the local authority must take on this problem alone and resolve it. At the same time, if you want to share responsibilities, you could say that the entire Song Festival is guaranteed by the state through the Estonian Song and Dance Festival Foundation. This side is done. We should, above all, be concerned that all the parties should take place. But, of course, you can't be so short-sighted and say that the rest is none of our business, that these are two different things. Well, it's not, it's organically so bonded that there's no way to separate them. Of course, all parties must work and work together to find a sustainable model in order to take down the fear that sometime in the long run we may begin to see a reverse. At present, the party movement has grown in terms of participation, the parties have become more and more active, but if we actually see that all of this can turn the other way in the medium term, then it is time to act.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U37	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister of Culture, for your answers. You have pointed out several times that it is necessary to start a proper mapping of this whole problem, taking into account the actual hours and remuneration of the actual work of choir leaders, orchestra leaders and dance leaders. In my opinion, the Union of Estonian Choir Leaders has done quite a lot of work and tried to give an overview of how remuneration is currently being done. Several bottlenecks have also been identified. What is missing in their review and in all the report that we know has been presented to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U39	I have to be perfectly honest with you that I have not received such a report. I don't know why. However, there is no such overview, which can be compared to the salaries of people who are paid through the Ministry of Culture's budget, for example, and compared to the coach's remuneration scheme. I've never even heard of anyone coming close to anything. But if it exists, of course, things are different. However, I strongly doubt that. I don't know what form it's in.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U40	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question, as your last answer continues. My colleague Laine Randjärv gave an example of coach remuneration and added to the background that there is actually a register of the Song and Dance Foundation, which lists 100% of all choirs, choirs, brass orchestras, dancers and instructors. And that's with real personal data. Here's the question. You're saying you're not quite sure there's such a thing. But wouldn't that in itself be a very good basis for doing all this analysis in order to introduce a system similar to that of coach remuneration?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U42	Of course, but we should also learn about the burden and pay of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U43	Thank you, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U44	Mr President! Honourable Minister of Culture! Good people's representatives! The tradition of the Estonian Song and Dance Party is something that has passed on to us from very old times and which we rightly call one of the bearers of our identity. I dare say that this is also one of the core values of the nation, which is recognised, recognised and appreciated by very different generations. That is why the main motive for this inquiry is nothing more than a desire to emphasise the existence of its value and the need to be able to defend that value. And to protect in the sense that we look forward, tens of years forward. I very much agree with the Minister for Culture that the state does not have to take on the remuneration of all the directors of choir, dance and orchestra. The continuation of the tradition of the Song Festival in order to be the bearer of the identity of Estonians must start from the grassroots level, and it must certainly express its own will. However, the state can be the one who sets the limit conditions, creates the norms and the system by which the tradition of singing and dance can continue in the current high quality. And here would help with very simple activities, some of which were already mentioned by the Minister of Culture, but which I am happy to go over one more time. First, explaining and working with local authorities. It is local authorities that are currently helping adult choirs and orchestras in particular. Second, the school system. The choir song should be honored in the school system and the choir leader should be rewarded in the same way as other teachers. Because the choir leader doesn't just teach you how to sing. He teaches to sing together, he teaches others to consider, listen, and see. In my opinion, the choir director, as well as the orchestra director and dance director, is shaping their influence and skills by taking advantage of their values. Thirdly, recognition of the movement of song and dance as a process. We can't just take it as one party where people come together. It is a continuous work and activity that requires, like any other work and activity, care, effort and money. Fourthly, the recognition of the tradition of song and dance and the movement of song and dance as one of the most consolidated, binding and educational values in society. I very much hope that the Ministry of Culture, as it has done in previous years, will assume responsibility for preserving its value and explaining its meaning. Society needs values and we have one good established tradition that can also convey important values to future generations. And fifthly, the choir, orchestra and dance leaders, just the leaders! To see a better Estonia, through its teaching, as a person who shapes their work, who helps to make our young people, as well as old people, happier. And people who can sing together, dance together, play together in the orchestra, can move our economy forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U45	Laine Randjärv, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U46	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, First of all, I must say that I really welcome the change in rhetoric or the emotion that has come about in the process of addressing the alliance of choir leaders. When it was said a year or a half ago, the attitudes were different, now it seems that there is a desire for cooperation and that solutions are really being sought. There's really no problem today that there are no singers coming to the singing party. I'm talking about singing parties as a choir leader right now, because I'm more competent in this field, but I'm also thinking about dance directors, dancers, brass players and brass orchestra conductors in parallel. I'm just saying that as an explanation, no one would feel rejected. The troubles are exactly the same for everyone. There is no shortage of singers and other performers. He's gonna apply twice as many people as he can on the stage. There are 24,000 singers and musicians on stage. 50,000 - 53000 people have been accommodated in good times. As long as there's plenty of teachers, there'll be plenty of visitors. Every year, when there is a new general song festival and dance party, project choirs and dance groups emerge. It is more difficult to create a dance group as a project, but there are still some brave people who will only come together by then, find themselves a teacher and pay him from their own pockets. The problem is, however, that a very large number of choirs and cream collect their own money and pay rent from their own pockets. The conductor is paid according to his abilities. And it's all happening so that it's not included in statistics, it's not paying taxes, and the choir director can't be sure that the specialty he's studying brings him bread on the table. The problem is, we're actually losing the invite of the choir leader. It has been correctly said here that choir leaders have taken little notice of themselves and applied for certain categories. It's just a crazy job. I've personally been through this. Many requirements are needed to get even the lowest category. It is one thing to fill out bureaucratic papers, but there must still be concerts, performances, participation in projects, trainings. You're wasting more money on all these claims than you're finally getting more money at this point. The hourly rate corresponding to the qualification is awfully low. And there's really no one to go to, no matter how low or high your qualifications are. In the 1980s, when I started studying choir management, the competition was so big that two people were there. Now, in a good case, Eller and Otsa are about one or two people taking the lead in the choir. Twelve places have been one courseful of people, perhaps eight or ten in later times. It actually means that no one goes to the music academy to study choir management. If you go to the music pedagogy specialty and you get the skills of a choir manager, but you get the job of a choir leader if you get fewer and fewer people like that. And they're really talking about aging company. I'm about to be 54 years old, and they complain that most music teachers are 50+ years old. Let's just say there's still a lot of life left, and I can make three choirs, physically I won't collapse. Fifty-year-olds can still make cream, thank God. But the problem is, we don't have any more offspring. There are lonely ones who shine. When we watched a school youth song and dance, there were a lot of new young conductors standing on the remote and leading. Yeah, but that's pretty much it. There won't be any new ones. And when you say somewhere that I'm a choir leader, they say, "So what? ' There are very few places for a professional choir leader: choirmaker in Vanemuine Theatre, choirmaker in Estonia, conductor in RAM, choirmakers in Estonia. There are also so-called music studios in national broadcasting, and practically that's it. The rest are self-employment choirs. Let's just say it works on the so-called one-breathing, and that's our thing right now. It was already mentioned here that we were asking whether there was still a tradition of singing and dancing in 2034. In fact, it is absolutely high time to think about it. By this time, the current 50-year-olds, right, are already 70+. There's no more strength, and it's really crazy if there's no new people on it. If there are no new 50-year-olds by then, the songs and dances will just fade away. We can only look at them on the UNESCO list, they're not real. I feel a lot of heartache about this thing. This is not a slogan and it is not a desire to beat up the Minister of Culture a bit. Quite rightly, I too have been asked: "What did you do, Laine, when you were Minister of Culture? ' I did a lot of things, even the same register that has been mentioned here, even with the implementation of the same system of inter-song scholarships, so that the budget for singing and dances would not be reduced even during the recession. These fights had to all be fought down, because there were many questions about why you wouldn't take the money out of there during the song festival break, if you really had so much money. These fights have been fought all along, but how now? For example, for the next folk dance, all groups must come with authentic folk clothes. Where's the money coming from? Is this requirement thought out? Will cultural capital support and how will these things ever be? The wind pills are getting old. When I was mayor of Tartu, a three-year wind musical instrument purchase program was made to buy new brass pills for schools. What do young people learn to play with when they don't have instruments? So actually, this is one big complex of questions. Really, it may seem like a waste of money, but it also brings in something. It brings in money because there's not so much crime prevention to deal with. You don't have to talk so much about drugs and juvenile iPad disease, and I don't know what else. Young people still have something to do. So, indeed, I call for: the Song and Dance Foundation, really, take this matter very seriously! Get all the people who are interested, and we'll blow it! Let's blow it like we made a curl in 1988 when Tormis wrote this story in support of the fight against phosphorite! Hit the curl, and things get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U47	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to negotiate. The manager realized that the word "beating" in the last negotiator's speech was meant in a transcendent sense. The Minister of Culture would like to speak. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U48	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy members of the Riigikogu and participants in the debate! However, I note that Mr Randjärv said 'beats', not 'beats', so...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U49	No, it was an earlier text...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U50	I'm sure you can check it from the verbatim. I would like to thank you for this question and for the very constructive debate that has been here today on this subject. I hope that we will take big steps forward from here, and perhaps we will be able to do so on the basis of arguments. There's two different ways to hit the sledge. This can be done emotionally, and then it can affect society as a message that these cultural people are again squealing and waving their hands and emotional. And this can also be done on the basis of arguments, which is, I think, a significantly more constructive and also more result-making version. I call on everyone to do their best first of all to get as good a comparison as possible on what we are talking about. And then we try to figure out what the possible solutions are. Let us not just rely on emotions. Laine Randjärv indicated that a year or a half ago this problem was not taken seriously. I'm sorry, I don't remember that exact expression, but somehow it was. For my part, I would like to confirm that the Ministry of Culture and I, as Minister of Culture, have taken everything that concerns the tradition of singing and dancing extremely seriously. Point 1. When we are talking about people working in the cultural field, my mission has been three years to point out that these people are most directly dependent on the achievement of the objective enshrined in the Constitution: it is up to them whether our culture has been preserved. This, in turn, depends on whether these people are paid a decent reward for their work and whether their work is recognised or treated in such a way that they are going to have a good time at night. It is very easy to say about the choir leader or dance director: comes in the evening, sings or humps with friends, and what's there, gets a little reward for it. We need to understand that this work requires full commitment, it requires professional skills and, in addition to professional skills, very good teaching abilities, especially when we talk about working with children. So the work of these people must be taken at least as seriously as the work of all other teachers. I believe that this debate on how much the salary of a person working in the cultural field should be has brought us a step closer to understanding the importance of this work. But in addition, of course, we must ensure that these parties can take place. At this point, I dare confirm that the Ministry of Culture has not attempted to circumvent its responsibility in any way, has not said that the Tallinn Song Festival Square is a matter for the city of Tallinn because it belongs to them. On the contrary, together with the city of Tallinn, we finally carried out an expert analysis on our singing arc, which is known to have been built as many decades ago, and for which there was not even an engineering-technical analysis whether it would survive. Now this analysis has been carried out and evaluated. We can safely say that at least a quarter of a century more can be sung under this arch. This summer, the wooden flute under the lyrics will be replaced, which has also been at the mercy of the weather since 1960. We take full responsibility for such things. And when we're talking about where the dance is going, it's not a NGO thing, Kalev's sports club. That's just as much a national thing, and we're investing in it to get the stadium fixed. I assure you, with full responsibility, that I will personally contribute to moving forward with the remuneration of the choir, orchestra and dance directors. I would just like to remind you that there are other parties here who must definitely be involved in this process. Thank you. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U51	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U52	Next is an inquiry by Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsepp, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm, Külliki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams, Raivo Aeg, Henn Põlluaas, Martin Helme, Arno Sild and Maire Aunaste. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U53	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 2 April this year, on behalf of 13 members of the Riigikogu, we submitted to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson an inquiry into ferry traffic between the mainland and Hiiumaa, because we cannot be satisfied that ferry traffic between Hiiumaa and the mainland has been, to put it mildly, questionable. The continuous and smooth ferry connection is a self-evident obligation of the Estonian state and for Hiiumaa the connection is a vital service to the mainland. This is not just a matter of random crossings or leisure activities, but a service of vital importance. This year, however, ferry connections to Hiiumaa have been suspended on several occasions, and it can even be said that there has been a serious disruption and a group of giants have also issued a petition to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. It can be said that the faults associated with ferry connections are no longer random. According to Aivar Viidik, Chairman of the Volvavolikogu, this is already a systemic disorder. The risk of water level on the shipping route connecting Hiiumaa to the mainland has actually been known for a long time, and what happened in March-April this year did not come as a surprise to anyone. Unfortunately, I must say that these issues have been ignored. The last time the Rye channel was deepened was in October 2014. In October 2016, due to the low water level, serious problems with the ferry connection again arose and the trawling of the canal cleared the stones and the surface of the ground. No one will be surprised that about two times a year, water levels fall so low that serious problems arise when driving to Hiiumaa. Unfortunately, however, the deepening work is planned only in August 2018. We know that you met with the local government leaders in Hiiumaa, as concerned citizens. We would like to hear the answers from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure to the seven questions that we have asked and to find out whether decisions have now been taken. When can we say that there are no more problems with Rye's canal depth and that ferries can move even if the water level is lower than expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U54	Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U55	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your very balanced questioning on such an emotionally charged subject. I guess there's a trail of Andres Ammas. For the sake of clarity, I will read the question first and then the answer. First of all, the question. Why didn't the money for the Rye Canal's deepening in the state budget for 2017 and the preparation needed to deepen last year, such as applying for a special water permit for a longer period? National budget planning is a long-term process that starts in the spring of the year preceding the financial year. Therefore, the budgetary planning procedure for 2017 started already in spring 2016. The Government of the Republic submitted the draft state budget to the Riigikogu on 28 September 2016 and it did not provide the means to deepen the Rye Reef channel. Even after the trawling of the Rye Peace channel in October 2016, this topic did not arise in the state budget process. Even after the change of government, when the budget had reached the point that only political groups were able to table amendments, none of the political groups represented in the Riigikogu presented such a proposal. The ordering of the Rye Canal dredging work was prepared in 2017, on my orders, the necessary funds for the dredging work were planned in the 2018 budget. Today I can assure you that the additional resources, so that dredging can be carried out regularly after a certain period, are now planned in the budget strategy. The money is also available for 2020 and 2022. Preparations for applying for a special water application were already started by the Maritime Administration in November last year. The request for a specific water application was submitted on 8 December 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. But it is stipulated that dredging and dumping may be carried out this year during the period from 1 August to mid-October. Time limits are due to the requirements of the Ministry of the Environment. The second question: 'The sinking of the channel has been planned since August this year. Would it have been possible to deepen the Rye Canal as early as summer-Autumn 2017? ' The problem of the Rye Reef channel was discussed at the meetings of experts from the Ministry and the Maritime Administration, which concluded that trawling did not produce the desired result and that dredging work was needed. The State Budget for 2017 did not provide funds for dredging work, therefore it was not possible to do so in 2017. The Maritime Administration regularly monitored each week and observed that a permanent wall formed in November in the Rye Reef channel. After that, a water permit was also applied for, because eviction requires authorisation. The third question: 'Because the situation with the depth of the Rye Canal is critical (the water level has fallen by 4,8 m) and this could cause interference with the traffic, the main captain of the ports of AS Saarte Lines, Andrus Maide, pointed out on 3 November 2017. A similar communication to all partners was sent by Piret Sedrik, the county governor of Hiiumaa. As a result, what measures did the Ministry plan to prevent problems in the ferry traffic in Hiiumaa? " Indeed, on November 3, Piret Sedrik, the Acting Land Elder of Hiiumaa, sent a letter to his partners. I quote from the passage in his letter: "To the center of the canal again this wall has been formed again 4,8 metres [4,8 m]. Given that somewhere else, there are already only 5,2 meters by the side of the wall, it is unlikely that the equivalent of the plunder that was done last year will be more than 5,2 meters to the full extent. A solution would be needed to get it back to 5,4 meters, because when ships stand, it is too late to think about it. " After this letter, indeed, preparations were started to enable the necessary dredging work to be carried out in the Rye Canal, i.e. the eviction of the soil, to be carried out in 2018. To this end, the Maritime Administration started preparing an application for a specific water permit. In parallel, action was taken to ensure that alternative measures were in place to maintain the link between islands and the mainland in extreme situations, i.e. those with low sea levels. For example, with a critically low water level, the carrier TS Ships can choose the safe speed and, if necessary, avoid passing through the channel fully loaded, i.e. continue journeys but no longer fully loaded. Since the transport of essential goods and passengers must be ensured during this period, the carrier can cooperate with other authorities. This was also the case with the emergency route, i.e. the connection from Heltermaa, not to Rohuküla, but to Virtsu. Question 4: 'You have argued in social media that the current concerns of the giants are caused by misdecisions a few years ago. Which decisions do you have in mind in particular? ' I had in mind the 2016 decision to replace the deepening, or eviction, with a cheaper solution, i.e. the trawling of sediments. I don't think there's any point in commenting on that. Question 5: 'The Municipality Council of Hiiumaa wishes to participate in its visit 22.03.2018 in the development of a specific action plan to ensure the smooth operation of ferry traffic on the Rohuküla-Heltermaa route. According to the Council, the action plan must include the elements relating to the deepening of the Rye Canal, the regularity of the deepening and the construction of additional shore ramps, the budget for these activities, the time of implementation and those responsible. When will such an action plan be completed? How will the Ministry behave if no suitable offers are received for Rye canal maintenance and dredging? " On April 20, I discussed this issue with representatives of the Mayor and Chairman of the Council of the Municipality of Hiiumaa, the Chairman of the Association of Entrepreneurs in Hiiumaa, and the Maritime Administration and Ministry. The meeting discussed what further steps should be taken to ensure a stable ferry connection between the mainland and Hiiumaa. More detailed details of the solutions will be agreed at further workplaces. What is important is that Rye's canal dredging is planned in the budget and that the work takes place between 1 August and 15 October. In doing so, however, we also take into account the wishes of the municipality of Hiiumaa in relation to the exact time of the works, so that regular ferry traffic is not interrupted by that time. In addition, money is also earmarked for the country's budget strategy for 2020 and 2022. Of course, we will examine whether it is possible to do something in the course of the work so that the sediments are no longer regularly transferred to the canal and should not be further deepened. The Maritime Administration has asked the Estonian Geological Service to carry out studies on this subject. The Geological Service has assured me today that they have already done research at sea, looked at the nature of the sediments and examined not only the top sediments, but went to a depth of 30 metres in Rye Peace. However, the ordering of works related to the deepening process must be carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. This summer, we don't go that far, we lift out the influxed sediments. Public authorities, such as the Maritime Administration, must take into account the conditions and thresholds laid down in the Public Procurement Act, as well as the period of public tender announcement. The director of the Maritime Administration today assured me that the call would be announced in May. The new study of the geology service will then be included in the procurement. The Maritime Administration has mapped dredging workers in the immediate area and the risk of no suitable offer is estimated by the Agency to be virtually non-existent. However, should open procurement fail for any reason, other options compatible with the law on public procurement must be considered in order to ensure that all the necessary work is done. Question 6: "Flights in ferry traffic have caused material damage to the inhabitants and businesses of Hiiumaa. How will the damage suffered be assessed and how do you intend to compensate for it? ' The uninterrupted operation of ferry traffic between mainland and Hiiumaa is an important public interest. In order to realise the fundamental rights of island residents and entrepreneurs, the provision of transport connections between the mainland and Hiiumaa is of particular importance to the state. The transport link between the mainland and Hiiumaa is ensured by ships on the Rohuküla route and by plane on the Tallinn route. The ferry traffic between the two major islands, Hiiumaa and Saaremaa also takes place on the Sõru-Triigi route. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure the operation of the transport link also in the event of adverse weather conditions. Due to the exceptionally low water level, ferry traffic was last disrupted before this February in autumn 2016, when the strong and long-term north-east and east winds had reduced the sea level to the extent that Rye's canal depth and waterway were not safe to provide ferry connections. Therefore, only alternative options for the maintenance of the service had to be used. Learning from it, the TS Ships, which now provides the service, were ready to immediately enforce a new line that connected Heltermaa to Virtsu. We also ordered extra trips by airplanes and Sõru was on the ferry line. In order to meet the needs of local residents, their guests and entrepreneurs, TS Ships and the service provider kept in contact with Hiiu Municipality and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration at all times in order to be able to continue the regular transport between the mainland and Hiiumaa. I think it is also very important that during the great holidays, during Easter, no one remained in Heltermaa and every single machine was brought to the mainland. Question 7: "Who is responsible for the lack of public care in the Rye Canal for the damage and inconvenience caused to the inhabitants and entrepreneurs of Hiiumaa? What is the expression of this responsibility? ' I must agree that there have been problems with ensuring the passage of Rye's channel over the years and that the failure to deepen the channel in 2016 was not right. However, I can confirm that ensuring the transport of giants and entrepreneurs and tourists in Hiiumaa is a priority for me as a minister, but also for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Public Road Administration, and for the Maritime Administration, which manages safe navigation on public waterways. To ensure a stable connection, this year the Maritime Administration is organising the Rye Canal dredging work. The aim is to restore the depth of the Rye Peace Channel to 5.2 metres according to the new existing European altitude system, Amsterdam Zero. Now, if you think that this 5,2 meters is somehow low, I would point out that at the turn of the year we switched the measuring system and 5.2 meters according to Amsterdam's zero is still equal to the zero of the Crown City in use last year, or 5,4 meters. The giants must be given long-term security and therefore the country plans to carry out the dredging work in the Rye Peace channel on a regular basis in the future. In parallel, we are also looking for scientific ways to make some "additional" collection channels so that it does not get back to the Rye Peace Channel so quickly and will not interfere with ferry traffic in the future. By doing so, I have completed seven written questions and will answer, as best I can, the questions of the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U56	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, To confirm this last expression of hope, I have two questions relating to each other. First of all, were the 2016 water conditions really extraordinary, as the Minister then told us at the time? You yourself have strongly criticised the estimates at the time. Looking to the future, can we confirm that any deepening work will still be carried out in this year, I assume, will ensure that shipping is not disrupted even in exceptional water conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U58	In 2016, water levels were indeed exceptionally low, but they have been in the past. For example, I recommend everyone to read a very interesting article in the 2010 issue of Estonian Nature, which discusses why the ships in Hiiumaa still fall to the bottom by the stomach. And it was already in 2010. They were different ships, but then the solution was the existence of a very low-water reserve ship. So the same giant question about the shore ramp, is it not concerned that, in the event of exceptionally low water levels, large ships can be replaced temporarily by small ships?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U59	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! You mentioned here that in 2017 there were no budgetary resources for the deepening work. In my understanding, and in the understanding of many others, this really was an emergency. After all, for emergencies, the government has a reserve fund. Haven't you ever considered that? You also mentioned that work cannot begin until August and that there are environmental requirements. What environmental requirements could these be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U61	A special water permit must be applied for from the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment will then be guided by the restrictions in this area. I am not a fish scientist, but I understand that these restrictions, which do not allow the exodus of the soil until 1 August, involve the spawning of fish and that this amount of soil work could have a negative impact on fish stocks in the future. Now the question is, if there is an emergency, can the money be used from the reserve. Indeed it can. However, in November last year, when regular monitoring of the Maritime Administration revealed that a wall of lasting nature had emerged, there was no emergency situation as there was a normal state of water. Indeed, it is not possible to confirm whether a low water level is to be observed every winter. So, according to the specialists of the Maritime Administration and the Department of Maritime Affairs and Aviation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, only trawling, this quick solution, would not have solved the problem by itself. This was also referred to in his letter by the acting governor of the land of Hiiumaa. In order to remove the surface, it was necessary to make longer preparations, in particular to obtain a special water permit, but also to organise a public procurement to find a contractor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U62	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have one question and I ask you either to clarify it or to confirm it or not. Was it absolutely necessary to stop shipping? One information that has also appeared in the press is that the ship's sonars were tuned too sensitively or fine-tuning, and in fact they were able to move. Please specify this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U64	In retrospect, we know that when the ice left the Rye Reef channel, the channel was deeper than the last mark left in December. But since shipping, as well as ferry traffic, is very dangerous in the event of a potential accident, the tour operator must comply with the highest safety standards. While the last measurement by the Maritime Administration showed the depth of this channel as such, TS Ships were based only on the water level measurements and not on the readings of their own instruments on board. They had to follow safety rules. Similarly, we also have aviation and other complex transport areas. Now we know the channel was deeper than it was in December, but it's hindsight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U65	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you, Kadri Simson! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I shall close the discussion on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U66	The following question is submitted by Urve Tiidus, Lauri Luik, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Kalle Laanet, Urmas Kruuse, Toomas Kivimägi, Madis Milling, Heidy Purga, Yoko Alender and Remo Holsmer. On behalf of the heirs, Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister Kadri Simson! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Our group's inquiry four weeks ago, as well as the question of 2 April, also concerns the ferry connection between Hiiumaa and the continent. The culmination of the events remained during the last months of winter and the end of March, and in the meantime, a lot of water has flowed into the sea and the topic for this spring seems to have fallen behind the agenda. However, an interesting point about the water state of the Rye Canal was added to this on 11 April, which was also referred to by a fellow Member on his question. The public was then told that the problems with the ferry connection between the mainland and Hiiumaa had been merely 'a lot of noise from nothing' and the channel had been pierced all along, i.e. there has been plenty of water. Shakespeare has a comedy of the same name, "Many noises from nothing," and it's been smiling theater friends for four centuries. However, on the basis of the answers previously expressed by the Minister in this Chamber today, I would like to hope, and I also believe that the problems associated with Rye's channel will not compete with the brilliant writer in terms of duration and solutions will arrive much, much faster. In our group's inquiry, we referred to a written question by Mr Kalle Laanet, who was sent to Minister Kadri Samson in May 2017 on the need to deepen the Rye Canal. Several of the concerns raised in this letter were quite clear answers from the Ministry, which, taken together in brief, said that there was a solution to any possible problem without further deepening. One quote I'm going to read out, that's from that answer. 'Today [the story is May 2017] the Rohuküla-Heltermaa ferry line is driven by two new ferries, whose propulsion engines are located on the centre axis of the ship. According to the assessment of the Maritime Administration, based on the experience of 2015 it can be assumed that new ferry ships arriving on the route will remove soft sediments from the canal and will almost recover after the dredging work carried out in 2014. ' Unfortunately, either the new ferry did not meet their expectations, something was in the game, or what was in it, so the experts might be able to settle it, but the Minister's previous answers already revealed a lot of facts. I know the minister also met the giants, and I'm sure those emotions were unloaded on the island. Perhaps the damages will also be compensated. It is precisely in the hope that this whole situation will not happen again and that the connection between Hiiumaa and the continent will always work smoothly in the future that we asked the Minister a number of questions. Some of them may repeat the question raised by the Free Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U68	Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U69	Dear summer giant Eiki Nestor! Welcome, islander Enn Frontland and all the inquisitors too! For the sake of clarity, I will read out the question and give a quick answer. True, I admit, as Urve Tiidus said, that a number of questions are repeated in comparison with the previous question. The first question: "Do you still stick to your self-confident statement from May 2017 that there is no need to deepen the Rye Canal in that year and that ships clean it themselves? Who is specifically responsible for the non-relevance of this claim made to the Riigikogu and for the resulting consequences? ' I would point out that this was a written question from Kalle Laanet, a member of the Riigikogu. The answer was specifically this: During the 2017 navigation period, the Maritime Administration continuously monitors the depth data of the Rye Reef channel and at the end of the summer the situation and the need for deepening will be further assessed. Thus, the Maritime Administration did not rely on ships themselves to keep the Rye Canal deep enough. During the navigation period of 2017, the Maritime Administration did survey work in Rye Canal to monitor depth data every week. The last survey was published in navigation information on 1 December 2017 and then marked the depth of the channel at 4.7 metres. Again, I would point out that 4.7 meters was from the former Baltic altitude system, which we know as the zero of the Crown City. When the ice was formed, no more measurements could be made. The Maritime Administration began its survey on April 12 this year, and the length of Rye's canal was measured to a depth of 5,1 metres. According to experts from the Maritime Administration, however, the activity of ferries and the intensive movement of water in the canal under the ice cover caused by propulsion vessels could be the reason for the increase in the depth of the canal. The second question: '2016, in cooperation with Hiiu entrepreneurs and the county government, Kristen Michal, then Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, found resources in 24 hours to mitigate the anomalously low water level situation. Depth work in October 2016 reached a depth of 5,25 to 5,3 metres. What prevented you from taking similar steps in the summer of 2017 knowing in May 2017 that autumn-Winter could be a problem? ' For the sake of the Steinogram, one of the reasons for the problems was the 2016 decision when, instead of dredging, sediment trawling was carried out. Therefore, the claim that dredging operations were carried out in 2016 is not true. During the trawling, the soil was levelled rather than lifted out of the ground, and the last deepening took place in 2014. Once again, I would point out that the depth achieved after trawling, 5,2 meters by the zero of the Crown City, is 5 meters, or the current depth, according to Amsterdam's zero. The problem of the Rye Reef Canal was discussed in 2017 at the workshops of experts from the Ministry and the Maritime Administration, which concluded that trawling did not produce the desired result and that dredging work was needed. The State Budget for 2017 did not have funds planned for the deepening work, so it was not possible to do so in 2017. Also, in 2017, the Maritime Administration did not have the necessary specific water permit, which would not have allowed for deepening work in summer-Autumn 2017. In order to enable Rye canal dredging to be carried out in 2018, preparations were started under my orders in 2017. The Hiiu community and business representatives are also involved in the planning of the work, precisely so that the deepening work does not hinder normal ferry traffic. Question number three: 'You say publicly that your actions are hindered by ice. However, already in May 2017 you had a known problem. That's what your own answer says. Summer 2017 was ice-free. In autumn, both Hiiu entrepreneurs and municipalities wrote about the problem. Why didn't you take steps to solve the problem in 2017 when the ice was about six months away? " The reasons why it was not possible to deepen the Rye Canal in the summer of 2017, I already spoke in response to the previous question. The information provided in response to an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu in May 2017 was based on experience with the ships of the previous carrier. During the 2017 navigation period, the Maritime Administration monitored the depth data of the Rye Reef channel in a consistent manner, and when it became apparent that the channel needed to be deepened, it was dealt with. The fourth question: 'Because the situation with the depth of the Rye Canal is critical and the water level has fallen 4.8 m, and this could cause interference with the traffic, the main captain of the ports of AS Saarte Lines, Andrus Maide, also drew attention in the first days of November 2017. An announcement to all partners was also sent by Piret Sedrik, the county governor of Hiiumaa. Why didn't you or your subordinate authorities start looking for solutions immediately? In the past, we know that they can be found within 24 hours of the Minister's will, was there an obstacle to lack of desire or indifference? " Indeed, on November 3, Piret Sedrik, the Acting Land Elder of Hiiumaa, sent a letter to his partners. I quote the passage from the letter: "To the center of the canal, this wall has again been formed 4,8 metres, and given that there is already only 5,2 metres in depth in other parts of the wall, it is unlikely that, with the similar plunder that was done last year, it will be more than 5,2 metres in total. A solution would be needed to get it back to 5,4 meters, because when ships stand, it is too late to think about it. ' In order to enable Rye canal dredging to be carried out in 2018, preparations were started in 2017 under my orders. I would like to draw the attention of the questioners to the fact that the Maritime Administration started preparing an application for a specific water permit in November and the application was submitted on 8 December 2017. The specific water permit was issued to the Maritime Administration on 14 March 2018 and allows dredging and dumping work to be carried out this year from the beginning of August to half October. In the interests of long-term deepening, the Maritime Administration shall cooperate with the Geological Service to carry out geophysical studies necessary for the procurement of maintenance and dredging works. Following the transfer of the results of the studies, the Maritime Administration can announce the necessary procurement in May. The goal is to restore Rye's canal to its depth, then to its new altitude system, Amsterdam's zero to 5,2 meters. And the necessary funds are planned for this year's budget. Once again, the additional instruments for regular deepening work are available in the country's budgetary strategy every two years, i.e. by 2020 and 2022. Question 5: 'Why did you choose to answer the entrepreneurs and local governments of Hiiumaa only when the problem was in the national media and resentment reached the collection of public signatures and the request of the giants that you resign because of failure? In November 2017, copies of the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications of Hiiumaa Vallavoli Riigikogu were also addressed to the Road Administration and TS Ships, which asked Hiiumaa to include the Municipality of Hiiumaa as one of the contracting partners in the organisation of air and ferry traffic. There was no mention of deepening. It is true that the municipality of Hiiumaa did not receive a written reply from the Ministry, just as it did not receive a reply from the Riigikogu, but the wish of the municipality of Hiiumaa has been taken into account by the Ministry and the Road Administration. The wish of the municipality, in the past, was that the government of Hiiumaa wanted representatives to be involved in the management of both air and ferry traffic. For example, ferry schedules drawn up in accordance with the terms of the public service contract and the annual state budget are coordinated with the municipality and regular working meetings are known to be held with the carrier. The Ministry and the Maateemet also have very good cooperation with the representative of the municipality in the preparatory expert committee for the new air service. Cooperation between Hiiu rural municipality and state institutions was also discussed at my meeting on 20 April with the Mayor of the Municipality of Hiiumaa, the Chairman of the Council and the Chairman of the Association of Entrepreneurs in Hiiumaa. Question 6: 'You have made promises of solutions only in August 2018. Are you able to deal with the problem in the past? What are the specific activities that ensure smooth crossings? " On April 12, the Maritime Administration measured Rye Canal and marked its depth at 5,1 metres, sufficient for regular ferry trips. In the event that the measurements had shown that the depth of the duct was not sufficient, the Maritime Administration was prepared to arrange for the ordering of the service, smoothing of the sediment trays by trawling and removing the stones from the duct. Question 7: 'You have heard that you have advised the giants to make more use of the possibilities of the plane. How do you imagine Hiiumaa's entrepreneurs would fit their cargo in a small plane instead of existing trucks and ferries? Or what is your recommendation based on? Does the Estonian Government plan to start flying large transport planes between Hiiumaa? ' The air link between the mainland and Hiiumaa is intended primarily for passenger transport. However, as large-scale freight transport can be carried out by passenger ships, public authorities are making joint efforts to ensure smooth and smooth ferry traffic. During the period of extremely low water levels, fixed connections to the mainland were ensured, both for the benefit of passengers and operators, through the alternative route Heltermaa-Virtsu. And as long as the water level was not so low, the reduced cargo could make trips between Heltermaa and Rohuküla. Question 8: When are you going to Hiiumaa? I went to Hiiumaa to meet the parish representatives on April 20th. I assure you, as I have assured them, that guaranteeing the transport of the giants and their visitors and entrepreneurs in Hiiumaa is a priority for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Public Road Administration. I also take the concerns of the giants personally very seriously. I confirmed it this time, and I will confirm and act accordingly on the next few occasions when the issues of the Hiiumaa community are under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U70	The round of questions opens Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, first of all, thank you for your answers. However, I ask how you were satisfied to resolve this crisis situation with the actions of TS Ship Command. How quickly did they react, how operationally they were willing to cooperate, and what suggestions did they make?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U72	I think the most important thing is that the TS Ships proposed a solution which, as a result of the large holidays, did not leave any machine waiting for access to the mainland on the pier of Heltermaa; they were all brought on extra trips. Although it is more acceptable for the giants to have a direct connection between Heltermaa and Rohuküla, the offer of additional trips to Virtsu in such a difficult situation was certainly operational. I also consider it very important that the carrier meets regularly with the giants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U73	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U74	I also have to say thank you for your thorough answers. Estonia is proud of its islands and rightly so. If the interferences in the connections were ever explained by the words 'a thing beyond the sea', many of the older ones remember very long waitings on the docks, both on the mainland and on the islands, then today's level of over-shipment and people's expectations do not allow for this. Unfortunately, the quality of life and the pace of life do not foresee such patience. What are you willing to pawn as a politician so that the giants and the visitors of Hiiumaa can be sure: connections work one hundred percent, of course, with the exception of some very extreme weather event?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U75	Mrs Urve Tiidus, I agree with you that extreme weather events cannot be prevented by any government. What we have been trying to ensure connections, the absence of which has so far caused problems for the giants. For example, last year's long - term solution was that the giants have a daily connection to Saaremaa. This is especially necessary for farmers who take their produce into the Saaremaa milk combine. Now, in the case of deepening, we have planned that this should be done on a regular basis, because the sediments are entering the Rye Reef channel with currents. In parallel, however, we are trying to find a solution to how the deepening could have a longer impact. The Maritime Administration has told me about the solution for the 'collection channels' coming up next to the existing Rye Reef channel, so that these sediments do not reach the deep channel immediately, but are collected first. So technical solutions are also being sought that would have a longer impact on these works.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U76	Thank you to the Minister for his comments and answers. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. I will conclude the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-30_U77	After hitting the hammer, it is possible to register for the use of a free microphone. That's not what you want. Today's trial is over. I wish everyone a happy Spring Day. I'll see you Wednesday. Closure of the sitting at 5.09 p.m.
