ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U1	Good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 37 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. There are members of the Government of the Republic: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson, and hopefully Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, will also be here. I'll give you one more question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U2	The first questioner is Jürgen Ligi, the first answerer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U3	Thank you, Prime Minister. Estonia's reputation has been stained in relation to Danske. Tell me what you personally have done to get this stain off of it in a situation where many people and institutions are trying to make it unearned! I am thinking here about the reputation of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! Good guests! Good questioner, first of all, thank you very much for raising this question. I agree with you: this money laundering scandal has certainly not benefited Estonia's reputation. And I think that the reputation of Estonia must be preserved by everyone, all Estonian people, including members of the Riigikogu, members of the government, and the official community. This is, I think, our day-to-day work. You're asking me what I've done personally. I've done everything I can to... They say you have to learn. It is best if we learn from the mistakes of others and fail to make mistakes ourselves. I think that today we need to look at what these errors were during the 2007/2015 period, so we can avoid similar mistakes in the future. Are the steps that have been taken to date sufficient to ensure that the likelihood of such money laundering will never be repeated again? I think these are important steps. We have discussed various initiatives in the office that need to be taken, questioned and listened to by the Financial Supervision Authority, the Police and Border Guard Board, who deal with these issues every day. We have also agreed that tomorrow, when the government hearing is over, we will proceed with this money laundering incident. Of course, in addition to the so-called 'working steps', further steps need to be taken, be they at international level, be it at national level, be it at information exchange level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U5	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U6	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! It's good news that you're discussing it. That's the way to do it. In fact, the people who know the subject are quite well aware of what has happened and what can still be done. It's a lesson learned in some ways in the sense that it's finished. And the choices of regulations, what could be changed in regulations, are also more or less described. But my question is still only about reputation. Your deputy here in the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, and a number of people are fighting with those who are trying to do this precisely as a major mistake for the Estonian state, which happened in a commercial bank, and to which Estonia's supervision was specifically discovered only in Estonia and not in Denmark. Tell me, is it also expected that you will help to put an end to the reputation of such an Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U7	Thank you. When I saw the questioners of this Question Time and the content of the questions, I was very much hoping that you would also try to put aside the political dimension at the moment. Either way, I'll do it. You are well aware that you were very closely involved in the field during this period, be it as Minister of Finance, be it also as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority Board. I'm not pointing my finger or looking at you to say you're guilty. I'm certainly not gonna say that. As for what is happening outside Estonia, I will bring my personal experience. Last week I was in Salzburg, Austria, where the European Union summit and the informal European Council were held. There were many other colleagues who came and asked what was happening to Danske and what was being done about it. I think we need to discuss all the lessons from the 2007/2015 period. The Financial Supervision Authority, as far as I know, approached banks with different names on several occasions. It's true. Why it was not properly listened to must be clarified in this international cooperation. I can't tell you how seriously the cabinet discussed it at the time, for example, or whether he was discussing it at all. Now we have discussed this many times and, as I said, we will continue this debate tomorrow. Such money laundering scandals must certainly not be repeated in Estonia. One way or another, they will be reflected in the foreign media and, unfortunately, negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! You must be unfair to my colleague Jürgen Ligi. To a lesser extent, he is certainly not the promoter of this political debate on the case of Danske's money laundering. But I'm amazed at one thing. We have heard very clearly very clear messages from the Financial Supervision Authority and even from Denmark we have heard that Estonia signaled. Of course, the question arises as to why the Danish side did not react. In my opinion, it would also be extremely important for the strategic communication of the state and government to be very intensive in order to clear Estonia's reputation. You are actually responsible to both the coalition and the members of your party. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U10	Thank you. I guess you didn't listen to my answer, or you didn't want to listen to it. I wasn't talking about the debate in general, I was talking about the question of Question Time today. This was primarily due to the second question of the questioner when he referred to Jaanus Karilaid and the Committee on Legal Affairs. I do not think that this is any wrong act if the members of the Riigikogu also want to discuss this issue and believe that such money laundering incidents will not be possible in the future. I said to Jürgen Ligi's question that he was the Minister of Finance for a very long time at the time, but I also said that I certainly did not put my finger or look at him to say that he was responsible. I said, on the contrary, that we must learn from this period, which was done wrong, which was not done enough. But we cannot say that Estonia did nothing. I also stress to you that the Financial Supervision Authority actually paid attention to this issue several times. The fact that we found a solution for non-residents in 2015 is certainly also an important message that, after that, such money laundering cannot happen again. You hinted at your question, and rightly so! I'm responsible for my political responsibility. Of course, I will do everything today to learn from the experiences that have been and to do everything in order to avoid such opportunities in financial institutions operating in Estonia in the future. This requires cooperation at international level, but also within Estonia. Whether that was politically enough or not, I cannot appreciate that at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U12	Now Krista Aru asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have rightly emphasised the importance of research and development and innovation for Estonia in several international and domestic forums. How does emphasis be placed on this importance in next year's state budget? Has the R &amp; D Council, which you are chairing, changed its decision to freeze the financing of R &amp; D and are we moving closer to the target set years ago to finance R &amp; D with an amount of 1% of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U14	Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Krista Aru! I will continue with what I have said many times and what I would like to say to you: thank you! Whenever there's talk of R &amp; D here, I'm personally the first representative to see you with your own lame smile. And when I prepared this briefing, I didn't have to read that second question. When I saw Krista Aru asking, it was known that it definitely had to be linked to research and development. Now what we've changed in the TAN. Before I go to the financial dimension, I say that next year research and development is not just a matter of the Ministry of Education and Research. It is also a sectoral issue of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the matter of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the question of MKM that more and more are being invested in science. We are certainly moving towards this objective and it is a fundamental decision that the project/base funding ratio in 2019 will not be 60:40, but 50:50. In answer to your question about funding, I'm sure I'll take TAN out of shock. You specifically said that the TAN decided that we would not bring this percentage higher. No, TAN hasn't made that decision. The decision of TAN, the decision of the members of TAN, is that the financing must in any event be brought to 1%. This step must continue to be larger in percentage terms. What can I tell you today by looking at you? If you don't mind, I'll pass the budget here in less than an hour. In 2019, the budget will add 10% to R &amp; D in Estonia compared to 2018, and this will amount to approximately 20 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U15	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I'd like to move on to our discussion. Is the government ready for this, and has the Research and Development Council discussed that this is material science in the priority areas of research, is it e-developments, or is it modern construction or core infrastructure that should be developed for new programmes? Will new opportunities be created for the development of priority areas such as applied science?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U17	Thank you. Indeed, there is a debate on what direction should be prioritised. It must be acknowledged that these discussions have taken a bit of a different direction. There are those who say that we really should focus on certain areas of science, and there are those who say that we should still develop science as widely as possible. Which doesn't mean you don't have to stay focused. Now, these discussions in TAN have taken place. I have had the honour of being a member of the Scientific and Development Council for a year and ten months. I am absolutely convinced that these discussions will continue. Specific areas have been selected that could be particularly funded in the coming periods. These discussions have been and will certainly be there in the future. But to say it's a final list, it's not ready for that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U18	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Almost a year ago, on 5 December last year, you said here at the top of the Riigikogu: 'I will tell you, looking in the eye, that in any case, I am working to ensure that the contribution of the Estonian public sector to R &amp; D grows. ' Last week, ERR conducted an interview with Helir-Valdor Seeder and we were all able to hear that R &amp; D expenditure will remain at the same level next year. He probably referred to a percentage of GDP. I very much hope that you worked hard to increase this percentage, however, so that it would be closer to 1% in the country's budget strategy by 2019. Unfortunately, sometimes it happens that work doesn't follow results. My question to you is: what do you think was the obstacle to moving towards this 1%?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U20	Thank you. I am sure that my sentence will be the same on 26 September 2018: I am working, of course, on this, and I consider it important that the public sector's share of the R &amp; D budget be 1%. I'll look you in the eye when I tell you this, if you'll excuse me. What is actually being published now is 0.81%. In any case, I dare say that it is on the table every time in the TAN debate, either from one angle or another, how to increase this percentage. I replied to Krista Aru that, financially speaking, we have done so. If we compare the 2018 budget, if the base was ca 200 million, and the next year, this amount will be approximately 220 million. Growth is 10%. True, as GDP and the Estonian economy are growing, and there is once again a good opportunity to say thank you to Estonian entrepreneurs, to the Estonian people, this percentage will not change under the influence of these 20 additional million and is 0.81%. The second question, which has always been on the table, is how to bring the private sector along. I think this could be the subject of a serious debate before the Riigikogu elections, which could still be the motivation for the private sector to contribute more. When I answered Mrs Krista Aru's question, I also said that R &amp; D money is not only an HTM issue; I also mentioned MKM, for example. But in reply to the last part of your question, why is this figure still not 1%, I would say that we must look at the past. For 17 years, it could not be brought to 1%. Now we've moved on. True, we haven't caught 1% yet, but I'm sure that's where we're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U22	And now Arno Bridge asks and continues to answer Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We all have a fresh memory of the dance around the planned pulp factory in Tartu. A similar problem has now arisen in Võrumaa Väimela, where local people oppose the establishment of a canal for 300 000 chickens in Väimela village. I have this question: has it been studied in more detail about its suitability for how far these matters of investigation are? What is the government's view on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U24	Thank you, Arno Sild, a good member of the Riigikogu. Before I said thank you here to Krista Aru for raising the subject of research and development. I am very sympathetic to the debate with you on agriculture and rural issues. I think that you have always kept these issues in your heart, and that is what this question shows. It is true that the government has not discussed what happens to the establishment of the Väimela Chicken Farm, but the government, on the one hand, is based on the point of view and the principle that arises from the European Charter for Local Government and provides that local authorities are autonomous, and, on the other hand, chapter XIV of our Constitution also talks about the autonomy of local authorities. What do I mean by that? This planning issue is clearly the property of the local government. You brought the cellulose factory parallel, but there was a completely different process. First there, the Government of the Republic initiated a special plan, to which there was a very strong opposition from the city of Tartu: the mayor of Tartu opposed and the council opposed. After that, the government considered the matter, taking into account economic, social and environmental factors. Right now, I understand you're bringing out the voice of the people in this Väimela chicken farm, the voice of the local government. But I think that is the question of what they are doing in this planning process in Võru municipality. I still rely on peasant logic in such cases, on the one hand, but also on the legislative side. This is a matter for local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U25	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U26	Thank you. This is a local government issue, but the point is that until now it has not been discussed at all at the municipal or council level, but it is already in all kinds of planning. People are worried about how it's going to be in their plans, but there's no accurate overview of whether it's going to fit in with the manure business and everything else is going to work out. So somehow it should help to get this thing really settled objectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U27	Thank you. If you will allow me, I can simply recommend one thing that I think is fully in line with both the Constitution and the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. If someone, such as you, Mr Arno Sild, has been elected here by the highest power of Estonia, i.e. the people, then as a member of the Riigikogu, I have also had the honour to do this work, but in comparison with the current Chairman of the Riigikogu, for example, for a short time to look at the picture more widely. In my opinion, we cannot only focus on our own electoral area, but we need to look at the twelve regions - Estonia as a whole. If you have this issue of establishing a Väimela Chicken Farm on your heart, your letter, your meeting with the local community, local government and municipal council would certainly be appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! You yourself mentioned the case of the Tartu pulp factory. And in this context, I think it's a very good and instructive example of how screwed up one plan can be solved. In fact, that reference came from your own speech. If the local community is not included in the main phase, the result will be known in advance. Do you think that this approach, and this bad example, could have an impact on possible investments in the long term? Local people have had mistrust, they do not believe in the smart governance of the country, and this may also mean that perhaps the very good business investments that the rural area really needs, as you have said, are missing. Are you admitting this mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U30	Thank you. Now, as a member of the Riigikogu, you skilfully put together the special plan of Võru rural municipality and Väimela chicken farm and state and Est-For. But I'll try to unravel it a little bit and answer you. First of all, when we adopt the Constitution, Article 44 of the Constitution states very clearly that citizens have the right to information. The best way to do this is a detailed plan, which provides for three stages until it is established. It provides for publicity, also provides for an assessment of the environmental impact of public debates and the establishment of this chicken farming. This analysis must then help to take a final position. Now, in the case of Est-For, I understand that you are its supporter. At least on the basis of this question, it seemed to me that you felt that such an industry was needed in Estonia. As former mayor of Tartu, you certainly know better the conditions of this area. Of course, water and forest resources, infrastructure, proximity to infrastructure are important for investments by such companies. Your successor, you see, has categorically opposed this plan, although the new rector of the University of Tartu has said that the analysis could actually be completed. As you know, the government has decided that this special plan will be terminated. But I say this here today in front of you, and in that sense we are with you, I think, in one boat, that there is a great need for investments in Estonia that allow our timber to be worth more than its current capacity. But, of course, in this sense, Arno Silla's observation was correct, it must be born in cooperation with the local community and local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U32	Asks Taavi Rõivas, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I will start by quoting my question from the employer's manifesto, and this quote begins as follows: 'The constant tax changes in recent years have caused confusion and distrust of the country among all taxpayers. It has destroyed morale and had a negative impact on the entire country's tax revenue. Tax testing must be stopped. ' I believe that all of us who walk around Estonia and meet hundreds, if not thousands of people, feel that taxes have been passed both literally and in a transferred sense across the border. As Prime Minister, do you have the courage and determination to admit that something has gone wrong too, and maybe the tax changes that you made in such a hurry in 2017 have actually failed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U34	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Good Javier, if you don't mind, first of all, I wish you a happy birthday from this government box, and good luck and a lot of strength! And I am sure to thank you for what you have done to the Estonian state and to the people of Estonia! You started with a quote, honourable member of the Riigikogu, and allow me to start with a quote as well. The beginning of the quote is this: 'I do not wish to discuss this inappropriate, impervious text called Manifesto. It destroys coherence in our society. I believe that the authors of the manifesto do not represent the thoughts of the majority of Estonian entrepreneurs. ' This position is presented on 7 September 2010 in Äripäev, the author of the quote is then Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. On the contrary, I take the Manifesto "Time Victory" of this year's employers seriously. I think it is a serious document, and it is a good two-way call that focuses on points of pain, but also on good places. You have just highlighted tax policy aspects. I have to admit that very many entrepreneurs across Estonia have praised us. Aivar Sõerdi, a member of the Riigikogu, and I have been debating this topic several times. For example, at the end of 2016, when you were Prime Minister, VAT on accommodation facilities was a clear direction to raise it to 14%. The new government coalition foresaw that this increase would be cancelled, that VAT will be 9%. And it's still valid. We have been greatly praised for this. At the same time, the employer's manifest provides for further privatisation. In this century... I have an appointment, I'm sure we'll keep debating, then I'll go on with my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U35	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U36	Thank you, Prime Minister, and thank you very much for your congratulations. But despite our personal success, I'm still critical of your policy. Indeed, employers actually made a very specific proposal to your government, and this proposal is, I quote again: 'Make specific corrections to errors and then analyse whether the Estonian tax system needs major and extensive changes or not. " They are unambiguously saying in this manifesto that all the changes that were made in order to end the stagnation, as you explained, have actually proved to be wrong. And afterwards, we know that in 2016, what you called stagnation, the economy grew by 3.5%, which was a year of very good growth. Are you prepared to admit your mistake on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U37	Thank you. Once again, the current government takes the views of employers very seriously, this document. We take the employer's expenditure on workers, the desire to exempt them from the special preferential tax. It's done. I don't know why they've been against it for 17 years. Let's keep going. You're talking about tax increases. These mistakes have been corrected, and I am certainly not the one who says that we have only corrected the mistakes of previous governments. True, they have also been done, but we have also corrected certain errors of the current government in tax policy. The previous government had a very strong desire to increase the excise duty on diesel at the beginning of this year. In November 2016, we decided that the diesel excise duty will not rise from the beginning of this year. Think about it if it had also increased the Estonian tax component at today's world fuel prices! I think it would not have been good news for our economic sector, for our people. As far as alcohol policy is concerned, we have corrected our mistakes, canceled the increases in alcohol duty. We did so on 1 February this year, and we will do so at the beginning of next year and also at the beginning of 2020. But we have also corrected the mistakes of the previous government's alcohol policy, such as the increase in the excise duty on strong alcohol. The employer's manifesto, to which you referred, says that Estonia's tax burden is below 35%. And if we look at the budget for next year, which is due to be adopted by the Riigikogu today, we can see that the tax burden percentage is 33.6 this year and is projected to fall to 3.1% by 2022. But, of course, if you may point out differences of opinion, you say that employers look alike, the government sees differently, then I say one thing. The Manifest wants higher education to be paid. In any case, I think that higher education, as well as medical care, need not depend on income; they must be accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U38	There is one point to be specified. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U39	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I remember the year 2015, when the new government decided to exponentially increase fuel excise duty in April and May. A year later, the Confederation of Employers had to appeal to the Head of Government, Mr. Rõivas, to lower excise duties, since the average price of diesel was 10 cents more expensive than in Latvia. At the time, however, people were advised to buy more sustainable cars. Certainly many employers looked hopefully towards the new government, i.e. taking steps in view of the conditions of competition in the market, especially in our neighbouring countries. Today, fuel is cheaper in our neighbouring countries, and Estonia has lost many millions. For what reason did the government miss the opportunity to reduce excise duties on fuel in particular in order to be able to compete with the Latvian and Lithuanian markets when preparing the state budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U40	Thank you. If I may, I will take a few moments to answer the previous question, because it actually concerns your question as well. With the social partners, whether they are employers or trade unions, we have a better dialogue. I am very pleased that, for the first time already on 22 May, a tripartite meeting was held with the Prime Minister, where both employers and employees were represented. The last meeting took place here weeks ago. Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, and Mailis Reps, Minister of Education and Science, also participated. I quoted the former Prime Minister earlier, and I would like to say that our dialogue and attitude to the employer's manifesto are quite different. I didn't get an answer before, but yes, the manifest also proposes that the state privatize its companies. Well, we've done that in a certain part, haven't we? Take, for example, the placing of the Port of Tallinn on the stock exchange, so that it is the people of Estonia who can buy these shares. This is, in my view, a good example of economic recovery, and once again, the question is why, in this century, this is the first time. Now, in answer to your question on excise policy, I say in this way that, yes, the various cuts in excise duty were on the table, but the table had not only their fiscal effects, but also their substantive effects. And there were questions on the table, and until then, excise duty should be lowered. As far as diesel is concerned, we do not really have to compete with Latvia, but with Lithuania. We can see that the Lithuanian price level is much lower than in Latvia and Estonia. And the decision remained on the table that other goals in society should be taken into account: the increase in teachers' pay and the increase in wages in other sectors. And that is the budget as a whole we can submit to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U42	Asks Külliki Kübarsepp, answers the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U43	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! In the Committee on Legal Affairs, the debate was on the construction of the eastern border, where several signals from the Ministry of the Interior came up that this construction market is quite narrow on the part of the state. In this connection, I would like to ask you about the perspective for the next five years. In what scale and objects is the state already designing and building? What is the real cost that we as a country will bear over the next five years, and how much more will the European Union come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U44	Thank you for a very relevant question. Unfortunately, as far as the second part of the question is concerned, how many funds come from the European Union, negotiations are still under way. Namely, the new financial period of the European Union begins the year after that and we have charted the possible proportions of Estonia there. We expect that we will still receive quite a lot of support for infrastructure sites, too, but the negotiations will be closed once agreement has been reached on all issues. For example, in the newly renewed road plan, the objects for 2021 and 2022 have still been left open, because, just as in the previous financial period, we are going to use the European Union's money for the construction of major infrastructure objects in the next period. Our budget vision capacity is four years. This is how larger objects are budgeted, and so it can be said that work on building four-way roads will continue in three main directions. Until now, the most advanced route has been to Tallinn in the direction of Tartu, and in 2022 the section of Kose-Mäo will be completed and the distance between Tallinn and Tartu will be reduced by five kilometres. But the works have been designed and already financed both in the Via Baltica direction and in the construction of the Narva four-line highway. In addition, under the administration of the Road Administration, there is a continuous upgrading of the local supporting roads and we have restored the amounts that have been cut down into black cover. For the next four years, the amount of money to cover the country's gravel roads should be 7.5 million every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U45	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U46	Thank you. My great wish is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will take the full picture, which takes place in Estonia with large investments. It does not just touch Rail Baltic, it certainly needs to think about the eastern border. At the Ministry of Finance, I know, they're trying to find investments for the county service centers. They need to be built. The result of all this is, as the Ministry of the Interior clearly states in the case of the eastern border: we clearly have a shortage of labour. We cannot deal with all these objects in Estonia at the same time. Have you analyzed this effect? What will be the consequences if we start developing all these projects simultaneously, both economically and on the labour side? And if you sense that labour shortages are a serious problem, then we will probably have to take into account the increase in the cost of work in the budget at all times. What percentage are you counting on all the time? For example, it's not normal to build an eastern border in 11 years, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U48	... perhaps it should be taken into account that labour shortages make it even longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U49	Thank you. Indeed, the large share of Estonia's gross domestic product is accounted for by the construction sector, both by public orders and by the private sector, is constantly monitored. It can be said that in the boom years before the previous crisis, the construction sector accounted for almost 10% of our GDP. During the crisis, this share decreased and now, in recent years, has reached an optimal level of 7% of GDP. Even before the crisis and before heating, this optimal level was 6 to 7%. Now, what are we seeing now? We also see that, in fact, productivity in the construction sector could be higher than it is. And that's why two years ago, when the government changed, the Ministry of the Economy was strengthened in the field of construction. Construction became one of the responsibilities of the Minister for Enterprise. To support him, Jüri Rass began to work as the special Deputy Chancellor of Construction. One of the priorities is, for example, the introduction of e-construction: improving communication between construction companies and the public sector and the processes taking place in the sector. So if there is a situation where there is a shortage of builders, then productivity simply needs to be increased. But in general, large important objects that require labor have been taken into account. You can already see the first positive trends. The builders who left years ago for the construction work to our northern neighbours and got a good and reliable job from there are returning, as demand for these skills has come back in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U50	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U51	Thank you. If you don't mind, there's an observation first. The Prime Minister quoted here an earlier Prime Minister from eight years ago when he commented on a completely different document. On this document of this year, your very close party partner, Raimond Kaljulaid, has said something about a millionaire wail. In any case, that's a very ugly thing to say. So it's worth harmonising these points. In general, I like this view more that it is worth listening to the views of entrepreneurs. But a question for Kadri Samson. I am pleased to hear that the construction area was strengthened by the Deputy Chancellor. I remember when the government changed, you said that your most important investment project, one of the big things that makes the economy grow, was the renovation of the city hall. My question is simple. As a person in Tallinn, I have often visited the area and have not yet noticed construction works. Maybe I missed something. How are you doing with these constructions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U52	Thank you. Since you have allowed yourself a digression to the employer's manifesto as an introduction to the question, I will take this opportunity. Last Wednesday I had a very sympathetic meeting with the Confederation of Employers Council. We really take them very seriously as partners. We have done a number of things that the previous government did not even bring up; it was also clearly mentioned in that face-to-face meeting. And we will continue to do the same, not only in our relations with employers, but also, for example, with the representative organisations of job-winners, or trade unions. As for the city hall, the construction of the city hall is the responsibility of my good colleague. However, when it comes to important strategic investments, I would rather draw attention to investments in the existing rail network and also to four-line roads, which do not only reduce time-space distances between larger cities, but also bring more security to traffic. In the case of the city hall, as far as I know, the European Commission is currently dealing with answers to questions raised in connection with the State Aid Communication. To this end, a cost-benefit analysis must be completed, including Ernst & Young. The improved materials will return to the European Commission in November. This is a very demanding procedure, because we must have an adequate explanation of how a market failure has arisen. In fact, there is hope of obtaining a State aid authorisation from the European Union. This is the result of past experience of similar projects in other countries. We also have a market failure for a large conference centre. Such a conference centre, which would bring more added value to Estonia, we do not have at present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U54	Mart Helme asks, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas responds. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You've already answered Danske's bank questions, but I'm interested in another one. You said that the government would do everything in its power to prevent such a situation from happening again. I wonder what the government is doing to find out whose incompetence, official negligence, or corruption made such a situation possible over the years. I am also interested in whether the government intends to request, systematise and find out why the necessary procedures have not been initiated, all related documentation, including criminal reports or other referrals to the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U56	Thank you, good questioner! I would add so much to the debate with Jürgen Ligi that, under the leadership of the Minister of Finance, we are working on the Committee on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, whose report will be produced in October. So really, the government is paying very serious attention to this very bad case, both in terms of reputation and content. In answer to your question, as I answered the previous questioner on this subject, I think that we must now be so smart that all the wrong steps taken during the 2007/2015 period, or the unfinished steps, can be identified and found out why it all lasted so long. True, I don't know what to say right now, but it is known that the prosecutor's office has also started several proceedings in connection with this case or case. I very much hope that, by the end of the day, no matter what the outcome will be, all the bottlenecks will emerge. There are things that have been done wrong. And I don't see any reason to hold on jealously to the information we've received. On the contrary, this must be communicated to the banking sector and, of course, also to the Riigikogu. After all, the Riigikogu itself deals very seriously with this issue, as far as I know, of the Legal Affairs Committee. So the exchange of information, I'd say, international exchange of information is important. After all, this is also the case for every individual when it turns out that someone whom he has trusted and, in the case of a bank, trust is the most important criterion, that trust has been abused.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U57	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U58	Thank you. Well, that sounds really nice. The exchange of information is, of course, a fine thing, but I did not receive an answer as to whether these documents would be required, whether these documents would be put on the table and analysed on the basis of them, and why, among other things, the laws on money laundering were relaxed during the time of the Ministers of Justice Michal and Pevkur. I am also interested to see if the government, as I say, links the possibility of money laundering and long-term durability with, for example, the question of the VEB Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U59	I want to say it again, I stress from my position that this issue is on the government table all the time. We have discussed this and we will discuss it tomorrow. You're asking me if all things will be cleared up to the details. Yes, for my part, I will do everything to find out all the details of where something has been done wrong, where there have been these, say, administrative or capacity gaps. I think it is such a serious problem, such a serious damage to the reputation, that it must be learned and tried to move forward smarter. So the answer is, it's a continuous process. Of course, the confidence of the banking sector, the financial sector, is the most important thing we offer to bank customers. And the Estonian state must deal with it at government level through the PB and the Financial Supervision Authority. In addition, a number of working groups and the Commission have been set up. So we certainly do not just declare our readiness, but it exists every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U60	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Very dear Prime Minister! I am concerned about the constant understanding of the damage that the country itself has not caused. For example, the damage to the occupation is like we've been occupying ourselves. Now, this next step means this, or listening to what you're saying, it's like we're already guilty in advance, even though our Financial Supervision Authority did a final precept and did what it had to do. The question arises as to whether we do not trust these institutions. And why, in the course of this communication, do you not deal with the fight against PR companies that are damaging Estonia's reputation? I do not understand this, and I would like to know whether the government has a strategic communication plan for action before we plead guilty on a matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U62	Thank you. What do you mean, we're guilty? When I say that what happened needs to be investigated so that things like this don't happen again, it doesn't mean you're guilty. On the contrary, it means getting to the source of problems or wrong actions. I don't know why that is, but if someone from the Reform Party asks, I always feel like I want to hold on to my responsibility. It hasn't been that difficult for 17 years, but you've been inactive all along. You're asking about strategic communication. Well, really, maybe you don't remember that. When you were at the government table, there was no strategic communication team at the State Chancellery. There was a person who handled it. Today, this team exists, today it is created. You're asking if the strategic communication team is working on this subject. Yeah, dealing with every day of the business! He is involved in monitoring Estonian media and international media image, giving answers, giving interviews, preparing them and collecting information. I'm just getting the hang of it right now, there's a difference in the flow of information that we use. And this is not at all a reproach on you. However, I would like to say that this too was, in fact, an unresolved matter at national level, a matter of strategic communication. We can see that, unfortunately, such difficult cases may occur at some point in the country. And now this team has been set up. So the answer is that the strategic communication team is working on this subject, I dare say, close to ten people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U63	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U64	Enn Meri asks, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers. Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Prime Minister! There has been a press conference today, and I am afraid that this question has been put to you perhaps earlier, but let me put it to you for my part. Looking at what has been said so far about the new budget, it seems that the budget is in a slight deficit. The Board is talking about 0.2%, maybe the actual number is something else, I don't know yet. But I know so much that the golden rule in macroeconomics, as we know, is that we need to collect reserves in good times and use them when times aren't so good. Why won't the government do it this time? Can't you see there's a risk of overheating, especially in our construction sector, as Külliiki's Hatter pointed out earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U66	Thank you very much for this question. Indeed, if you will allow, today the government can send the budget to the honourable Riigikogu. I understand that your question is about the state of the budget. So let's start in 2018, because we're currently reviewing this year. It is safe to say that the 2018 budget is in nominal surplus of around EUR 173 million and is also in structural surplus of around 0.1%. Now that we look at the years 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 in the budgetary process, we are also looking at the three years after the specific financial year, we see that it is structurally balanced in all years. The last year's state of play shows that the budget is in a small structural surplus and in all subsequent years it will be in nominal surplus. In other words, apart from these complicated words, the budget is made in a very responsible manner. The budget will certainly be made in such a way that we do not live today for future generations. And the budget will certainly be done in such a way that it solves the very many important issues that are currently in the Estonian country. We take internal security, teachers' salaries, the wages of cultural workers, our IT infrastructure, these are all areas that are included in the budget. Let's take the biggest 585 million. That is our budgetary position. And I'm going to end this by asking you about the reserves, that I think it's a simple statement: the debt is a foreign one. By 2022, the debt burden in Estonia will fall to 5.4% of GDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will then ask whether the effects of the overheating that is currently taking place have been taken into account in the country's budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U68	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U69	Regarding overheating, point 1: The calculations by the Ministry of Finance show that there are no signs of overheating at the moment. Point 2 is that, if you think about overheating in 2008 and 2009, which we always make for comparison, there are certainly no examples of this. After all, the budgetary process is also characterised by the fact that the Board always carries out its own expertise and evaluates it. They also estimate that the overheating that was ten years ago certainly does not appear in the current economic space. Now, what I want to say about this budget is that I think it is important to emphasise the very important contribution of entrepreneurs to economic growth and also the contribution of Estonian workers. As your entrepreneur from Saaremaa, you certainly know how difficult it is to take risks every day. On the other hand, I would like to say that the economic growth that we saw last year is approximately 4.6 to 4.7%, this year 3.5 and next year's budget is made with an economic growth of 3%, that I think that on the government side and on the state side and on the Riigikogu side we must all make it sustainable, that it is inclusive and that it is not only important what these figures are in the tables. So I would say that with this budget, if you produce this overheating, there are a number of areas that actually get leverage and a solution. Take, for example, health care, additional funding for the Health Insurance Fund, which is like a real reduction in the number of treatments (about 40 million). Additional funding for local governments, which are actually closest to our people, depends on whether the street is enlightened, whether the street has been wiped out, how social benefits are, how kindergarten places are, and also whether local authorities can gain leverage. In addition, public transport, which will certainly benefit from more funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U70	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! In the Committee on Rural Affairs, we have heard that the performance reserve for European Union funds has been set up to cover the construction of Tartu and the main roads in Tallinn. The Board has said that the government should also draw on structural surpluses when drawing up the budget. Do all these steps, which you are actually ignoring certain peasantry, still not suggest that the government is clearly going beyond its capabilities and is seen as covering those cash flows that we cannot predict very clearly today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U72	First let's take this performance reserve, and that's what we're talking about. After all, the assumption is that we can co-finance, we can do everything, implement projects. That's the basis of everything. If you are now saying that it is bad when we use this opportunity for a performance reserve or a result, I do not understand this ideology at all. That's point one. Go on, you say we're going overboard with this budget. I am telling you that this budget has been made in structural balance. I'm telling you, our debt will be reduced. I say to you that at the end of this period, it will show a structural surplus. So I'm saying that your claim that we're going through our powers is wrong. On the contrary, we are doing everything in good time to reduce the debt burden on Estonia. This, of course, does not mean that certain debates cannot be held. For example, a debate about the construction of infrastructure in Estonia could be held. If we want to improve connections to Tallinn, Tallinn, Narva, Tallinn, Pärnu and the West, this debate could be held entirely separately, so how do we build these infrastructures? The construction of infrastructure for the next 20 to 30 years is, in my view, not the solution. We will also see specific road sections next year, which we want to build in particular with regard to road safety. Yes, they're 15 million in size, but we know that these road sections have tragically killed a number of people in this century.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U73	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, All seven questioners have been asked their questions. I thought it was a dynamic and perfect briefing. It's 2:00. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U74	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? The Government of the Republic does. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U75	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services and related amendments to other laws. Riigikogu represents Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, the Government of the Republic, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws. And thirdly, the 2019 State Budget Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U76	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Allow me, on behalf of eight members of the Riigikogu, to present an inquiry into inadequate measures to deal with drought damage. We all know what an extraordinary summer is behind us. Farmers are still making more detailed summaries, but the situation is very serious. Animals are already being sold and meat combinations have long queues, even wondering how to survive this difficult winter. This year's drought caused great damage to Estonian agriculture. Total yields are a third lower, cereal yields are 39% lower than in the previous year. The hay yield is half as low as the average for many years. A large part of the newly planted grassland has been destroyed, while a third of the livestock owners have stocked less than half of the feed needed. 68% of livestock farmers have to buy more feed, but its price keeps rising. Nearly 75% of producers end up with losses in the year, with a third of producers having problems in complying with contracts. In such a serious situation, I would like to get an explanation from the Minister for Rural Affairs on how to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U78	I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. We will continue to process them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 90 members of the Riigikogu. Let's go to today's agenda. First of all, updating and clarifying the agenda. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu meeting regarding the transfer of the 2019 draft state budget. On the basis of paragraphs 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Home and Working Rules Act, I will add to today's agenda and add to it the first item of the Prime Minister's political statement. This clarification concerns item No 7, which is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Poland on mutual facilitation and protection of investments (672 SE). The draft is initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Minister of Health and Labour Riina Sikkut is a waitress by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U79	Let's get to the agenda. Let me briefly remind you of the procedure on the first item. The Prime Minister's political statement may last up to 25 minutes. No questions will be asked to the rapporteur, and after that, I will open the negotiations to the representatives of the political groups. Please, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U80	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu Marianne and Tavi, allow me to wish you many congratulations on this day by the government as well! It is my great honour to hand over to the Riigikogu the second draft state budget prepared by the current government. Like the state budget for 2018, this is a financial document in support of a responsible and sustainable fiscal policy. Moreover, the 2019 state budget provides a positive boost to the comprehensive development of Estonia. With a budget of more than EUR 11 billion, we owe all the good entrepreneurs and other people who have contributed to the construction of our country this year and over the past decades. The government of the Social Democratic Party, the Fatherland and the Estonian Centre Party is based on four goals set in the creation of the government: bringing Estonia's population up again, increasing the well-being and cohesion of society, promoting economic growth in Estonia and maintaining and developing the security of our state. Next year's state budget will contribute in all these directions. Honourable ambassadors! The economy of the Republic of Estonia, which celebrates its 100th birthday this year, is doing well. Gross domestic product will grow for nine consecutive years, and in recent years we have seen faster growth than before. For example, last year's economic growth reached 4.9%, which is more than we were able to do in the five years preceding it. A decent increase of more than 3.5% is also expected this year, and the growth figures available will continue in the coming years. We certainly need to recognise our entrepreneurs, who have created many more jobs in recent years and have contributed to the growth of people's incomes. There are more than ever wage earners in Estonia. In the previous quarter, nearly 75% of the population aged 15 to 64 were employed, which is more than in most other EU countries. This high level is also record for re-independence Estonia. Our economic position is improving both in Europe and globally. As we know, Estonia's gross domestic product per capita increased to 77% of the European Union average in 2017 in terms of purchasing power. Step by step, together, we move closer to the wealthier Western European countries and also to the Nordic countries each year. Of course, Estonia still has a long journey ahead of us, but the goal must always be ambitious. In doing so, we also need to make good use of the gradually decreasing structural resources of the European Union. The positive economic cycle is also based on the 2019 state budget, which is nominally in surplus and structurally balanced. The tax burden will remain stable between 33% and 34% in the coming years and the debt ratio is expected to fall from 8,2% in 2018 to 7,4% in the following year, but will not stop there. In doing so, we will only reach 5.4% of our debt by 2022. We pay back EUR 70 million of loans every year from 2019, because it is not financially sensible to increase reserves at the moment. The return on reserves is very low or even negative against a background of high inflation, which leads to a reduction in their real value over time. Besides, as folk wisdom says, the debt is foreign. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Of course, good economic growth and very good public finances do not mean that we can just rest. On the contrary! We need to further develop our country every day, including e-state. The government will therefore allocate 118 million euros over the next four years for the maintenance, upgrade and development of e-government information systems and equipment in Estonia. As a result of the necessary investments, we will improve the user comfort of our e-services, as well as security. Dealing with the country must be as effective as possible. On the basis of the ICT development plan, in turn, we support the digitisation of industrial companies, we provide support for product development and we open new offices abroad. I am pleased that the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, Statistics Estonia and Eesti Pank are actively cooperating to reduce the burden on companies to provide data. Cutting unnecessary paperwork and administration must be one of the objectives of each public authority. The zero bureaucracy project must not remain merely a slogan, but must clearly help to reduce bureaucratic requirements in dealing with the country. 2019 will bring tax peace to businesses and people, which will provide additional certainty. The government coalition canceled the increases in past legalised excise duties on alcohol and, as we know, we also halved the increase in excise duty on strong alcohol and beer planned for the beginning of this year. We must certainly continue to work on the minimalisation of border trade that has grown too quickly in the intervening years. The excise duty on petrol and diesel fuel will not change in the coming year either. I think it is very right that the current government coalition abolished the 10% increase in excise duty on diesel introduced by the previous government in view of economic development. According to the media, a number of current opposition ambassadors have also acknowledged the error of the proposed increase in excise duty. Diesel is an important cost item for companies and thus has an impact on the prices of many goods and services. We need to keep fuel prices at a competitive level. Good listeners! Next year's state budget will primarily contribute to people, public services and rural development. By contributing to quality services, whether education or health or safety, we invest in a stronger, more coherent and also prosperous society. In doing so, the current government has from the outset valued and emphasised the role of local authorities and the importance of rural areas. It is the duty of the state to ensure decent living conditions for all its inhabitants, not to restrict itself to the development of so-called centres of attraction. The Estonian state has been successful since the restoration of independence, but the development of our economy has not been uniform. Unfortunately, there are regions in Estonia where the recovery of economic growth after the last crisis is particularly difficult. We also know today that we have counties where there is no shortage of labour, but there are few jobs. This situation exacerbates regional income inequalities and boosts both domestic migration and emigration. In order to achieve the cohesion of society and greater well-being, it is important that the gap between Estonian counties is not too great. That is why we must place great emphasis on regional development next year. We will continue to increase the income base of local governments, pay transitional payments to farmers and several regional programmes. More specifically, through regional support programmes, the state allocates additional funding to the economic recovery of East-Viru County and South-East Estonia and to create jobs with higher added value. The programme for Ida-Virumaa will receive almost EUR 5 million next year and the programme for South-East Estonia will receive approximately EUR 800000. According to the decisions of the state budget strategy, their funding will continue until 2022. Entrepreneurship must not be concentrated only in larger centres. Jobs also need to be created where there are more jobseekers. As a result, labour shortages and unemployment will be reduced simultaneously. I do not consider normal a situation that has lasted for years, where people are forced to leave for bread every day for tens and tens of miles or move to a larger center from their home to get a suitable job. All of Estonia must live! We will also contribute to the development of local life by increasing public transport subsidies by nearly 10 million euros, or 101 million euros, in next year's budget. We are also implementing a number of smaller regional investments. The reform of municipal funding has increased their revenues and allowed them to provide better, better quality services to their residents. The capacity of municipalities and cities to carry out the necessary investments for their inhabitants is also growing. The incomes of local governments will increase by around 5% next year, amounting to almost EUR 2.2 billion. Similarly, as I have already pointed out, we will continue to pay out the maximum amount of transitional payments to farmers. All these steps are crucial, because a strong local level and sustainable rural life guarantee a viable country. Respectables! Our economic growth must be sustainable and inclusive, i.e. reach all the people of Estonia. That is why we have decided to contribute to an increase in the income of workers and we will increase the payroll fund for employees who receive public income by 2.5%. The most noticeable wage increases lie ahead in the areas of education, culture, social welfare and internal security. In order to increase the Teachers' payroll, EUR 9.7 million more is foreseen than this year, resulting in an average teacher's salary reaching EUR 1 500. In order to raise the wages of cultural workers, the budget is EUR 3.4 million and the average wage is also rising in this sector. Similarly, the incomes of kindergarten teachers, social welfare specialists, veterinary practitioners, IT specialists and many other important professions are rising. The government already agreed during the discussion of the state's budget strategy that in 2019 the Police and Border Guard Board's salary increase would be set at EUR 12.9 million and the Salvation Board's payroll fund would increase by EUR 7.9 million. The salaries of police officers and border guards will be at least EUR 1280 for the coming year, plus regional charges. For example, in Ida-Virumaa, the policeman's income will be EUR 1700. The average wages of the rescuers will rise by 23.6% from the coming year to EUR 1000. On average, the basic salary of the rescuers is increased by 11% for night work and holiday work. The remuneration fund for the staff of the Information Technology and Development Centre of the Ministry of the Interior (SMIT) is also growing, with an additional amount of EUR 1.9 million being allocated. On average, the salaries of SMIT employees will rise by 20%, allowing the institution to maintain competitive levels of pay in the sector. The Salary Fund for the Emergency Response Centre is growing by 8%. Each person deserves a fair reward for his work. The wage increases proposed provide assurance that all of us in key positions of security and the future will be rewarded with dignity. There is no doubt that the necessary wage increases will have to continue in the years to come. We also allocate substantial additional money to national defence. The total planned defence budget for 2019 is EUR 585 million, which is estimated at 2.16% of the projected GDP. We value the Defence Forces by bringing the average wage level of the active troops by 30% above the average in Estonia in 2019 and we will continue to maintain this level. The equipment and weaponry of the Defence Forces and the Defence League will also be improved. Almost 40% of the total defence budget is planned for various defence procurements, with the support of which we will strengthen our military capabilities. We will pay the last contractual instalment of infantry combat vehicles CV90 and complete the modernisation of naval mines. We'll continue the large-scale procurement of ammunition. Investments in national defence and its infrastructure will continue to develop the campuses and training fields of the Defence Forces. This will ensure the necessary training environment for our defence forces and allies and modern living conditions. All these steps will help to secure peace and security in our country and in the wider world. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The economic success of the country must always reach the elderly. The average old-age pension will increase by 7.6% in the new year, from EUR 447 to EUR 481. Pension increases could, of course, always be faster, but this is a necessary step to support the monthly delivery and management of people of dignified age. I think it is very important that the elderly, who live only in retirement, do not have to pay income tax on the average old-age pension next year. We will also continue to support improving the livelihood of pensioners living alone, with a budget of EUR 10 million. Similarly, we contribute in the field of social welfare. The financing of special care services will increase to EUR 36,9 million, which will enable funding to be provided both for existing services and for the creation of new ones. Social rehabilitation funding will increase to EUR 12.7 million in order to ensure both faster access to aid and higher aid volumes. The government will continue to implement health reform. In total, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is increasing by as much as EUR 180 million. Targeting additional healthcare tools will help to shorten treatment queues and improve access to medical care. Similarly, we will continue to pay additional medical benefits to tens of thousands of people with high medical needs in order to reduce their costs for prescription medicines. An additional EUR 9 million has been earmarked for the additional reimbursement of the cost of the high own-shared preferential medicines for the coming year. We must actively contribute as a country and society to improve people's health and increase healthy life years. It is also necessary to ensure that all elderly people have a dignified old age. Very Honourable Riigikogu! Through the state budget, we will channel EUR 370 million into investments. We invest in very important transport and infrastructure projects, rural development and cultural and sporting projects. I will just give you a few examples. Tehvandi's sports centre EUR 6.1 million; ERR's television complex EUR 2 million; Reconstruction of the Estonian National Library building € 1.3 million; Fisheries sector €11 million; Promotion of agriculture and rural areas €59.1 million; Rail Baltic €31 million; Construction of Kose-Mäo section into four-line building €31.5 million. Large financial allocations are accompanied by much smaller local investments. Public finances have been well maintained and we will continue to implement a responsible and sustainable fiscal policy for growth. Each state budget must contribute to the welfare of the people of Estonia and thus contribute to the increase in our population. Estonia must be the country in which it wants to stay and where it wants to come to work, to live, to create a family. We have been a country with great emigration for years, but for the last three years more people have arrived in Estonia than they have left. In so doing, I am very happy that thousands of Estonians have just returned to their homeland. I also consider it right and important to give a clear signal from this honourable Riigikogu speech chair that all people who left Estonia in previous years are welcome back to their homeland. May they come back, even temporarily, but hopefully a lot of them will always come back. Good thought mates! The anniversary year of the Republic of Estonia has been a good year for us as a country and nation. Economic growth is increasing, people's wages are on the rise, and our people have the necessary jobs, diverse learning opportunities and other applications. As we continue on the same course, 2019 will be at least as positive and we will be able to celebrate the 101st anniversary of our country in an even more just, prosperous and successful country. I would like to warmly thank the Ministry of Finance, all other ministries, the State Chancellery and every official for all their work and contributions to the state budget. I also sincerely acknowledge the coalition's parties.. the Social Democratic Party and the Fatherland Party and my home party. Likewise, I thank the opposition parties and Members for their thoughts and inputs. These many debates that we have held this year will be reflected in this budget, whether it be to draw attention to agriculture or to draw attention to local governments. I also thank the private sector and civil society organisations. The 2019 budget is a product of our joint work and I call on all Members to support it. Thank you for your attention and I would like to wish the honourable Riigikogu a constructive and positive debate on the state budget. Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U81	Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U82	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Me too, thank you. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the fact that, during his speech, it was also possible to open the basic document of the state budget in the Bill Information System. Until now, there was an indication of 'intra-house use' and could not be opened. Inevitably, the criticism of opposition parties is probably increasing in time, as we are not in a very single information field, but we can probably say something because of public sources and activities so far, the budgetary strategy of the state and other documents. I will start by mentioning economic development among the priorities of the budget. We are critical in one sense. Enn Meri raised a question in Question Time about the possible overheating and the need for reserves. In our opinion, in those years when the Estonian economy is doing quite well, the government has not acted with the budget in such a way as to ensure that the longer-term future is protected in the best possible way. This, however, puts the economic development as a priority into question quite a bit. The pope of Rome told us something yesterday that is a universal truth: he said that a good life does not necessarily mean a well - lived life. I think it can be transferred to a great many areas of life, and if I paraphrase this sentence here, I would say that a good economic position does not necessarily mean a well-preceived economic policy. In this regard, we believe that one has not been done. And that also calls into question the other priorities that you have mentioned, whether it be a greater population, prosperity or security. I shall first point to one of the bad tendencies that has begun to deteriorate again. Again, the public sector has taken up or is about to dictate wage increases. And, Prime Minister, do not get behind teachers and rescuers in this question. We have no intention of challenging the rise in their pay, but I would point out here that the Free Party has proposed with several drafts that the public sector cut actually start at the top political level, be it political parties, be it ministries. And from here on, we should look inside all ministries one by one to find places for duplication and substitution activities and to cut public spending in a reasonable way. I was particularly impressed at today's government press conference that if, at the end of the day, a journalist from Äripäev asked about the change in total public expenditure in the state budget, there was no answer to that. We promise that we will ask this question again and again during the budgetary procedure. Finally, one more thing that says that the government does not take into account the long-term perspective of our economy and does not make the best use of our current good economic context. It is a fact that the contribution to education, innovation and research still leaves something to be desired. You have spoken, Prime Minister, about education in the context of teachers' pay, but not in substance. I also have to remember the words of the President of the Academy of Sciences in a TV show yesterday, where he said about the fact that the most religious people in Estonia are those who draw up the state budget, because they believe that Estonian science continues to evolve and progress without the government contributing to it. I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U83	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U84	And finally, a couple of margins, or margins. Tax truce has been mentioned here many times, and so did the Prime Minister in his speech. This is a tax truce imposed on it, which probably results from a great many failures. Excise policy has already been mentioned. However, there has in fact not been a clear political responsibility for these failures. In the meantime, there has also been talk of reducing excise duties; however, this is not reflected in the budget. I also note that there have been a number of problems with this EUR 500 income tax exemption. It would make sense if it were extended to everyone. One major problem certainly is the withdrawal of the possibility of joint returns by spouses. Jne, et cetera. So your talk about a tax truce is not very convincing, precisely in the sense that it is making peace, perhaps with its own mistakes, rather than a substantive approach to the objective of having a good tax record. However, I liked the fact that the Prime Minister stopped on his return journey and that Estonians were welcome back to Estonia. This message should sound powerful in the good times of the economy, but again I feel that the government and the executive do not really do their best to achieve it. In order to create the necessary conditions, actively recall these people, also ensure that putting return children into school or kindergarten is smooth and painless, all of this has not been done enough. But, as I said, we will deepen the state budget at first, second and third readings and we will certainly make our own proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U85	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U86	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Firstly, one can only agree with Andres Herkel's view that the opposition's criticism is increasing over time. At the same time, I suspect that this is not due to a shift in information as much as the elections are approaching. But this is the context in which we will be clear this autumn, and it is understandable in any case and welcome as a whole. On behalf of the Socialists, I would like to say a few words about this state budget. The Prime Minister has read the priorities of the government to us quite thoroughly, and I will therefore focus on only a few aspects. The 2019 state budget is the fifth successive budget that social democrats can shape according to their worldview and priorities as government departments. In three successive governments, we have been able to achieve all our basic goals, while ensuring that the new government, which is starting in spring next year, is in order with finances, a balanced budget, as well as considerable economic growth. The 2019 budget of more than EUR 11 billion is in nominal surplus as well as structural balance. The most important objective of the Socialists has been to improve the well-being of children without doubt during this period. We started with the government in 2014, when one in ten children lived in absolute poverty and child support had remained unchanged at EUR 19 per month for more than ten years. We have set out to triple child support, and we can say that it is precisely with this budget that this will be done. In January of the coming year, the allowance for the first and second children will be EUR 60 per month. We have paid special attention to improving the livelihood of families with many children, and the three-child family is supported by the state with a total of EUR 520 per month from next year. In addition, we have put in place a number of solutions to improve the situation of parents raising children alone, including a maintenance fund. While in 2014 the country allocated EUR 100 million per year for family benefits, the amount will be tripled in the following year, or EUR 300 million per year for a whole amount, and Estonia will spend more on family benefits as a percentage of GDP than any other Member State other than Luxembourg. Given our very low social costs in comparison with the rest of Europe, this is not a small achievement. We can already see the positive impact of these steps from statistics. The number of children living in absolute poverty decreased three times in the first two years, which means that we were able to bring a whole of 20,000 Estonian children out of absolute poverty. As a result, we can say something that could not be said four years ago: Estonia has become a country where having a child does not mean having a family into poverty. And that is the long-term assumption that we will have more children. Having a child means responsibility for long years, and the family needs to have confidence that it can provide a safe development environment for the child and can cope with the child's maintenance even if something goes wrong at work or in family life. Another important cornerstone of social democracy policy has been the salaries of workers in sectors that are critical to the development and survival of Estonian society. In 2014, when we began to bear the responsibility for governance, the teacher's minimum wage was EUR 800. With this state budget, we will raise the minimum wage for teachers to EUR 1250 next year, which is 56% for five years. We also managed to restore the kindergarten program, which was developed in the run-up to the sots in our time, and as a result, the pay of kindergarten teachers has been thriving towards the pay of school teachers. Next year, we will support LA with 15 million euros so that the minimum wage for a kindergarten teacher is 90% of that of a school teacher and that a school teacher with a master's degree can receive a minimum wage equal to that of a school teacher. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U87	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U88	The wages of cultural workers, which started three years ago, continue to increase. The minimum wage for highly educated cultural workers will rise by EUR 100 next year, reaching EUR 1250. By comparison, in 2015, when you reached the Ministry of Culture, the minimum fee for a highly educated cultural worker was only EUR 731. However, the greatest increase in wages is likely to be met by rescuers. Their average basic salary will increase by 20%, exceeding the 1000 euro threshold, while the wages of patrol officers will reach EUR 1280 plus regional fees. It all strengthens our internal security. Health funding, reaching €1.3 billion, will be significantly improved. An additional €180 million will be added to the Health Insurance Fund, which will enable people to receive better medical care and shorter waiting lists. For more than several years, the reform of healthcare funding has driven the Health Insurance Fund out of budget, and we have also started to shorten the queues in several disciplines. In addition, more than 80,000 people with high medical needs have received the necessary medicines at a more favourable rate thanks to the additional medical prescription, and 170000 have received more favourable dental care with public support, which will continue next year. In order to develop e-state solutions and infrastructure, the budget will provide an additional €21 million, which is part of the €120 million that the government has decided to invest in digital solutions and cybersecurity in four years. e-services in Estonia must reduce the administrative burden for both citizens and businesses, and the Estonian economy can be boosted by making better use of digital technologies. And lastly, the most important thing Andres Herkel was talking about. The key to long-term economic development in Estonia is not cheap labour. The low-cost workforce is no longer a long-term, sustainable and responsible solution, not a mass immigration, but an increase in the volume of knowledge and the added value of our economy. To this end, it is important to improve the skills of workers to accompany technological developments. As a result, I am pleased that the 'Work and Learn' programme for people in employment started at the unemployment fund continues. At the same time, we have also increased R &amp; D investment from the state budget. Yes, we have still not reached the target of 1% of GDP, which, in my opinion, after the next elections, should become a matter of long-term agreement between political parties, as well as defence costs. So far, we have reformed the system of research funding, ensuring greater stability of funding for the research community and increasingly and more effectively supporting innovation in business. Next year, we will, among other things, open a new measure for the development of products by companies with a volume of EUR 5 million. In summary, the 2019 budget brings both wealth and caring and solidarity to society. As such, it is certainly acceptable to the Social Democrats. One feature of the budget is the undoubtedly goal that economic growth really reaches everyone, because every person in Estonia is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U89	On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U90	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! The 2019 draft budget, which was handed over by the Government to the Riigikogu today, aims to increase the well-being of Estonian people. I am pleased that for the second year in a row, the country has turned its face to a person. Our economy is growing, wages are rising, people have jobs and unemployment is low. Public finances have been well maintained and we will continue to implement a responsible and sustainable fiscal policy for growth. Here I am happy to emphasise once again the main points set out by the Prime Minister, and I also recall the past, this year. This year's budget was slightly above the 10 billionth limit of state revenue and expenditure. The budget for next year will be over EUR 11 billion. The government has submitted a state budget to the Riigikogu, which is structurally balanced. Estonia's tax burden remains stable and the debt burden will fall to 5.4% of GDP in 2022. Next year's budget follows four key priorities set out in the country's budget strategy: promoting economic growth in Estonia, increasing population numbers, strengthening security and improving the well-being and cohesion of society. I am pleased to say that, after almost two years in government, we can say that the costs and revenues of the state are starting to turn into the face of our coalition. By 'our face', I mean a clear direction towards improving the well-being of the Estonian people. The budget adopted last year was characterised by three keywords: reform of the tax-free minimum, increasing the income base of local governments and health care reform. A higher rate of income tax-free minimum leaves 64 euros more in the hands of the lowest and middle earners on each pay day. This is EUR 768 per year, which is certainly a considerable amount for many people. This year, independent local governments, which have been forgotten for years, were able to restore their strength. In 2018 the government increased its income tax share and the income from the fine-tuning fund, without adding specific tasks to the municipalities. In the area of health care, we have already made more money this year, which will improve access to health care and shorten treatment queues. In order to increase the coherence of our society and reduce inequalities, the 2019 state budget will primarily contribute to people, public services and regional development. Next year, we will increase the wage fund for employees from the state budget, continue to increase teachers' salaries, with teachers' average wage reaching 1500 euros, and the average salary for cultural workers will rise to 1280 euros. For example, the income of kindergarten teachers and social welfare specialists is also increasing. We cannot fail to mention the considerable increase in the salaries of the police and the rescuers. The average pension increase from EUR 447 to EUR 481 will ease the livelihood of the elderly. This is a marked increase in income, but an extraordinary increase in pensions must be done over the next few years. Right next year, we will continue to support the livelihood of pensioners living alone, with a budget of nearly 10 million. The welfare of families with children has always been one of the government's priorities in order to meet the objective of population growth. Support for the first and second children will increase from €55 to €60 in the new year. We will continue the health reform that started this year. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by 180 million euros. Targeting additional healthcare tools will help to shorten treatment queues and improve access to treatment services. No previous coalition has contributed more to strengthening security than the current Central Party, the Socialist and Fatherland power union. Defence costs are increasing to EUR 585 million, which is currently estimated at more than 2.1% of GDP. EUR 370 million will be earmarked for investments in the coming year. We invest in important transport and infrastructure, rural development and cultural and sporting activities. For example, Tehvandi's sports centre, 6.1 million, ERR's television complex, 2 million, fisheries sector, 11 million, promotion of agriculture and rural areas, 59.1 million, Rail Baltic, 31 million, Kose-Mäo section, four-way construction of 31.5 million and many other objects. The income base of local governments continues to grow. The reform of municipal funding has increased their revenues, which allows better and better quality services to be provided, with local interests in particular. We are moving in the direction that, instead of tagged money, municipalities can decide for themselves which areas to target funds in. The best way of knowing on the spot which services are most needed is to what level. The income of local governments will grow by about 5% next year, amounting to almost EUR 2.2 billion. The Ida-Virumaa programme will receive almost EUR 5 million for the coming year and EUR 800000 for the South East Estonia programme. According to the decisions of the state budget strategy, such funding will continue until 2022. This list could continue for a long time, but the most important thing is that, for the second year in a row, the budget serves the well-being of our people. It is the task of the state to serve its people, and the state budget must also take our people first and foremost into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U91	Martin Helme, please, on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U92	Dear Speaker! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start my speech with a few good words. Of course, it is good that wages are rising in internal security, education, culture. Of course it's good! At the same time, we all understand that this wage increase is also inevitable and inevitable, because Estonia has overall economic growth, but even more so as a result of the printing of money in the global world economy, inflation is also the highest inflation rate in Europe, which even requires wages to rise, and of course also in the state sector. But now to criticism. This is a pre-election populist budget, which, of course, is praised by the government and which follows the earlier model of the current left-wing government. It's playing Santa Claus. People take money out of one pocket, then spin it in a costly and inefficient public sector, and something else gets spilled into the other. In general, the only positive thing about the budget proposed by the government is that it will not be implemented. We are facing Riigikogu elections at the beginning of next year, and my dream is that the government will present a budget to the Riigikogu, about which it is proud to say: we brought you a smaller budget than last year, not a bigger one. Smaller! Collect less taxes, leave more money in the hands of people and businesses and let them decide for themselves how to use it! But you will not, of course, because we have a left-wing government that would like to have everything, spend most of it itself, and then give something back to people and say that we are Santa Claus. I sincerely hope that this way of thinking will change after next year's elections and that this budget, which we are either going to adopt here or not, will not be implemented anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U93	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Of course, we haven't seen this budget, and that's why we don't want to talk about the details for a long time. However, we have seen that a party leader's troika appears on the screen, says that I wanted to ease one tax, he wanted to ease the other tax, and he wanted a third one, but we decided to compromise that we would do nothing, we would increase the costs instead. And besides, we have now heard that the government is allocating money. Indeed, this is a sudden decision, after all, no other government has ever done such a thing. What we have seen and what is very different from what the governments have seen is that they have come to power and are governed by a lie. After all, it was said that we need to break the stagnation and that we need to break the budget rules, put the budget down and revive the economy. 'Are you satisfied with economic growth? ' asked Sven Sester. 'I'm not satisfied! ' What we received as a result of this destruction and deficit was exactly the same'stop' as the average of the last decade: an economic growth of 3.5% this year. This is exactly the same economic growth as that'stopping' in 2016. Exactly the same growth, but the difference is that there are now budgetary imbalances, expectations and obligations that should not be there, and inflation is 4%. I'm not saying it's all about this budget, but basically, it's nothing but lying. And lying has also been the way the Prime Minister and other ministers, for example his replacement last week, have been communicating with the Riigikogu: they have simply bubbled, talked about the subject, without going into any discussion at all. What is funny is that now, when we are talking about a structural balance, which should actually be the surplus as compensation, the forecast actually shows a decline in economic growth. It's a good time, but the economy's getting cold, and now it's time to get out of the way. Yeah, it does, because there's an extra cost, but what was that last story? Where is the continuity where there is an understanding of how finance and the economy work? That's the embarrassment of it. If we look at the costs that have been criticised here in censures and so on, the answers have been: you did not, but the locals did! We have not heard any ministers here explaining analytical, cost-benefit and overall costs. And that is extremely frustrating, because I would actually like Parliament to be honest with and show what the analyses are, which are the reasons why something has been done. It has been said that there is now a tax truce, but we all know what kind of unrest the government caused in the beginning. First the tax cluster, then the taxes run out. Anyway, it's a fool to talk about tax truce when you've threatened ten taxes, five done and then said, "Ah, we didn't do anything more, let it stay." This is not a tax truce. Clearly, mistakes in the current situation still require correction. I admit that the mistakes of the Sester era in the previous government were also exhilarating in the field of excise duties. Then the decision should have been made to stop these excise increases, not to turn them over. But it's turned on. It's not like we're gonna kill half as much as half as we're gonna drink. This is not the answer to which one could say there is a tax truce. Corrections should be honest. And now you have to reverse the excise, which is allowed. Where's the promise? Show me! Now what is said about debt is another scam: we pay back loans. Think of what an achievement! We're serving loans! In fact, the tax schedules are valid. The fact that there is no more debt is reasonable in itself, because this government does not have any good ideas. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U95	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U96	But don't tell me you're gonna pay back your debts in an extraordinary way! No, you don't pay anything back extraordinarily, and you don't collect reserves. That's a problem. Today, the economy has been in such a good time that more is needed than anything else in God's service of debt. That means putting aside, too, because bad times are coming. And if you don't even set aside the potential for arguing about the productivity of these funds, the fact is that it hasn't been worth spending enough to go into the structural and nominal minus, as this year's budget was. And as far as debts are concerned, your debt is that you have created a deficit. You should compensate for this with the surplus, not admit that there is now a structural minus. We all also know that there is a huge discrepancy between the European Commission's position and that our budget has been moved, if I may say so, from the level of the best countries to the level of the poorest countries. And this is despite the fact that we do not have debts from old times, where most other countries are struggling. And then there's a bunch of details here, like half-sisters. Again, it was said that the municipal income base is being restored, but this amount has been given with functions. What are we bragging about? Let's go around saying we're restoring the municipal income base. What have we restored? We gave it up first, and now we're giving it back with responsibilities. It's not fair, forget it! I am not opposed to most of these restorations, in some cases I have been in education, because this ultimately makes the service worse, but do not present it as an increase in the revenue base. Also, do not boast that you will increase the revenue of local governments by 5%! I'm sorry! Where's the money? This is a receipt, not a financial allocation in the Prime Minister's speech was so. As far as regional policy is concerned, I have been quoted from a hollow text written by the Prime Minister, which appeared in the paper and did not have any constructive ideas, but it was said that 5 million were taken to Ida-Viru County. To be honest, the last decisions of the previous government were to allocate several tens of million to Ida-Virumaa. This aid package was, I don't remember, 70 million or something, and it was really the kind of thing to highlight. But 5 million can be left out of their texts in the future, otherwise some might resent. Which doesn't mean that the $5 million was spent too much. Still, every Prime Minister, even Jüri Ratas, would like such a structural message: we made the use of money more precise in the budget, we made the budget more productive in relation to society, some added value more creative, not just shared, and we put our emphasis on wisdom. Research and development, where is it, optimists? In conclusion, however, in the big picture we expect a structural surplus from this budget, which would be at least as high as the previous minus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U97	On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U98	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! I would like to confirm immediately, on behalf of the party in Isamaa, that this is not the wrong budget, nor is it the populist budget before the election, but is indeed a budget that is affordable and responsible for the Estonian state. First, a couple of lines on the balance of the budget. Indeed, the budget is in structural balance. Perhaps you'll remember our situation a few years ago when we wrestled with a massive deficit. The coalition's objective has now been achieved very quickly. It is a budget that grows with the economy and supports economic growth and the welfare of the Estonian people. And this endless dispute, which is more of a financial fundamentalist dispute, is that, now that interest is low, should take credit and invest heavily, because inflation also eats reserves, or vice versa, should collect reserves, according to the Chairman of the Fiscal Council, is a completely pointless dispute. Both positions are, in fact, correct in his opinion; the question is political choices. And contrasting that one is right and the other is wrong is not, in the opinion of the Chairman of the Fiscal Council, a topical and sensible question at all at this time. But with regard to next year's budget, the good news is that no new taxes will be introduced for both entrepreneurs and the people of Estonia. No tax increases will be made; the overall tax burden will remain the same in the coming years. The state's debt burden will decrease as a result of all these developments. In conjunction with the 2019 state budget, it is also proposed to reverse the increases in alcohol duty previously regularised in 2019 and 2020. Yes, it was also said: the party in Isamaa would have wanted major changes in excise policy. We would have gone down the road to reducing excise duties, but that is the current coalition agreement, and it will certainly be possible for the next coalition to make changes in budgetary policy after the elections, in accordance with the mandate received. Security is an important keyword for next year's budget, in the broadest sense: internal security and defence in the broadest sense. Salaries and funding for all internal security staff will increase. National defence expenditure accounts for 2.2% of gross domestic product and is higher than ever before. These amounts will strengthen the Defence League, which is an extremely important, voluntary national defence organisation. We finance the costs of accepting the allies, and the Estonian state must reach a situation where we are able to accept all the people who should be invited to military service, actually, to create normal conditions for them, which we have not yet fully achieved. We will also continue the defence investment programme. It has been agreed in three years, which is why we will make additional defence investments. The field of defence is not only important from a strictly national defence point of view. It also has a very important significance for the development of integration and the promotion of defence and patriotism. So this is a very broad area of meaning. The capacity of local authorities should increase. There has been talk of an increase in revenue of 5%, which is true. It is also true, however, that the local authorities' revenue base will be increased as a percentage, which is a constant source of increased municipal funding. And it's a political decision. A number of regional policy programmes are supported, both the Ida-Viru programme and the South-East-Estonia programme continue as well as other regional programmes. Their funding in next year's budget will also increase. I would like to stress that, as a new initiative, the proposal of the Isamaa with the support of the 2019 budget has been designed to establish an Estonian family foundation aimed at ensuring the survival and development of the Estonian people, protecting family values, addressing demographic problems and financing studies, as well as monitoring and supporting developments related to migration policy. This is an important area, that is, one of the most important areas for the development of our country and our people. There has been a great deal of talk here about improving access to medical care. An increase of EUR 180 million in the funding of the Health Insurance Fund will certainly contribute to improving access to healthcare and to improving people's health. A separate topic is family allowances and child allowances, which has always been an extremely important topic for Fatherland. Next year, the amount of children's benefits will increase by EUR 15 million. The first and second children's allowance will be EUR 60. From the third child of the family, it was proposed by the Fatherland that family benefits would increase considerably, and this year it has already been legalised. This policy will continue next year. Education and culture funding is increasing and in this context the salaries of cultural workers and teachers are increasing, which is also extremely important. The 2019 budget is geared towards development, the future. The investments foreseen in next year's budget have, in my opinion, been very balancedly distributed between the various areas. They allow the co-financing of projects that we implement with European Union money. We must use this money sensibly and as effectively as possible by the end of this period. There are various infrastructure projects, cultural and sporting objects and investments in other areas. Finally, I would like to thank all the coalition partners, the Social Democrats and the Centre Party, for preparing this budget. I hope that we will see good cooperation between the coalition and the opposition in the budgetary procedure in the Chamber of Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U99	The President also thanks both the Prime Minister and the representatives of all the political groups for this debate. It has ended today, but the procedure for next year's state budget in the Riigikogu is only beginning. Those were stories about tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U100	Now, in a sense, we are going back to yesterday and we are going to continue reading the first 683 of the draft law that was not completed yesterday. I would like to remind you that this is a draft law on the amendment of the law on gender equality initiated by the Government of the Republic and in connection with the amendment of other laws. We were just in the middle of where the negotiations started. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first warm is over because the heated debate was yesterday, and in the course of this debate, emotions were certainly fresher. But I will come back to this bill and the solutions to the problem we are proposing. First, we should start with whether we have a problem that needs to be resolved. I think that no one here has any doubts or disputes, yes, the problem is, both statistically and essentially. Statistically, the wage gap in Estonia is indeed one of the largest in the European Union. In essence, we also know that there are examples where the same work does not pay the same salary. If we now start solving this problem, we should look first and foremost at whether the solution to this problem is a legislative amendment or a change of practice. When it comes to the pay gap, the biggest problem in Estonia is definitely that we have a lot of unexplained pay gap. The unexplained pay gap is clearly more than the explained pay gap. Usually, in such cases, when the unexplained pay gap is large, it must be said, above all, that the problem is people's attitudes to whether people who make decisions on which to pay are aware that it is reasonable to pay equal pay for equal work. I don't think there's anyone in this room who would argue that equal pay for equal work must be paid. Surely we all also have an understanding that employment relationships are personal, personal relationships, especially in the private sector. In the public sector, too, there is more and more, and the times when we had a clear set of grades are quite over. It is no longer the case that if you want to go somewhere in the ministry to be a chief specialist, you will be told that the salary is just like that per gram and that nothing else can be. People's contributions need to be assessed and people's contributions vary. This difference is certainly even greater in the private sector, as the nature of the works is so different. That is why our first understanding here in dealing with the pay gap should be that the world is actually much more varied than we will ever be able to regulate in law. And I'm going to move on to a smart government to see if the current law can improve the situation or not before writing a new bill. We also heard from this Minister's report that today's law doesn't work. I dare say here that it is therefore possible to make today's law work better, so it is possible to change practice, so it is possible to educate and inform people so much that the situation on the pay gap will improve. Of course, the country can set a perfectly clear example here. Now, in more detail, come to this bill, what do we see? We see the Labour Inspectorate has a plan to hire six people. We can see that its impact has been estimated at around half a million euros, but this is the top of the iceberg. Actually, there's a lot of administrative burdens back there. In fact, there is the government's desire to extend exactly the same mechanism to the private sector. In fact, there is back there, which was also discussed here... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U102	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U103	... one study that will not be completed before this law enters into force. This, I think, is very incomprehensible: why is a study commissioned, but before we know the results of the study, the law is still being passed? Let's do it. There's something we can do. We've entered into a coalition agreement that we're giving the Labour Inspectorate six more employees. Well, you don't have to do that. What also disturbs me is that, on such an important subject, a wise government should actually consider whether or not a law is needed. On this subject, the intention to develop was left out at all. The intention to develop is necessary to find out if we have a problem, if there is a problem, what possible solutions are and whether the only possible way out is to change the law. It wasn't done. So we are in this Chamber in a situation where we have to say that the administrative burden is increasing, but it is not clear whether today's law is really inapplicable or whether it is simply a question of will and people. Similarly, there is the question of the use of IT systems. The employees' register is available to the tax administration and it is clear who gets paid anywhere, but there is still a need to create a new IT solution. What bothered me even the most about yesterday's debate was the message that everyone should be paid equally. Those were 30 years ago when the exact same salary was demanded for everyone. The people's contributions and the results are different. This is an employer's assessment of the person's contribution and result, and according to this the employer also determines salary or salary. So that's the confusing circumstances about this bill that bothers us. The Reform Party Group does not propose to reject this draft at first reading, but we sincerely hope that the Government of the Republic will listen seriously. The most sensible thing would be to wait for this horrific analysis to be completed, or to actually see if this awfully expensive analysis is needed. And the government could at least have enough sense and will to listen to those who have not sung a great eulogy to this bill, including some women's organisations. We in this Chamber, by pressing either for or against the button at third reading, are ultimately responsible for doing the right thing, that the law will make Estonia's life better. I believe that a very large part of the solutions proposed in the draft could also be achieved through better implementation of the current law. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U104	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U105	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U106	Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U107	Ladies and gentlemen, Gender equality is one of the fundamental principles of our society: women and men have equal rights, obligations and opportunities. In Estonia, women received electoral rights as early as 1917, in France only in 1944. There are, of course, individual problems, but we are moving in an undeniable positive direction. This situation can only be reversed by mass immigration from Islamic countries, where women are considered inferior to men. In the government, issues of equal treatment are given to the Socialist Minister for Health and Labour. It is no wonder that the Soviets have implemented gender equality, the pay gap and the introduction of gender quotas in front of their propaganda cart, claiming that discrimination against women in Estonia would cross any line. The draft amendment to the Gender Equality Act, which establishes a competence centre for gender equality and a wage register at the Labour Inspectorate's office, has now come up. Many, including the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations, have opposed this pointless, bureaucratic and annual plan to absorb hundreds of thousands of euros. They consider the draft to be based on the erroneous assumption that the gender pay gap is due to the payment of a different salary to women and men for the same or equivalent work. Even if the remuneration of men and women in the same position is not equal, this does not automatically mean that there is unequal treatment. In addition, the creation of a new database and unit is a duplication of activities and a waste of money, because already both employers and Statistics Estonia have all the necessary data. It is stressed that the approach chosen does not allow the problem to be solved, as the pay gap is not due to gender discrimination. Yes, according to Statistics Estonia, there is a wage difference of 20.9% between women and men, but we need to understand what is being said. There is a big difference between whether we are talking about the average difference in wages or the lower pay paid to women for the same work, which is, of course, unacceptable. These two things, however, are put in a pot when talking about a pay gap. That is why, according to a survey by Turku Research AS, 34% of respondents thought that women in Estonia were paid much less for the same work than men. In fact, only 2.6% of women and 1.2% of men have been in a situation where they were paid less than the opposite sex for the same work. According to Statistics Estonia, the pay gap between men and women doing the same job is lower than the European Union average. And the difference is not due to the reaction of Estonians, but to the higher employment of women in low-paid areas, such as service, trade, social affairs, etc. We have developed the work of men and women, whether for historical reasons (e.g. nurses and educators) or for jobs requiring strength (e.g. miners). Any coercion or the introduction of quotas will not help here. One of the reasons for the pay gap is parental leave. Since holidays are mainly for women, they do 18% less paid work a day than men. Giving up children for the purpose of making statistics more beautiful would be abnormal. However, the number of paternity leave has increased every year and the difference therefore becomes smaller. Deloitte XO Survey 2014 showed that among executives in Estonia, the gender pay gap from Central European countries is the lowest of 3.8% against Germany's 16%. It was noted that there are no gender quotas in Estonia and that quotas are rather an obstacle in terms of equal treatment. It is true that women agree to work for less than men. For example, in insurance and finance, there is a greater pay gap. At the same time, there are a number of specialties in which women are paid more than men. For example, women leaders in the advertising and public relations area earn almost 25% more than men, women leaders in the catering industry 20% more, female bus drivers and tram drivers 12% more, literary, concert, music, theatre, sports and advertising agents 8% more, etc. But maybe women are better at these jobs. The Sox offer wage disclosure to eliminate their own pompous problem. In other parts of the world, it has brought new problems instead of benefits. People are not equal: some do more and faster than others, but there is no point in trying to the right, because their wages are not raised in fear of the snitches. This would discriminate against better workers, both women and men. 68% of Estonians do not want to disclose wages. People prefer inequality instead of equality, stated Yale University's 2017 survey. They do not agree with formal equality when they see that people doing good work do not get the reward they deserve and the pigs' skin carryers are paid over. This is natural, contrary to the left's attempts to force a society of failed equality in history. The infinite debate about the gender pay gap and the ugly 'Till and dillita' campaigns are an example of a blunt entanglement in extreme-feminist and Marxist categorisation, where men are bloodsuckers and women are poor oppressed. Instead, we have to talk about wages as such, because not only women but also men's wages are too low in Estonia. It must be said that overall income inequality and relative poverty have increased and these figures are among the highest in the European Union. Also, one fifth of our people live in poverty and tens of thousands of children receive hot meals only in schools. It must also be said that the number and life expectancy of our healthy lives are indicators that are the lowest in the European Union and that we are one of the poorest countries in the euro zone. Why aren't the drafters interested in these problems? Why has the Fatherland and the Centre Party gone along with this soccer replacement in government? Why does the Reform Party disapprove of this, but go along the same way? All the more so since, in breach of the law, the draft has not even been bothered to draw up a draft plan for development. In this context and supporting all critics, including the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you. [[???Tõstab klaasi, joob vett ja ütleb: 'Terviseks!'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U108	That's a life to drink, Henn. There are no more requests for negotiation. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 683, but as we have just heard, the ECRE Group has proposed to reject this draft at first reading. This leads to a vote. But now Martin Helme, who definitely has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U109	Thank you. That's right. I would like to take a three-minute break so that the other groups can shape their voting position.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U110	Three minutes break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U111	Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the draft proposal of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to not finish the first reading of 683. Please take a stand and vote. There were 14 votes in favour and 43 against, with no abstentions. The hall was against the proposal. I will set the deadline of 10 October at 5 p.m. for the submission of draft 683 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U112	First reading of the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws Act 660. Minister of the Environment Siim Kisler, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft Environmental Charges Act prepared by the Ministry of the Environment and related amendments to other laws. The aim of the draft is to make investment in environmental taxes more effective in environmental projects. For years, the amount of environmental charges directed through the Environmental Investment Centre to support environmental projects has decreased, firstly, and secondly, the financing of the administration of the Ministry of the Environment has also been included. As a result, a solution has been needed in order to ensure that the amount invested in environmental projects is planned in advance in the long term and reliably, as well as that projects under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment do not impose a burden on the activities of the Environmental Investment Centre if these projects are of a nature with state budget funding. At present, environmental charges are collected in the state budget and the foundation KIK, i.e. the Environmental Investment Centre, was determined from there. An amendment to the Environmental Charges Act would restructure the movement of this money. In the future, the part of the funds received by the state budget in the form of environmental charges would be allocated to the Ministry of the Environment, as determined by the state budget for the relevant year. The Ministry of the Environment is responsible for organising the targeted use of this money, including directing the part of the funding of environmental projects to the KIC. The amendment is necessary because setting the amount of funding at the rates applicable since 2009 is now unjustified and rather restrictive. The volume of funding cannot be planned or increased in a flexible way for larger-scale projects. The volume should be based on the priority axis for environmental projects in the coming years and on what funding these projects would need from the state. Public investment in the environment is intended to maintain at least the current volume. According to the legislative amendment, the amounts earmarked for environmental protection would no longer depend on the receipt of environmental charges or on the rates of charges, but the use of this money would be shaped by a view for a period of four years during the preparation of the national budget strategy. In addition, funding planning through the Ministry of the Environment would end up in a situation where the Ministry of the Environment and its administrative authorities themselves request funds from KIK to cover the costs of their main activities. The main activities would also be financed directly from the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. As a result of the entry into force of the draft law, transparency of administrative funding will be increased and the workload will be reduced. I therefore ask for support for this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U114	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U115	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister of the Environment! On 12 September, at the time of the first reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act 645, our colleague Krista Aru asked for years with regard to the environmental charging system in place, whether a regional aspect had been taken into account in the drafting of the bill. At the time, you replied that this was not an issue in the context of the 645 SE and that it would be more appropriate to discuss this issue within the framework of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act on today's agenda 660. How much has been taken into account, then, in the preparation of the draft, with a regional aspect, in particular in view of the possibility of allocating more of the money received in the form of environmental charges to the state budget in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U116	Thank you. Indeed, there are currently two draft amendments to the Environmental Charges Act in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. One concerns the collection of environmental charges: how the use of oil shale should be remunerated, mining, and the nature of the resource charge. The second, in other words, this draft 660, concerns the distribution of money from these charges. Perhaps this bill is the place to discuss how and to whom money should be distributed. The draft submitted by the Government refers to one paragraph here: the part that is received by the Ministry of the Environment and its sub-offices from which a large part of the money is taken out through written projects. This system has been criticised for years. The National Audit Office also carried out a thorough audit in 2008, which states that such a system does not comply with the principles of transparency and clarity. The Special Committee on State Budget Control of the Riigikogu discussed this issue in its own s. a at the meeting on 2 April, where they asked what had changed as a result of the audit carried out by the National Audit Office in 2008, i.e. 10 years ago. Within ten years, nothing had changed, and the Commission decided to bring up the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act once it reached the Riigikogu. Our proposal concerns how the current share of the Environmental Investment Centre will be received through the Ministry of the Environment in the future. This does not concern the part received by local authorities, its distribution, size or anything like that. The answer that you referred to, which I gave to Krista Aru's question, meant that if the members of the Riigikogu raise the subject of what should be the part of the bill received by local governments and wish to propose amendments to it, the context of this draft would be more appropriate, as this draft does indeed refer to the receipt. But the draft proposed by the government does not change this part of the section, the sections that lay down the part received by the municipalities. In addition, I will say one more thing. I have deliberately followed the success of the projects in the Ida-Viru region and their decisions. I was assured that, for example, in the last call for proposals, all the projects submitted by Ida-Viru received funding. For several measures, Ida-Viru has a preferential coefficient, so-called award points. When it comes to channeling money for environmental projects to Ida-Viru County, it is as I said: who has applied for money through KIC has received it. Rather, the question is that there could be more requests from Ida-Viru. The question is not that there are a lot of applications from Ida-Virumaa that are constantly losing money, but the question is that Ida-Virumaa does not receive as many applications as I think they might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U117	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In principle, the restructuring of the funds provided for in this bill is understandable and will probably also comply with the precept made by the National Audit Office and other supervisory authorities. However, my question concerns the concerns of local authorities. In the meantime, part of this money was still distributed through the Environmental Investment Centre outside the Ministry. Now that part of the amount received is concentrated in the Ministry, does this distribution not become too politicised and too central because the influence and impartiality of the Environmental Investment Centre disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U119	I can talk about this period when I've been the Minister of the Environment and also the Chairman of the KIC Council and I've seen what it looks like in the reality of life. In reality, it has looked like that, in the past, even joint rounds of applications were run by the Ministry and its sub-offices and from outside, so-called free market. And amazingly, the applications submitted by the agencies and the Ministry themselves always received funding. They had very good projects, which were always confirmed. This system worked this way, creating confusion in other applicants, and questions with whom they compete, whether they are going to compete with a country that provides support for the same money. What have we done while I have also worked as Chairman of the Council? We have divided the money, we have a separate application round for public projects. The decision will allocate this money to public projects. It is just that the Ministry of the Environment's own projects are so well done, let's put it this way, that the reality is this: it has not been the case if the Ministry's own requests were not told. This mechanism for evaluating applications has been designed in such a way that the Ministry has a very large role to play. The representatives of the Ministry are those who come to the KIC Council meeting and say that we recommend supporting these projects and recommend not supporting these projects. In essence, this environmental programme is currently under the influence of ministerial officials, I dare say, in the sense that they are proposing. It is true that there have been cases where the Council has reviewed, rejected or decided otherwise than proposed. But I can tell you that at the moment, this decision-making process is still very much related to ministerial officials. At least it's a proposal to draw them up, let's say politely that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U120	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U121	Good manager! Good waitress, you're both the minister and the chairman of the council at KIK. Explain how much of this KIK money will actually be bitten out with the current bill so that you can solve the Ministry's duties directly without having to write the KIK projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U122	Thank you. I would stress that this issue is certainly not central to today's Minister for the Environment, but also concerns future environmental ministers, whoever will be in this position in the future. It is very difficult to point out a stable percentage of how this has been so far, because the entire KIC environmental programme has been receiving money in very different ways over the years. This depends, for example, on how many minerals are extracted. This also depends on how the legislator has changed the rates of charges. If you look at this bill, you will see that we have a very complex system of how the fees charged on mineral resources are different. In my opinion, the problem with today's system is that it is actually unpredictable. We will have an overview of how much money has been received at the KIC Council meeting. So it's hard to make predictions about that. I have the KIC numbers in front of me: 2015.32904000, 2016.31166000, 2017.29807000. This number's fluctuating. It is true that the rates have been changed by the Riigikogu in 2016 and 2017. After all, all these decisions actually affect. Why am I here with the proposal to fix this amount in the state budget? This is precisely why, if the Riigikogu adopts the state budget and says that the amount that goes into the environmental programme of KIC is, for example, 10 million, 12 million or 15 million, then this would be the amount determined in the budget. Today we actually have uncertainty. On the one hand, it is indeterminate how much money will be received from the KIC environmental programme at all, and on the other hand, it is indeterminate how much will come from the Ministry of the programme and its sub-offices. This too has fluctuated over the years: a few years less, a few years more. Kalle Palling smiles, even laughs, but unfortunately it has been. It's all been very different over the years. According to this draft, this would be a state budget decision: a fixed amount, part of which would be the amount of the Ministry and part of the environmental programme. But you can't make that decision right now. If we were to deal with this bill in parallel with the state budget, we could put it in place. The share received by public authorities, as I said, has fluctuated a lot over the years, but it has been in the order of 12, 13 or 14 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U123	Krista Aru, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Is there a risk that our oldest and most solid environmental awareness magazines, Estonian Nature and Estonian Mets, will be left without support by changing and reorganizing the financing scheme of the Environmental Investment Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U125	The restructuring proposed by the draft does not change anything in this respect, but the Estonian Nature and Estonian Forest magazines are another problem. In particular, an analysis was commissioned which revealed that their support had to be reviewed so far. The reason is that the existing support mechanism qualifies as State aid. This type of activity must be supported through public procurement and these documents are currently being prepared by the Ministry in cooperation with the KIC.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U126	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U127	Good manager! Good Minister, thank you for your long answer, but you did a bit of a spin. I understand that the KIC portfolio will be half as much on these projects as the money that will be distributed. Let's say it was 29 in one year and 32 million in the other. If you bite down 13 to 14 million from there, is it true that KIK's money, other than the Ministry's environmental program, will be halved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U128	Thank you. That depends on how much money comes in. It's difficult to compare, because we don't even know how much KIK's money is coming in this year. Today, this system is similar to the system of gambling tax, which many members of the Riigikogu well imagined to receive, much is coming, and it is very difficult to say how much. When we untie it, the Riigikogu decides that so much of the budget goes to the environmental field and so much to the environmental programme. The order of magnitude we are talking about is, yes, between 40 and 50%, but the question is that it is very deceptive. Today it seems that we are doing very well and are funding an environmental programme. The Riigikogu looks at the forecasts and also takes budgetary decisions in this good knowledge that we are doing well. We finance projects outside the Ministry, depending on the year, for 27 million, 29 million or 32 million, but in fact, 40-50% of this money will be taken to finance the ministry sector. This has been inevitable and has been the case for years. As I said, the National Audit Office drew attention to this problem ten years ago. It's like cheating on yourself. We can continue with the same system and keep telling ourselves that we're doing well, but we'll give it a lot of money. But I think it would be much better if the Riigikogu also saw this real, honest figure of how much goes outside the Ministry to fund projects. It would make everyone much clearer. In addition, the major drawback of today's system is that a ministry sub-office, such as the Environment Agency or the Environmental Board, writes projects. Officials are working on it, writing KIC projects. These projects will be evaluated in the KIC, the Agency's officials will write a report after the KIC checks the implementation of the project's activities. This is all unnecessary bureaucracy that does not take place in this form in other ministries. It's been like this for years. I'm bringing here to compare how the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, for example, works with its partner, the foundation. The budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is part of the state budget and part of it is intended to finance EAS activities. To this end, an administrative contract will be concluded and the EAS will carry out these activities. There is no such thing that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is going to return the so-called money from EAS itself. All in all, the answer is that everything seems like awfully nice, we share so much money for environmental projects, but actually we're cheating on ourselves today. I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U129	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U130	Thank you. A good waitress, in answer to my first question, you said that the main problem is the lack of applications coming from Ida-Virumaa to the Environmental Investment Centre. In view of the situation that Ida-Virumaa industrial enterprises are the main funders of the KIC environmental programme, and also in view of Ida-Virumaa's natural heritage, the extensive environmental impact of the oil shale sector on the region as a whole, is it intended to create a special measure for Ida-Virumaa in KIC?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U131	Yeah, we've been over this. I have to admit, I do not recall the name of this measure right now, but I can send it to you. At my request, there has been at least one measure in the previous application round in the KIC environmental programme, which is purely for Ida-Virumaa. The question is that when we talk in the context of municipalities, the Environmental Investment Centre still supports environmental projects. The interest of municipalities is often to carry out other activities that do not directly qualify as environmental projects, i.e. in the field of KIC, but which can often be considered as mitigating the effects of production, mining and industry in Ida-Virumaa. Directly, literally, they do not go under the environmental domain. Rather, it has been a question of these activities. The answer is yes then: we have considered, we have given additional points, if the application comes from Ida-Viru County, we have even targeted measures towards Ida-Viru. If there are proposals for more precise formulation of any areas where Ida-Virumaa activities should be financed, they are welcome. I think I can speak here on behalf of the KIC Council, who will confirm this distribution of money. The Ministry will propose and the KIC Board will then approve this distribution of funds. By the way, four of the nine members of the KIK Board are members of the Riigikogu appointed by the Riigikogu. They're from four groups. I dare speak on behalf of the other members of the Council. If there is a good proposal which area or activity could be further supported in Ida-Viru County, then I think the KIC Council is open to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U132	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U133	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Within the framework of this draft, you have already touched very much on the possible development scenario of KIC in your responses. Have you analysed it in more detail? When I got ready for Question Time last week, it turned out there were management issues. I also looked at the development plans, and in these years, the 18th year is already running, after all, the circa is 1.5 billion euros in grants, divided into investments. Have you even started a long-term discussion of the KIK in the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U134	We've been through this. Where's the money coming from? After all, this large number comes mainly from structural support. We talk a great deal about this environmental programme, the receipts within Estonia, but this is a very small part of the KIC budget. I brought 29 million here for comparison last year, and if we compare it with the number you mentioned, this is actually a very small part. Of course, it is of great national interest, but it is a very small percentage of the total field of activity of the KIC. We will also see KIC as an implementing unit for the next period of structural support or euro money. The management issues you referred to really do exist. Or let us say that at least internal disagreements on governance have now emerged and we will discuss it further in the Council. Thank God, so far, no major problems have emerged. In general, KIK has been relatively normal in terms of disbursements and supervision compared to other implementing entities. One of the differences referred to by this letter, which has become public in the press, is precisely the internal work of preparing the next development plan for KIC, which the President has wanted to bring before the Council. When you read this letter, you will see that a great deal is being said about how the process has been and the dissatisfaction involved. One side is how the Ministry sees the case, and the other side is how the KIK Board proposes this development plan and how the Council endorses it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U135	Thank you very much to the Minister. No further questions for you right now. The presentation of the commission is made by Kalle Palling, Vice-Chairman of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act and related other laws 660 discussion before the first reading was held in the Committee on the Environment on Monday, 17 September. As the Minister said nicely in his presentation here, this is a draft that has already reached the procedure of the second Riigikogu, which amends the Environmental Charges Act. This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 June, and the main content was already written by the Minister here, I will not repeat it again. However, I will give you a brief overview of what was discussed and focused on in the meeting of this Committee on the Environment. The topics were so-called largely structured in rehearsals three. Firstly, if such a change is made now, what will happen to the Environmental Investment Centre at all. As we know, the Environmental Investment Centre administers a large amount of European Union funds, which are invested in local and national projects. In the same way, it manages this money from environmental charges, which is the subject of the debate on this draft. The amounts earmarked for national activities should no longer go to the KIC in order to then organise a separate call for proposals. In this way, this part of the bureaucracy could be avoided, which in itself is a very sensible proposal. However, the Members of the Commission expressed concern as to whether this money would remain in the environmental sphere or move away from it in the long term. The Minister confirmed that, at least in the 2019 budget, this money will certainly remain in the environmental field. What happens next is clear from the following political agreements, including the Coalition Agreement, and, of course, from the personality of the Minister for the Environment, who is currently in office, and how strongly he can stand up for the environment. I think this has been the case in the past, so this principle is not news. I've already described the other problem. That's what money gets for the environment. And the third topic, which started the discussion, was not the end of the discussion, because the people of the Ministry of the Environment promised to send specific data, was which projects the money was spent on, rather than spent on, but where the money was placed. We have no doubt that this information will arrive before the second reading of the Committee on the Environment. However, one of the main points came out of the debate that was in this Chamber today. The main concern is the motivation of local authorities to allow activities that should in the future be subject to environmental charges, whether mining or other environmentally-intensive, environmentally burdensome activities, which are taxed accordingly. I think this is an issue that the Commission must also deal with between first and second readings. It is probably possible for both the political groups and all representatives of the sector, as well as local authorities, to table amendments. When we talk about oil shale processing and creating more added value, we need investments, new production units. However, in order for these production facilities to develop and invest in them, it is also necessary to have municipalities at the table so that they have motivation. The revenue currently received by KIK should actually return some part of the local government's budget. This is one of the concerns that this draft does not currently address, but it is probably possible to clarify this in the course of the work. In conclusion, it was decided to propose the completion of the first reading of draft 660 (i.e. a consensual decision) and to propose that the deadline for amendments to the draft be set at 4 p.m. on 10 October (i.e. a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U137	There are questions for the waitress. Aivar Surva.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns local authorities in particular. The mining right fee was known to have been paid to 100% of the local governments' budgets in their time. It's been reduced in time. One such magical year was 2009 when it was agreed on the amount to be received by the municipalities. The previous amendment, which we had before us, raised the ceiling for the payment of this right up to EUR 10. The municipality's share is 2.75%. I dare say that all of this problem, all of which is related to mining, processing and resource use, has not disappeared, it is still there. My question is, what has been the debate on this issue, so that not only the municipalities, but also the regions as a whole, can get back to some of the amount that will be taken from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U139	Thank you. At previous meetings both in Ida-Virumaa and during this draft procedure, several local government leaders, several people, have wondered whether a mechanism would be created where local government would have an incentive. I think it's wise to create it. In the course of this bill? This is what we can look at between the first and second readings when the corresponding amendments are tabled. The Minister himself said that perhaps many local authorities simply do not perceive that this money will still return from KIC in the opposite direction. It may not always be a question of a specific percentage. You yourself, as the former head of self-government in your region, are well aware that it is not always the enormous amount of compensation for your municipality's budget within this particular municipality that is perhaps the most important. In fact, we should talk about the region as a whole, i.e. Ida-Viru County. We should be thinking precisely that perhaps this refund is not as important as the development of a longer vision that goes on. When we are talking about the exit of oil shale energy, it is absolutely an issue that is being debated in society. This requires investment, whether in retraining or in another sector. I think that this is a bigger and more important topic for discussion than the specific percentage or amount of oil shale tonnes or ash to be extracted. Although I admit that the latter is also very often important, because even now the motivation on these issues is extremely small.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U140	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U141	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you a similar question to that of the Minister. Have you discussed the future of KIC within the framework of this bill? I have seen that eight out of the nine members of the Council are party politicians, and four of them are members of the Committee on the Environment, which is a very large proportion. It is likely that your priority will also be to participate in the discussions, as there are so many political parties involved in the future of this institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U142	Thank you. That was one question we discussed. I specifically asked the Commission what would happen next. The Minister replied and a debate was also held in the Commission. Indeed, the previous government, as well as the current government, has already had an idea paper on the table, a concept of creating an implementing unit for the disbursement and administration of these grants. We've got quite a few of them. I'm not gonna give you the exact number just in case, but there's over ten of them. It has been discussed that perhaps these activities could be grouped together in a single institution. But if we think that KIK is a competence centre in the field of environment, would it fit directly into EAS or Innove, for example? It is probably possible to do all of this, but whether it is worth doing after doing is rather a question of this. I think that the administration of European money is a simple issue. What is more complicated is what goes on from the same charges that are collected: how much KIK gets, how much goes back to the state budget, how much goes back to the local government. Once we get this picture clear, it will also be possible to discuss the future of the KIC again. The Minister of the Environment, who is also Chairman of the KIC Board, has consistently believed that he does not see that KIC can be lost or put together with another body. In this sense, the Minister of the Environment stands for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U143	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no more questions. I will open negotiations to the political groups if that is what you want. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 660. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 10 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U144	First reading of the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 676. Minister of the Environment Siim Kisler, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U145	Honourable manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I take advantage of the opportunity to comment a little on the debate on the previous point. First of all, the list of major projects, the information about which projects have been funded on the basis of applications from the sub-offices of the Ministry of the Environment and what these areas have been, has been communicated to the members of the Committee on the Environment. If other members of the Riigikogu wish to be familiar with it as well, let us know that we are happy to share this information with others. Secondly, there was the question of the second draft amendment to the Environmental Charges Act. The earlier draft really states that the maximum rate for the oil shale mining fee would be EUR 10, but a percentage cannot be calculated automatically from there. It may be 2,75% in extreme cases, for this EUR 10, but it can also be 100% if the ladder is set in this way and this fee is minimal. So it can fluctuate according to the world market prices for oil, and this percentage cannot be calculated in this way; it can fluctuate in a very large range. But now to the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act, which aims to create a new national park in Estonia, Alutaguse National Park. The national park to be created would be located in Ida-Viru county, Alutaguse, Lyganuse, Jõhvi and Toila rural municipalities. The National Park is created to protect typical and rare swamp, forest and coastal landscapes and heritage culture in East Estonia. The Alutaguse region is the historical largest area of coniferous forests and swamps in Estonia, where unique and representative natural objects are concentrated: unique dunes on the northern shore of Peipsi, the only continental dunes in Estonia, or scratches in Agusalu, the Kurtna landscape with the largest density of lakes in Estonia, the Holiday and Murakas of the largest sexes in Northern Europe and one of our most representative broad-leaf nature forests in Porun. The creation of the National Park will make it possible to highlight and enhance the region's natural values and to integrate the complex of its diverse natural and heritage culture. The National Park, as an internationally recognised mark, enhances the reputation of the area both domestically and internationally, creating prerequisites for the development of the region as a whole. The National Park creates good opportunities to introduce the region and organise nature education. The National Park is established on the basis of existing protected areas, namely eleven protected areas. These are the nature reserves of Puhatu, Agusalu, Muraka and Selisoo, Kurtna, Smolnitsa, Võuga, Strusga and Mäetaguse landscape reserves, Narva river upper run reserve and Iisaku parkmets reserve area. The proposed national park would have an area of 43568 hectares and would be predominantly state-owned. Private countries account for about 2% of the total area, or 910 hectares. The proposed national park consists of several separate pieces. Areas between existing protected areas shall not be automatically integrated into the national park to be created. The formation of the National Park does not entail any significant changes to the extent of the restrictions. Following the entry into force of the Act, the Environmental Board prepares and publishes a draft National Park Protection Code. The current rules for the protection of protected zones will be integrated. A management plan shall also be drawn up setting out the nearest and furthest objectives of the national park and planning actions to achieve them. A cooperation body will be set up at the National Park, bringing together regional interest groups. The task of the Cooperation Council shall be to direct the organisation, demonstration and sustainable development of the protection of the national park. It also makes it possible to better organise cooperation between the state and stakeholders. During the preparation of the decision, there has been close cooperation between the State and the local government. It also gives us further assurance that the successful organisation of national park protection can take place in cooperation with the local communities whose support is available. The background is so much that there are five national parks in Estonia today. The first of these, Lahemaa National Park, was established in 1971, Karula, Soomaa and Vilsandi in 1993 and lastly Matsalu in 2004. So Alutaguse would be the sixth national park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U146	Krista Aru starts the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am well aware that Alutaguse Municipality is very interested and fully supports the creation of this national park. But I am surprised that there is no coordination or position from the municipality of Jõhvi. They are not directly concerned, territorially speaking, but Jõhvi is right there. And has there been an agreement with these private landowners? The private land must have been 910 hectares, which remains on the territory of the national park.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U148	Thank you. I read about the municipalities whose territory this national park would remain, and part of it would remain on the territory of Jõhvi rural municipality. At the moment, I really do owe the answer to whether the municipality of Jõhvi has given a critical position in any way. I have been informed that, in general, both local authorities and local communities have been very supportive of this idea. If there's a problem upstairs, I'm always ready to discuss it. As I mentioned, the idea is to transpose the existing protection rules and to adjust them as a minimum if necessary. This means an additional disclosure process, but in the first step, everything would remain the same for the private owner. The aim is not in any way to tighten the protection regime in private countries, either; that is not the point. The point is, let's say, better market this region, these natural values that are there. We believe that this will contribute to realising the potential of tourism, which the region actually has in the eyes of both Estonian residents and foreigners, and will bring more tourists there. I also say from personal experience that if, for example, you drive around in a car and go to a foreign country with your family, you see on the map that there is a national park somewhere, you'll be more interested. You think you could go down there, see what's in there. It's just that the sign of the protected area on the map doesn't give that kind of interest. That's the point. The point is not to turn on anyone in the sense of tightening up the protection rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U149	Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U150	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, A very good and dignified process was worthy of Alutaguse National Park. My question: do you also see the creation of jobs in Ida-Viru County for such a large complex, or will your favourable attitude towards Ida-Virumaa end here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U151	We usually have Environmental Board dealing with the management of protected areas. We foresee ongoing activities and will continue to produce a management plan and a permanent demonstration of the national park. I think it would make sense if there were such a symbolic center of the national park. But we have been thinking that this type of activity could be financed as a LIFE project, a measure of financing environmental projects by the European Commission. Applications shall be submitted directly to the Commission. This measure still exists and the Commission's proposal for a financing plan for the new period includes the continuation of the LIFE Programme. So it would be a logical place for applications to be well suited to finance these types of activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U152	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U153	Good manager! Good waitress! It's great that the Alutaguse National Park is finally formed. But are any other new national parks being considered in the ministry's offices somewhere else? If you look at regions, there are sites and protected areas, whether in South-East Estonia, Pärnumaa or near Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U154	Thank you. We're not considering it right now. I know that historically there have been proposals of this kind in different places, including Pärnu County, for example, but then there has not been enough local initiative. I have realised that, in previous years, the locals have had a fear of this, too, just as the question was asked here earlier, whether this means any further restrictions on landowners. Here we have had a clear agreement that this does not mean any further restrictions. But maybe that's why there hasn't been such a strong initiative elsewhere. It is true that according to the information given to me, the Alutaguse region was already intended to establish a national park in the early 1920s. It's a very old and strong tradition, a thought that has lived for a very long time. I guess that's why it's been so successful. But if anyone wants to come up with a proposal, I think the support of local authorities is very important. If there is a strong initiative for local power, then why not get us ready to submit a draft to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U155	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U156	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! It is likely that there are still people among the owners of this 910 hectare of private land who think that they now suddenly have reason to submit a declaration for the disposal of their land. I see that many have done so in the Alutaguse region in December 2017. Do you have any information on how the state of affairs of processing applications for the acquisition of immovable property has changed since the land administration was given some resources? Has it gotten any smoother? I understand the Chancellor of Justice is still keeping an eye on this place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U157	Thank you. At the end of last year, the Riigikogu made a legislative amendment on our proposal, which reviewed this system. We took land under nature conservation directly out of the state budget and gave it to RMK's budget. This system currently operates in such a way that RMK sells land that is not necessary. This year, the RMK Council has approved a budget of EUR 5 million for the sale of such countries. My last phone conversation with RMK's manager revealed that they will also complete the budget. So the purchase of land under nature conservation has gone through: if it used to be that the Land Board bought the land with state resources and handed them over to RMK, then RMK will now buy them directly as well. In fact, even now, there is a major obstacle not to the lack of resources, but to arguing about the prices of these plots. The order has reached some plots, which are very expensive. They are simply of high value and it is not easy to negotiate fair compensation for the landowner. This system is so structured that we must deal strictly with these requests in order. So once we get here and we argue about it for a long time, we're gonna lose time. Some delays are caused by this. But more broadly, it's gone in a positive direction. If I'm not mistaken, there was $3 million in the budget first, $4 million. And now, as I said, it's already $5 million because we're using RMK's resources. I do not think there will be any problem with increasing this number next year, for example, to confirm the 6 million. And we keep shortening that order. But, yes, rather, the bottleneck is the mechanism that we have to come to an agreement: as long as we argue with one, the following decisions cannot be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U158	Eev Paasmäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I am convinced that the Eastern virumaans and the whole of Estonia are happy and proud to have one national park. Of course, the name and the word "Behind" can also be confirmed and resounding. I also know that during this discussion on the establishment of the park, there were a number of negotiations with various parties, as well as with local authorities. One of your answers was that I don't know if Jõhvi's example is or isn't a part of this national park. Hence my question: please tell me how open people are if someone thinks they're okay and wants to join this national park.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U160	First of all, I would point out that I didn't exactly understand this question about Jõhvi municipality in the first swing. However, I can see from these notes that the question is not that the municipality of Jõhvi had somehow been negative. I also state, for the sake of the protocol, that the municipality of Lyganuse and the municipality of Jõhvi have not responded to the draft submitted to them for coordination. They have simply not submitted a reply. If the municipality does not reply, it usually means that they are in favour. I assume there's support from Jõhvi municipality. Now, on a specific question. Since we are dealing with the law, the Nature Conservation Act, I think that if some local authorities have a proposal to add another one to the reserve, they should submit this proposal to the Riigikogu very quickly. The Committee on the Environment would then be able to discuss this and, as an amendment, consider the decision whether to add another protected area to it. Right now, our officials have proposed this park as optimally as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U161	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U162	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, What investments and sectors will the creation of Alutaguse National Park bring to the region? And has there been any additional pressure on deforestation in the region before the establishment of this national park?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U163	Thank you. I think we all agree that this means only good for the reputation of this region, which could be reflected above all in tourism revenues. We have not been able to assess this directly in the context of this draft. But I understand that local authorities also believe that this will help to boost tourism in the region, perhaps by creating jobs on the part of some entrepreneurs or by the personal decision of some people or families to continue their lives in the region. We have not put it directly into financial accounting in the context of this draft. We don't appreciate it so accurately, but we see a positive effect. The second part of the question: has it meant additional pressure? I would stress that these are already existing protected areas and the protection rules in force in these protected areas. It's all about it. We have also given a clear signal to private forest owners that we do not intend to tighten the rules of these protected areas as a result of this law, which means that they should not have this kind of concern or pressure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U164	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U165	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll take the word. It has been said here that now that the Alutaguse National Park is being tragedy, the protection rules will also be reviewed, and it has also been said that they will be relaxed, they will be relaxed. My question is, where are they now the toughest, whether the Holiday, Muraka, Porun, or wherever, and what will be relaxed? What is this relaxation in terms of protection rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U166	Thank you. I must give you an additional written answer. Defence rules are known to be very comprehensive and long documents. I don't know how to compare or assess which area they are now tougher and which protected area they are less harsh. It is also known that there are different zones and restrictions within a single protected area. However, we have been thinking that if this bill becomes a law and a new disclosure has to be carried out, we could consider the conditions under which popular events can be organised in these protected areas. Of course, nature must not be harmed, but public sports events and tourist events in the region could also be allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U167	Aivar Surva.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Perhaps the administrative reform has even contributed to this: the will to create the Alutaguse National Park is a century old and now we also have Alutaguse Municipality. Maybe that's the way things work out. Of course, local governments take these decisions and talk to their people. I am convinced that they will also stand there for people's rights. But I have a question that tourism has been through here many times. Ida-Viru County also has a unique tourist cluster with more than 40 members. This cluster covers the whole of Ida-Virumaa, after this administrative reform, in fact, a bit of Jõgeva and Läänemaa. Have they been spoken to and involved? How's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U169	The staff of the Ministry has conducted several discussions in Ida-Virumaa and I expect that they have also been waiting for a representative of the tourist cluster. After all, it is logically the tourism cluster's interest in this draft should be greatest.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U170	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you right now. Urve Palo, member of the Committee on the Environment, takes stock of the discussion in the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U171	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I will take stock of what we discussed in the Committee on the Environment before sending draft 676 to first reading. A meeting of the Environment Committee took place on 17 September. Deputy Chancellor Marku Lamp of the Ministry of the Environment was invited and Taimo Aasma, Head of the Nature Conservation Department of the Ministry of the Environment. I will no longer talk about what this bill contains, and I think the Minister gave a very thorough overview of it. Let me briefly talk about what we discussed in the Commission, who asked what and what was said. Chairman of the Commission Rainer Vakra noted that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 August 2018 with the wish to establish Alutaguse National Park on the basis of existing protected areas. I would remind you that 42627 hectares of the territory of the new national park are state land, plus 910 hectares of private land. So most of it's a state country. The whole territory of the new national park is currently protected. There are 11 protected areas: four nature reserves, five landscape protected areas, in addition to the Narva river top conservation area and the park forest of Iisaku. Marku Lamp explained that the Nature Conservation Act must be amended to create Alutaguse National Park and a new conservation code for the area should be drawn up. Taimo Assma pointed out that the process had been prepared since mid-2017. With the creation of the National Park, all 11 existing protected objects will be merged and the National Park will be an important trademark of the region. The Minister spoke about this today. The nature there is extremely versatile, with large bogs and forest masses. The idea of forming a Alutaguse National Park came from the state and found a positive attitude from the locals. The aim is therefore, in cooperation with local authorities, to create a holistic concept of the region and thus provide the basis for further development. A cooperation body with the National Park, for example, has also been set up at local level. Taimo Aasma spoke about this at the Ministry of the Environment. Rainer Vakra asked whether the protection rules for existing sites were added or a new rule was drawn up. The answer was that the current rules are with very different objectives and the new content will certainly be harmonised in order to address the region as a whole. This was followed by the question of whether, in this case, the protection rule would get tougher or lighter. The answer was that there is no intention of tightening the rules now. Rather, there has been a debate with the municipality to ease some of the demands, such as the organisation of public events. There will certainly be no significant relief from logging. The Code of Protection shall also be discussed by the Cooperation Council. I myself wondered whether the formation of a national park would only bring together objects already protected or whether more areas would be added. In reply, I found that the national park was made up of only existing objects. I also asked for clarification on the purpose of establishing a national park. Taimo Aasma stated that the aim was above all to add value to the region and to harmonise the organisation of the protection of the sites. I also asked whether there had been any opposition to the creation of a national park, for example between the first reading and the second reading, whether letters or statements against the creation of this national park were to be expected. Taimo Assma replied that, as far as he knew, no one had given negative feedback. Rather, individual technical issues have arisen, such as the acquisition of land. He also supported the idea of other ministries. In addition, there was an interest as to whether new national parks were planned to be formed in addition to the protected objects. The answer was that this is not currently the case. Valeri Korb asked how the surrounding oil shale miners view the creation of a national park. Taimo Assma replied that it is not possible to mine oil shale in protected areas and that there would be no change in the formation of a national park. There was also an interest as to whether, in theory, it would be possible for the Council to relax the protection rule. The answer was that it was possible. Currently, the country does not intend to tighten the rule, but mitigation is possible in a certain context. The carrier of the Cooperation Council and the representative of the State shall be the Environmental Board. After hearing this discussion, the Commission decided to propose the completion of the first reading of draft 676 (this decision was consensual) and to propose that the deadline for amendments to draft 676 be set at 4 p.m. on 10 October 2018 (this decision was also consensual). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U172	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. I will open negotiations to the political groups if that is what you want. That's not what you want. The commission's proposal, which just sounded, is to finish the first reading of draft 676. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 10 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U173	Next item: First reading of Draft Act 677 on the Accession of the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution to the Protocol on Acidification, Eutrophication and Ground-level Ozone Reduction and Approval of the Amendments to the Protocol 2012. The rapporteur is Mr Siim Kiisler, Minister for the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U174	Manager! Honourable Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to accede to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution Protocol on Acidification, Eutrophication and Ground-level Ozone Reduction, which was drawn up in Gothenburg on 30 November 1999. That's why they call it the Gothenburg protocol. The Protocol has also been amended in 2012. This Protocol and the amendments introduce international obligations to reduce emissions of five ambient air pollutants. These pollutants are sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, especially fine particles, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds. These pollutants have adverse effects on human health, natural ecosystems, materials and crops as a result of acidification, eutrophication or formation of ozone to the ground as a result of cross-border long-range transmission. In order to reduce emissions of these pollutants, the Protocol establishes emission limit values for both stationary and mobile sources. The obligations of the Gothenburg Protocol have been transposed into European Union law by various directives and regulations, all of which have been transposed into Estonian law and are already being implemented. The main legislation is the law on atmospheric air protection and the Industrial Emissions Act and the regulations and related best available techniques documents established on their basis. The commitments to reduce pollutant emissions by 2020 set out in the 2012 amendments to the Gothenburg Protocol have been transposed into European Union law by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants by adding internal Union emission reduction commitments for 2030. This directive has been transposed into Estonian law by the same amendment to the Law on the Protection of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Riigikogu on 13 June this same year. In order to achieve the objectives set, the Member States of the European Union must draw up a national programme to reduce emissions of certain air pollutants for the years 2020 to 2030. This programme establishes measures to reduce emissions of air pollutants applicable to all sectors concerned (including agriculture, industry, energy, transport, households). The first programme, approved by the Minister for the Environment by a decree, shall be submitted to the European Commission by 1 April of the following year and shall be reviewed at least every four years from the first submission. In summary: In order to implement the Gothenburg Protocol and its amendments, Estonia already has all the necessary legal provisions in place and the implementation of the draft law does not entail any additional obligations or financial benefits or costs. But joining the Gothenburg Protocol and approving its amendments will increase Estonia's credibility at international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U175	It seems that the hall agrees with this statement because there are no questions. Thank you to the Minister. Please waitress Valeri Korb, member of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U176	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu looked at this item on Monday, 17 September. Of course, Mr Siim Kisler, Minister of the Environment, Harry Liiv, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment, and Heidi Koger, Head of the Ambient Air and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment were invited to our meeting. The session started with Rainer Vakra, Chairman of our committee, stating that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 August 2018. Heidi Koger explained that all the obligations of this protocol have already been transposed into Estonian law and this is a step towards accession to the Protocol. The aim of the protocol is to reduce the emissions of the five pollutants mentioned by the Minister. I'm not gonna talk about this again. But what I'm trying to say is that the entry into force of the Gothenburg Protocol requires 18 participants, now there are only 13. The countries that are important to us, such as Russia, Ukraine and Belarus, have not joined yet because they are unable to produce a high-quality air pollution inventory. Mr Rainer Vakra asked why the number of participants in the protocol is so low when the changes were already made in 2012. The answer was that, after the amendments were adopted in 2012, the European Commission started to review its legislation in 2013 and produced a complete package of clean air. This review and adoption took three years until 2016. What to do is a little slow, but still where it's supposed to go. My interest was why Russia has not yet joined the protocol. It was a little explained that the work might go on, but the inventory has slowed it down. The Commission decided to propose the completion of the first reading of draft 677 (the decision was consensual) and, with the second point, to propose setting the deadline for the amendments to draft 677 at 16 a.m. on 10 October 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U177	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 677. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 10 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U178	First reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 673. Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, for the presentation of the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and related to the amendment of other laws with number 673. The draft amends and supplements the existing provisions on the transfer and processing of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data by air passengers. Internationally, it is called PNR. The aim is to bring the laws fully in line with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the use of PNR data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. As we know, international air travel is growing every year, and the comfort and availability of flying is unfortunately also being exploited for criminal purposes or to reach the target necessary for criminal purposes. All this increases the likelihood of cross-border crime. This same collection and collection of PNR data will help to apprehend criminals and detect organised crime networks. If Estonia also becomes a country that exchanges this PNR data within the Community with others, it will make Europe safer. It is important to note that PNR data are only processed to prevent and detect very clearly defined crimes. These are terrorist offences, along with organised crime, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and deliberate killing. This has been happening in many countries for years, and where these data are being processed, it has helped to apprehend internationally active criminals. In 2018, the countries of the European Union, including Estonia, will progressively introduce this PNR system. By the end of the year, all 28 Member States should have done so. In addition, the system is used, for example, in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico. The introduction of the Passenger Name Record (PNR) system will not lead to any changes for passengers. Travel and booking of tickets are done as usual. Air carriers shall transmit the same information as they have collected so far to the central database operated by the Police and Border Guard Board. The system processes data automatically and the results are accessible on a narrow circle, by authorised officials. The draft provides, inter alia, for adequate and proportionate measures to protect the personal data of air passengers when such data are processed by the competent authorities. In addition, I note that the IT preparations for the introduction of the information system in Estonia have ended, everything is ready. Once the legal bases are in place, we can also implement this information system for the security of all of us. We have planned the entry into force of the draft in general terms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U180	There are also questions for the Minister. Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U181	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister, you said there is a gathering of such information in a number of countries. So how has Estonia so far worked? Haven't we been safe so far to startle?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U182	Thank you. There is no point in collecting this data alone. In fact, it is that Estonia can, if necessary, if we have the suspicion that a criminal may move, incoming and outgoing people can be controlled within the framework of his own procedures. This system is automated and pan-European. And it is not of little importance that Estonia also has an exchange of data with the United States and Canada when the pan-European system starts. If somewhere in these countries a person suspected of committing a serious crime is put in there, then the compliance will be published, whether he or she is in Estonia or somewhere else. There hasn't been such a general, global or extended database so far. So it's definitely one step forward. It is worth noting that, in fact, Europe has not only active transnational associations in the aviation sector. We also have comparable connections in the shipping sector, for example. Surely you shouldn't forget about train traffic and everything else. The European Union's Home Affairs Ministers have also discussed this issue, so that, if this system were to start now in the aviation sphere, this information collection could be extended to other modes of transport crossing national borders in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U183	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U184	Thank you. Minister, I will try to ask my two questions with one question. The first question is simple: is it known how many Member States of the European Union have transposed this directive to date? The second question concerns the transposition of the directive by Estonia. As I understand it, Estonia has extended this directive not only to air passengers coming from third countries, but also to air passengers entering Estonia from the European Union. Was there any particular reason for this? Why did you take this directive more rigorously than the original directive provides for?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U185	Thank you. This is why the transposition of this directive in many European countries, including Estonia, has been somewhat slowed down. After all, we have made preliminary amendments to the law in 2016 or 2017, if I am not mistaken. It should be mentioned that, in fact, the directive talks about the need for more extensive control. Third countries are of little use. If, for example, a criminal, a terrorist, is already in the European Union by land and travels here using air links, he is essentially elusive. I think that such a solution is the only way to ensure the security of air connections, so that such a database can be used effectively in the first place. As for how many countries have transposed the directive, I do not know by heart, I do not have it in front of the list. I'm sure I'm asking you to send it. But I can tell you that, according to my data, most countries of the European Union have done so, and Estonia is unfortunately one of the last in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U186	Mr. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Mr Vilja Toomas, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, please speak!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U187	Mr President! The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the introduction of a large hall for the first reading of this draft law at its meeting on 18 September. In addition to the members and officials of the Commission, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of Interior, Ms Mari Rebane, Head of the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Veiko Kombusaar, and Mr Ann Aleksandrov, Legal Adviser of the same department were invited to the meeting of the Commission. Minister Anvelt made a report on the substance of the draft, just as he did to you today in this very form. So I'm not gonna say it again. I also say that, in fact, this draft law did not receive a heated debate in the committee. The chairman of the committee stated that since the amendments to this bill also concern the draft law on the protection of personal data, which is currently under the procedure of the Riigikogu, we could go at the same pace. It was decided to harmonise the deadlines for tabling amendments and to ensure that the laws were in force at the same time. I will also bring the decisions made by the Commission. It was proposed to place this draft on the agenda on 26 September and to close the first reading. Mr Toomas was appointed rapporteur and the deadline for the amendments was asked to be set at 16 a.m. on 11 October 2018. All these decisions were adopted by consensus in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U188	Thank you. There's a question for you too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Madam waitress, I will now ask you your own question, which you previously asked the Minister. Did the Commission also have a wider discussion on whether Estonia's legislative amendment or draft law is wider and stricter than the corresponding European Union directive that will be transposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U190	Thank you. The Directive provides for minimum requirements to be met in order to be able to say that the Directive has been transposed in accordance with the prescribed standards. We didn't really discuss it very much. But, as I understand it, and as the Minister explained, Estonia is indeed going through relatively few flights from third countries and it makes sense to extend this directive to all flights coming to Estonia from the Member States of the European Union and crossing the Estonian border.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U191	Mrs. Thomas, there are no further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U193	I'm opening negotiations. There are no negotiating requests, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 673. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the tabling of amendments to draft 673 including 11 October at 16 a.m. We are done dealing with this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U194	Let's go to item number seven. Draft Act 672 on ratification of the Agreement on the Amendment and Termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Poland on mutual facilitation and protection of investments initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Mrs. Riina Sikkuti, Minister of Health and Labour of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu for ratification a draft law on ratification of the agreement to amend and terminate the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Poland on mutual facilitation and protection of investments. The Agreement was signed in Warsaw on 6 May 1993 and entered into force on 6 August of the same year. On 20 October 2017, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland sent a note to the Embassy of the Republic of Estonia in Warsaw with a proposal to amend and terminate the agreement. The contract must be amended before it is terminated, as its provisions provide that the contract will continue to apply to investments made during its term of validity for a further 10 years after the termination of the contract. It is therefore necessary to amend the Agreement in order to bring it to an end in full. Termination is necessary to ensure equal treatment of investors in all Member States of the European Union under European Union law. Investment promotion and protection agreements concern areas governed by European Union law, in particular freedom of establishment, equal treatment and the free movement of capital and payments. Thus, the protection of investments and equal treatment of investors in the Member States of the European Union are governed by European Union law and Member States' bilateral agreements have no substantive meaning. The biggest difference between the current European Union rules and the agreement between Estonia and Poland and also the biggest problem is the resolution of disputes between the investor and the contracting country. The agreement provides that in the event of disagreement between the State and the investor, the dispute shall be settled by arbitration. It may also be necessary to interpret European Union law in the course of the dispute settlement process, which is the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union and not of an arbitration tribunal established in a third country. The termination of a bilateral investment facilitation agreement will help to avoid problems which, in the event of a potential dispute between the investor and the State, could lead to a situation where EU law is being infringed. In addition, the Court of Justice ruled on 6 March, including C-284/16, "Achmea', for years, whether the Member States of the European Union may appeal to arbitration under a bilateral agreement to facilitate and protect investment between themselves for the purpose of establishing an infringement. The Court found that the possibility of recourse to arbitration contained in relevant agreements within the European Union is incompatible with European Union law. So the law of the European Union and the provisions of our Treaty do not differ in substance. The only substantive difference is that if the agreement is terminated, the investor cannot turn to an arbitration body in a third country, such as the investment dispute resolution centre in Washington. The rights of investors are protected by European Union law and disputes must be resolved by recourse to the courts of the country where the investment takes place. On 19 July the European Commission also issued a Communication on the protection of investments within the European Union. Poland is about to close its internal procedures for the entry into force of the Agreement. The law awaits the signature of the President of Poland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U196	Thank you. There's a question for you too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Do you have any information on how many other bilateral agreements Estonia still has that could pose a similar problem to the current Polish agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U198	Yeah. Estonia currently has agreements in force with 13 countries. In the past, we have completed bilateral agreements with Italy, the Czech Republic and Denmark. But really, there are 13 agreements between the Member States of the European Union. The number of these agreements is actually 190 and many of them are in the negotiation process in order to reach closure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U199	Madam Secretary, there are no further questions for you. The presentation will be made on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by Mr Oudekki Loone, Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U200	Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for the first reading at its meeting on 17 September. During the discussion of the draft proposal, Mr Toomas Moor, adviser to the Office of the Foreign Economic and Development Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, presented the content and objectives of the draft to the same extent as the Minister in this Chamber has just done. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, questions were raised about the European Commission's efforts to reach an agreement on the joint termination of such agreements, and negotiations on this will continue. The Commission raised the question of which countries and what arguments have been opposed to the conclusion of this joint agreement. Mr Moor mentioned in his reply that the main problems were related to the Energy Charter Treaty, the renewal process of which is ongoing. There are two Member States, Ireland and Italy, which have completed all analogous agreements. The question arose as to whether bilateral agreements of this kind with third countries would continue. Toomas Moor pointed out that Estonia has a similar agreement with countries outside the European Union, i.e. the Middle East and Central Asia. Is there also this form of arbitrage in these agreements, which is the most problematic issue of the bilateral agreements that exist so far? The answer is no, partly because, when we negotiate bilaterally with a third country, we continue to pursue a common policy of the European Union. A common policy of the European Union is that it is based on an investment court system that protects the rights of the country better than arbitration proceedings. It was also asked whether the contract under consideration, which entered into force 25 years ago, had any benefits. Toomas Moor replied that there has been no investment dispute between Estonia and Poland and that such agreements do not always automatically increase investment; it is more important if the general investment environment of the country is generally looked at. The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously took the following procedural decisions: We had a proposal to put draft 672 on the plenary agenda for first reading on Wednesday 26 September 2018. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of this draft. If the first reading of the draft is completed, we propose to the Riigikogu Board that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, i.e. the deadline for amendments is Wednesday, 10 October at 5.15 p.m. By decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oudekki Loone, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the rapporteur for the draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U201	Thank you, Oudekki Loone, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 672. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 672 amendments, including 10 October at 5.15 p.m. We have finished dealing with the seventh item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U202	Let's go to the eighth item. First reading of the Act amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act, the Waste Act and the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U203	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a law which amends the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act, the Waste Act and the Social Welfare Act in order to give the municipalities more freedom and responsibility and reduce bureaucracy. The draft will transfer the dedicated subsidies allocated to municipalities for the development of waste management and the payment of social benefits and the provision of social services to the municipal revenue base. These grants currently amount to EUR 4.7 million. To this end, we will increase the municipal income base and equalization fund. Income tax on municipalities increases by 0.03%: from 11.90% to 11.93%. This means an increase in the revenue base of 2.9 million euros. This number will start to grow in the future, together with the gross income of the inhabitants of the municipalities. I would remind you that we are talking about gross income, not income tax. This means that, in practice, the municipalities receive the majority of the income tax received, since the tax costs associated with the tax exemptions are borne by the State. On the other hand, we will add almost 1.8 million euros to the Equalisation Fund, which will help to level out differences in people's incomes between municipalities. The share of the Equalisation Fund will be reflected in the 2019 state budget. The Equalisation Fund formula also provides for a transitional period in order to minimise the negative financial impact of the change on municipalities. The transfer of support for the development of waste management and the payment of social benefits and the provision of social services to the municipal income base does not undermine the services in these areas, as the requirements are laid down in legislation. Municipalities already channel significantly more money into waste management and social welfare than the amount of subsidies granted by the state. However, this step will give the municipalities the opportunity to organise their activities better and with less red tape. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft is a small piece in a larger and more important picture, a step towards more financially autonomous and more responsible municipalities. In an underdeveloped country, where theft or misuse of money and the lack of competence of workers is a widespread problem, it has been necessary to carry out activities in a state of accuracy, managed and under strict control. However, our country has developed considerably in the meantime and the solutions that were previously relevant are no longer effective in the developed country. The OECD's pooled studies show that decentralisation can improve both efficiency and the quality of services in the public sector. This is due, inter alia, to the fact that the benefits of more efficient organisation remain in the region and motivate better decisions. Moreover, at local level, there is a more immediate responsibility towards their citizens to ensure that the service is effective. Estonia is fortunate to be surrounded by highly developed Nordic countries. Their long-term and short-term experience shows that the ad hoc financing of municipalities places emphasis on spending and not on use, process and not on results, deprives municipalities of responsibility for the service provided, and does not allow them to take into account local specificities, to be flexible and to think more broadly. In the case of bad service, tag funding allows us to say that the state provided little money and therefore cannot do better. Excessive regulation of the use of money overwhelms officials with details that money can do instead of focusing on what still gets better. The withdrawal of labels from money reduces red tape. The task of the state is to create a framework and formulate what is expected of the municipalities. The task of the municipalities would be to find answers to the question 'How? '. One single solution is not suitable for everyone; each municipality must be able to design the solution according to local circumstances. The withdrawal of labels does not mean that the state is not involved in monitoring the quality of local government services and developing services. Instead of dealing with financing details, the role of the state in advising local governments, building monitoring systems, sharing information and feedback and carrying out research must increase. The Ministry of Finance has launched a local government service level project in parallel with the withdrawal of financial tags, aimed at giving the central government a more detailed overview of the level of local services, providing comparative feedback to local governments and sharing this information publicly with citizens. This is necessary in order to improve local services with overall funding. All in all, this bill increases the revenue base of municipalities, reduces red tape and gives municipalities more freedom and responsibility in developing waste management and in organising social benefits and social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U204	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U205	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We're talking about social benefits here. I have seen that, following the draft explanatory memorandum, there is a draft regulation that specifically talks about income support. Are we talking about income support or are we talking about some kind of support? I agree that in order to grant income support, the state has established a limit on income support for both the family and the individual family member with children. What kind of grants are we talking about specifically? Already today, the level of benefits and services is a major concern, despite labeled benefits, despite the fact that according to the Social Welfare Act, the local government has a duty to provide 13 services to its people. What kind of grants are we talking about specifically?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U206	Thank you. We are talking specifically about support for the development of waste management and support for the payment of social benefits and the provision of social services. I look at the municipal ad hoc grants, which are in the state budget for 2018. There is EUR 24 million for the income support allowance. It's a theme today that's still kind of labeled.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U207	More... Oh, second question, Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U208	I'm sorry! Waste management is certainly important, but it is not about my question, because I was most interested in social benefits. Does this also apply to funeral allowance? The Social Affairs Committee lacks information on this, and the Social Affairs Committee has not discussed it, a so-called funeral allowance that would go to local governments. This would also make a great difference in the local government: for example, when residents turn there, what rights they have. Or is it up to the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U209	Thank you. This does not concern funeral allowance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U210	Mr. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I would like to ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, the chairman of the committee, to act as rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U211	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This item was discussed last Monday, 17 September by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There were 7 members of the Commission, Mr Minister for Finance and Mr Sulev Liivik, who is Head of the Department of Financial Management of Local Authorities of the Ministry of Finance. The minister introduced the bill. You just heard the introduction. Then it opened for discussion. The first question was asked by my colleague Kalvi Tough. To put it round, it was asked whether social services could be financed in the same way as order and court. After that, he had to come back to his question twice more. As Sulev Lyvik said, he understands what these questions are about. They have received a letter from which I understand that I do not have this letter of my own, that in the city of Võru the bill was understood in the same way as instead of EUR 237000, which is intended for social services there this year, Võru will receive much less next year. There was talk of some 70,000, which is a huge loss. Mr Liivik reassured that this reduction did not have to exceed EUR 20000, but it is actually possible to clarify. Mr Jürgen Ligi asked a number of questions, all under one slogan: winners and losers. That word was three times. I mean, if we go from personalised support to sharing revenue base, fine-tuning sums, then probably someone wins and someone loses. Almost half the time that we had for this debate, 20 to 25 minutes, was what we were talking about. I'm going to the end of the debate right now. I asked if the Ministry had a table or details specifically for each municipality, how much one or the other would lose and how much might win. Yes, such data is available, calculated. I asked them to send this table to the Commission. Today we got it. Forty-six municipalities, nothing changes, they're zero. As far as they were able to achieve these objectives, they will continue to receive that much. The three municipalities, of which Ruhnu is certainly interested, I look up, lose 0.3%, six municipalities 0.2% and 16 municipalities lose 0.1% of the total. Eight municipalities get a plus of 0.1%. During the debate, this issue was also raised, so that the richest municipalities should win the most from it. If you have a larger base, you have a bigger growth. I looked at this table: Tallinn, Pärnu, Narva, Jõhvi and Võru remain zero, 0.1% minus is in Kohtla-Järve and Valgal and 0.1% plus is in Tartu. So these are the sizes. The representative of the Ministry spoke several times about the fact that if there is some reduction, it will be EUR 1 to EUR 2 per person per year. Enn Meri raised a subject. He read in the explanatory memorandum that it referred to the Nordic funding system and then recalled the example of Sweden, where the municipal income base has 30% of this income tax rate. Why can't we pass on the rate of income tax to the local government? Then the Riigikogu went to a discussion between the members of the Finance Committee. It was discussed whether to create our own tax administration for each rural municipality and city, etc., so we weren't bored. At the end, another dispute arose between Ligi and Taavi Rõivas: whether it is a right-opportunism or not, that this system should, however, be linked to the loss of the minus resulting from cuts in budgets. The Commission argued that the 0.03% by which the base will increase for the next two years, 11,93% and 11,96% will not be taken as a return to the tax base, it is the loss of labels, as has already been said here today, and this money will simply go to sin, from which there will be a distribution of less bureaucracy, etc. So the debate was quite long and interesting, but all the decisions were finally unanimously adopted. As I have already said, 7 members of the Finance Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft law be put on the agenda today, 26 September, and the first reading should be closed. The chairman of the committee was appointed as co-rapporteur. By the time the amendments are tabled, if I am not mistaken, October 5th would be 12 noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U212	Thanks for the presentation. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 685. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the draft 685 amendments, including 5 October at 12 noon. The eighth item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U213	Let's go to item number nine. Draft Law on Heritage Protection, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 684. Indrek Saare, Minister of Culture of the Speaker's Board, for the presentation of the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You've got a draft law on heritage protection in front of you, 684. The need for a new law comes from a practical life. The main problem in the field of heritage conservation is that the responsibilities of cultural monument owners and the state to ensure the preservation of monuments are not balanced. It creates a sense of injustice and threatens the preservation of the heritage. From the National Heritage Register, the inconvenient truth looks back: almost a third of the building monuments have a status mark 'avarious' or 'bad'. At this point, I have to quote Winston Churchill again, who has said: we shape our buildings; thereafter they shape us, or rural languages: we design buildings and then buildings shape us. Our quality of life and our identity depend on the environment around us. There is no doubt that a major factor in this has been maintained and maintained by cultural heritage. The aim of the draft is to balance public and private interests. The country's obligations will be increased to the benefit of the site owner, more efforts will be made to provide advice and prevention, and more flexibility will be given to decision-making. The State takes on the granting of special conditions for heritage protection and the partial reimbursement of studies and monitoring. In order to compensate for studies and monitoring, an additional €1.4 million per year has been foreseen from the state budget starting next year, which will essentially double the existing subsidies to owners. But we have 135,000 owners. Thus, it can be said that one in ten people is directly affected by the new law, and more indirectly, cultural heritage affects all Estonian residents and not only tourists, but also visitors to Estonia. The National Heritage Board will be 25 years old next Monday. The draft provides that the role of the Agency will become increasingly advisory and supportive and will also play the role of the Museum Development Centre. In 2007, the museums in Estonia received a record visit of over 3.5 million times. This clearly shows that museums play an important role among Estonians. It is all the more regrettable that the museum sector has so far lacked a development centre. Heritage conservation and museums are both areas of cultural heritage and it is reasonable to combine their strategic management with the national perspective. This bill has been prepared for four years. I want to take this opportunity to thank all the cooperation partners who have helped to hone thoughts and the text. There are indeed very many of them, not all of them can be mentioned: professional associations, trade associations, universities, associations, owners' representations, museums, public authorities and many others. I would also like to thank the Riigikogu Committee on Culture for the meaningful debate that has already taken place and I hope that these discussions will continue in this Chamber as well. The preservation of cultural heritage throughout the ages is a constitutional task for the country. This year's European Year of Cultural Heritage would be particularly symbolic in adopting this law. The government has approved a new draft law on heritage conservation. The text of the draft law that has come before you may not be perfect, but I am convinced that the proposed fundamental changes are very necessary. I believe that the Riigikogu's expertise in turn makes this bill a very good law. Our fundamental decision-making point is whether we turn our face towards 135,000 people, or owners, and whether we are harnessing our potential as a country with an exceptionally rich cultural heritage. Thank you. I'm happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U215	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U216	Good minister! I'm asking for a proposal to change the name of the National Heritage Board. Do you really think that's necessary? That's the first question. Second, how much is it going to cost? The term or concept of heritage conservation is still very important for Estonia. Are we really considering replacing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U217	Thank you, very good question! The debate on what this name should be has actually been quite long. This is not the final truth, it can be viewed from a number of angles. Change of name is necessary in this sense that if the National Heritage Board becomes increasingly involved in museums in the future, this should also be reflected in the name of the institution. There are a little more functions than what we've always meant under heritage protection. But whether this Cultural Heritage Agency as a name is sufficiently understood by everyone is a forum for discussion. As I have also said, the bill that is before you may not be perfect and the Riigikogu can make changes there. One of the possibilities that has been the subject of the debate has also been the Office of Heritage and Museums, which has already been said jokes, so that it would be possible to use the very beautiful abbreviation Mumu. I think this is one way to consider it so that we can describe the content and stick to the old name as well. Just as a reminder that the National Heritage Board was also called the Heritage Protection Inspectorate for about four and a half years, it was from 1997 to 2002. But what's it gonna cost? This change of name costs about 5,000 euros. Some forms, business cards and websites need to be redesigned. But we do not ask for special funds for this, in the Ministry of Culture's budget these funds are provided for.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U218	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U219	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, For a long time, it has been a problem in society to strike a balance between the accessibility of buildings under heritage protection, the accessibility of public buildings and the needs of people with special needs. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People has pointed out that, for example, in the case of architectural heritage, there is a common understanding that accessibility cannot be created there. How many amendments to the Heritage Protection Act, the new complete text or almost new text did you include in the preparation of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People? Does this new law now take into account accessibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U220	I can't tell you how much this involvement has been. If this has not been enough, I hope that it will still be possible to take this into account during the proceedings of the Riigikogu. I certainly do not agree that access to heritage-protected buildings cannot be guaranteed. Creating such access is more expensive than not doing it. We often also talk about new buildings that do not want to take sufficient account of the basic conditions that should be taken into account in ensuring access. This needs to be dealt with constantly. It seems to me that society is becoming increasingly aware that it needs to be done. Of course, in the case of a heritage object, it can be more complex than in the planning of a new building, in some cases it can be very complex and can also significantly increase costs. But, of course, in this context, where on the one hand we very much want us to think thoroughly before we go to build a new building instead of fixing the existing building, we must always think very carefully about finding these opportunities in order to ensure accessibility for everyone. So I very much hope that this work, which in the future will be carried out by the National Heritage Board or Cultural Heritage Board under the law that will be created, will take account of the needs of people with special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U221	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U222	Minister, thank you very much. I also ask about the use of money in connection with supervision and advice. If I understand correctly, 1.4 million is meant to compensate for monitoring and research. Are you sure this is what the owner of the site needs, supervision and advice or research?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U223	The first barrier that the owner normally encounters is that in order to design something at all near his house, which is under heritage protection, he must have special conditions of heritage protection. Right now, he's paying for it himself. He'll have to order them himself and pay for it himself. The first thing they do for this money is give him the special conditions of heritage protection free of charge. This is guaranteed by the state. Perhaps by planning a budget to see what he can invest and how much he can do, he does not have to put his money down there until he even realizes whether it is possible or not. This is one of the key issues, we hope that it will actually take away some of the fears that the owner has due to the limitations that result from the fact that it is a protected object. That's one half of it. The other side is that the state can partially reimburse the costs of research and heritage monitoring for this money. The purpose of this is to compensate for the costs incurred in addition to building or repairing. There are always costs in building and repairing. A protected object may incur additional costs, such as special conditions and studies and monitoring, in particular when carrying out these items. There's a country coming to help. It is clear that we will never be able to pay off all the costs associated with heritage conservation objects from the state budget. There are probably billions of them when we think about how much we actually have a protected heritage. The state, yes, in fact, as owners of several support programmes, invests tens and tens of millions. But the fact that a person who is forced to build a new house has to pay all the money himself, but to someone who restores, we pay for everything, I don't think it's exactly what we want.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U224	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U225	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, Minister. The question goes a little directly out of the draft framework, but it ties very well with the subject and is here as a follow-up to the previous question. That's the right thing to ask you. We are now on the verge of nature conservation to compensate for and buy out conservation land as well. Do we have enough money or budgetary resources for heritage conservation? I'm sure there could be more. How do you think this development could take place in the area of resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U226	If you ask the Minister for Culture such a question, I will say that, of course, there is not enough money. There's very little, there should be much more. But, as I said, the subsidies that are intended for the owners, we will double that decision. This is a very, very big step forward. But in my answer to the previous question, probably a large part of the answer to your question was also there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U227	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Estonian heritage conservation was once created by volunteers. Today, our civil society and the voluntary movement have progressed very much and become stronger, yet the current law on heritage conservation also has such a concept as the trusters of heritage conservation. In most cases, these trusts are persons who were largely part of the restoration of the heritage conservation movement in the Republic of Estonia. Why has this trust institution ever been lost in this new option? For whose sake and why, I'm mostly interested. I also asked for it in the committee, but your officials were a little down when they answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U229	I did not have the Commission's debate at this stage, I do not know what they were saying. After all, the trusters of heritage conservation were actually formed in the 1930s, when Estonia had one heritage inspector watching over the cultural heritage of Estonia as a whole, then the trusters' institution was created, as far as I have understood. As your historian, I'm sure you can specify that. Let's look at today's situation. We have a professional heritage defense that deals with it every day. We're increasing resources to do this as professionally as possible. The other way around, let's look at trust rights. They are essentially exactly the same as any ordinary citizen, just like all of us. We all have the right to point out that when cultural heritage is misplaced, those trusters have exactly the same right. Let us see how the community is involved in protecting and fixing cultural heritage. There are thousands of people who work on this on a voluntary basis on their own free time, and they too are kind of trusters. Now the question is whether some of them should have a sign or not. It is proposed that there is no justification for such a distinction today. If there is some very good reason why it should be, then the Riigikogu, I think, will discuss it and decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U230	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm reading here, and I realize that pretty easily we've developed cultural monuments that are in the hands of private owners. Let me give you a simple example. In the framework of the heritage month, it was also called upon to correct matters held by private owners if the owner himself did not treat the monument in his possession with good authority. I'm reading out of this bill that now the owner, who has grabbed himself some cultural monuments, can fix it for the people's money. Where's the good-for-nothing responsibility? Why are you putting private owners of cultural monuments in an unequal position? Some people work hard, but the other ones fix the crowd for money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U232	No, absolutely not. I come back to what I have just said to your colleague on this subject. It seems to me that he understood what I said, but I'll go over it again. This additional 1.4 million is intended to compensate for costs not incurred in normal construction or repair activities. Then it is possible to obtain special conditions of heritage protection from the state free of charge. The state says that if you want to do something about it or this section, you have to consider these things. Until then, you had to pay for it yourself, and that's an extra cost you won't have if the building isn't protected. The State will assume the cost of developing and formalising special conditions in the future for everyone who owns the protected house. If you wish, you can ask for up to half of the compensation for studies and monitoring. If justified, the State will come to the aid, if it seems to be a very high additional cost to the owner, then the State will come to the aid of up to half. You have to put on the other side. As far as building, decorating and maintaining your house is concerned, it is the cost of the owner anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U233	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U234	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, If I'm wrong, fix me. I think the list of heritage conservation objects was confirmed in 1997, right? It was done mainly, say, from the Russians, well, things. Is it also planned to review this list to see what things need more heritage protection today, given that the borders of objects covered by heritage protection go through houses, plots and all kinds of such private property and also national, say, buildings or territories? Please tell me if it is planned to review this list, which is completely protected by heritage and which is not. Some objects may be scrubbed or simply lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U235	Yeah, this job goes on all the time. On the one hand, what are the objects that should still be protected? Well, you don't get protected by a minister signing a few new decisions every day, but there are some of those things a year. For example, while waiting for a presentation here, I had time to sign the placing of the building of the National Library of Estonia under protection. Similarly, revisions are made on an ongoing basis in respect of which there is no longer any point in defending it, because it is no longer possible to protect it because the object is not sufficiently preserved or it appears that such types of objects are already adequately protected and not all of them are rational or practical to protect them. Maybe our memory is already safe and not all objects need to be protected. In addition, it is very important what the local community decides, because local authorities also have the possibility to make decisions in substance, which are important objects in their view and which should also be protected at local level. It's multi-layered in this idea. The new law, on the one hand, gives the National Heritage Board more capacity, which means that it will actually be able to give itself an ever better picture of what this current state of affairs is and, on the other hand, it will also provide more flexibility. Not all objects need to be protected as a whole, only some part of the object can be taken. To this end, the new law gives much more flexibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U236	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Can you tell us how many of our heritage culture's sacred giants and sacrificial stones are now being mapped out how many of them would need and receive financial support with this bill and will you cooperate with professionals in the field? The other part of the question is: what happens if the Tallinn City Hall Foundation wants money for research? Obviously, 1.3 million of it isn't enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U238	I'm coming forward from the back. Tallinn City Hall has already been issued special conditions for heritage conservation, as far as I know. I don't know about further research, but there's a reasonable ceiling for further research, and there's no more compensation for it. It's not like one million out of this 1.4 million is gonna be handed over to somebody. That certainly will not happen, we are still talking about significantly lower amounts that can be compensated. If anyone wants to investigate and investigate for years and only stays to investigate, then it is not for the state to pay for it. A person can study his property very thoroughly, just as much as he wants, as long as he does not harm it. It's everyone's own decision. As far as mapping is concerned, this definition, which is to be taken into account under natural shrines, is divided between the law on heritage conservation and the law on nature conservation. In the sense of heritage conservation, we are primarily talking about archaeological sites where these natural sites are under the Heritage Protection Act, but individual trees and other such natural objects are covered by the Nature Conservation Act. It is the local community that plays a very important role, what it values as a natural sanctuary, how it uses it, and what rules it agrees with each other. Certainly the state cannot regulate all things there; it would probably not make sense either.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U239	Dear Minister of Culture, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Cultural Commission discussed the Heritage Protection Act on 18 September and a thorough presentation was made by Minister of Culture Indrek Saar. In addition, members of his team participated actively in the discussion: Merle Põld, Head of the Legal and Property Management Department, as well as Liina Jänes, Ministerial Adviser, and Maris Sild. The presentation you have just heard was quite thorough and most of the problems were opened in the discussion. So even though I took the law myself, I obviously don't have to introduce it all. In short. As the Minister for Culture said, the Commission has already started a very serious and meaningful exchange of views and it must probably continue to do so at quite a number of meetings. This is a law that has long been awaited, a beauty that has long been made. Personally, I'm probably a very old person, and I still remember how it was discussed many years ago. Then there was the main problem of whether heritage protection was an occupation or inspection and whether the sheep could bite around the grass or if the stone might eat up. There are quite a number of issues that determine that the debate is going to be tense and that this law will have to be adopted again in a few years' time. This is a law that has different opinions and interests. On the one hand, all of us would always like to update, build and create something quickly, and sometimes it seems that the heritage defence is suddenly interfering. On the other hand, we have an interest in preserving everything that is old, beautiful and valuable. But, indeed, he may start mixing a new one, or there is no money or resources for it. Another such weight - language story is, of course, money. The main problem in all countries is that when a country gets richer, it protects better, but a poor country protects worse. In some ways, we have run ahead of ourselves in Estonia, and the financial problem is felt. For example, all the artifacts found must be preserved. Today, in fact, we have the most difficult conditions to keep all the found, all the ancients, as well as archaeological discoveries properly. But as soon as we talk about it, all archaeologists turn to the Riigikogu and say: 'Yes, I think this area should be financed a little better. ' Important issues that went through the Commission also went through the current discussion. First of all, with regard to this law, it has to be said that flexibility really is considerably greater than it was before and that it is trying to meet the owners of heritage objects. Of course, we will not be able to meet as much as a rich Swedish country, which is still very strong in stimulating the repair of ancients. There were also a number of questions, which were repeated here, and which actually concerned the general concept of heritage protection that must be protected at all. It would be good if we could get rules and rules on the one hand and, on the other, we would know exactly how they are used, what their content is. For example, is it the same thing as if natural sanctuarys were classic objects of heritage conservation or not? I dare say from the professionals' side that they tend to go sometimes in the spirit realm. Knowing the archives well, I can say that many natural shrines are like spirit creation, they have not been in history, they are the kind of objects that are the fruit of human thought. There was also the question of whether the Heritage Protection Act was sufficiently designed to include even a good colleague, Jüri Jaanson, who asked about it for people with disabilities. By the way, this is also a discussion throughout Europe. I dare say that we also visited the Tartu Town Hall because several people come from Tartu. The heritage defense says the vaults aren't supposed to break down there. In similar cases, Germany has said that the Town Hall must live first, it must have a function and it must be changed as little as possible, but the first priority is to keep it alive. We will also continue to discuss and discuss these matters in the Commission. There was a brief discussion of trusters and of what was raised here again. This was also seriously discussed in the Commission. The discussion was about what to do with the name. I dare say that the new name proposed corresponds to European developments. Across Europe, efforts are being made not to have a small cell and a name for each box. Cultural heritage as a whole would be inclusive of the European side. On the other hand, the Commission felt it, and several people brought it out, we are firmly rooted in tradition and some traditions are very important to us. We all remember our period of independence, remembering the great role played by the heritage conservation movement. Apparently, I will not commit much sin if I predict that we are still behind this idea, at least in costaars, as it seemed, and in fact at the meeting, too, that apparently the proper name will be the Ministry of Heritage and the Office of the Museum. It's longer, maybe in the future someone will look at it this way, but there's our strong traditions behind it. One last comment on my part. It was already said that heritage conservation had different methods, and it also went through a number of opinions that when and when it was an inspection. With the students, I just read the records of the 1857 bridge court in the archives. I have to say, then the rules of heritage protection were much tougher. The farmer, who broke the building material from Karksi Castle, received a flesh penalty. After his ass was hot, no one went there looking for construction material. The Commission considered that the deadline for submitting proposals for amendments was 10 days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 10 October. The unanimous, consensual decision was to finish the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U241	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. You have questions. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U242	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Indeed, for these accessory anti-examples, you do not even have to go to Tartu, here in the building of the Riigikogu, these problems are completely present. Yes, the basic principles of heritage protection can also be defined according to the Venice Charter, according to which all old be old and all new be new. Today, architects are likely to be able to build very clearly in such a way as to distinguish what is old and preserved, through which we store our memory, and where accessibility is really needed. So consistency is possible. I actually wanted to ask you that. You yourself said that you intend to discuss these issues in several other meetings of the Commission. You will certainly also discuss the so-called balance between accessibility and heritage protection in your committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U243	Thank you for this question, which we quite agree on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U244	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U245	Good manager! Good waitress! As a former museum director, I read here with surprise that you want to connect museums to heritage conservation. Art Museums, Health Museum, Natural History Museum, Zoology Museum, museums are all kinds of museums. Well, fucking excuse me! So, what's the fairy tale here, or is it just some body that seems to exist at this point, where can anything that is be put together?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U246	A good colleague of Peeter Ernits himself knows the conditions of Estonia quite well. Not all museums are under the Ministry of Culture at all, so you can't put them all together. Apparently, no animal museum is being given command of archaeologists. That's probably the way it is. This is a draft that has only just arrived at the Commission, it is not the Commission's will. Your proposals are also very welcome. For any matter where there may be misunderstandings, suggestions must be made and brought to their attention. It's as simple as that. But the fact that the animal museum is going to rule the archaeologists, forget it, it's not gonna happen, there's no place for that. But let's mark it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U247	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U248	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear colleague Aadu Black! You once brought up such a thing as these natural shrines, where cultural heritage, heritage conservation and also nature conservation overlap. But I ask more broadly: did there be certain controversial places in the Commission where the Nature Conservation Act and the Heritage Protection Act overlap in one area? One such place is the city's mountains, specifically the Viljandi Castle Hills, where there is a landscape reserve and heritage reserve. Were such potential conflict areas discussed, and will the law take them into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U249	I say the opposite: there is a very serious debate on these issues throughout Europe. I recall a report by a Dutch colleague who was just talking about the relationship between heritage and nature conservation. He felt that the preservation of the so-called national cultural heritage and national memory, both in the form of nature conservation and heritage conservation, could be more closely linked. He spoke in particular about how the Netherlands universities introduced herthology, and we translate it in a conditional way. It's a bad name, and it's in foreign language half the time, but it's used in slang. This means that a person who learns to be a consultative and controlling officer knows both heritage conservation and nature reserves, knows that acid rain is harmful to both the castle of Toompea and the outcrop of Ontika, operates in the same way, etc. They think that, they in their own small country, Estonia is perhaps a big one, thinking that more of these agencies could be brought under one hat. Then it wouldn't be as if we had the Laith church that the conservationists were saying that the church had to be taken out of there because the indigenous trees couldn't grow, and the heritageists were saying, "Hey, listen, these indigenous trees must be taken down, 'cause they're about to fall on the church. I'm a little euthanized, but the problem is really the same. Let's talk. Do these authorities need to cooperate more closely? Yes, of course they do. In a parliamentary state, there is also Parliament, which makes sure that not everyone defends their own administration, but the public interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U250	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U251	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I am inspiring from the question of Jüri Jaanson, a good fellow member of the Social Affairs Committee. A brief answer is enough for me. When you start involving interest groups in the Commission and discussing this bill, I hope that you will discuss accessibility not only from a physical accessibility perspective. There are very different types of disability and accessibility is a much wider problem than for people with wheelchair or reduced mobility only. It's enough for me if you say yes or no.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U252	Well, I guess we should take a longer answer. Indeed, the Commission had the same moods. If you look back over your shoulder, you'll hear confirmation that this is where we're going. That's one side of it. The other side is that the danger of all of us saying that some ancients must restore the face of 1656 will not happen. The French also complained that their Notre-Dame had been rebuilt for 500 years. So what do you pick now, the first phase of this or the middle or phase 55? The European Heritage Doctrine has still achieved that the building primarily lives, performs functions and, at the same time, has to be modified and damaged as little as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U253	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U254	Good manager! Good waitress! This bill is impressive, it's kind of a 'Syroja master', but I didn't find it, maybe I wasn't looking in the right place to see if he had any intention of being developed. A number of studies, Latvia, Finland and so on, have been referred to. How does this bill look in that light?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U255	Maybe someone can answer... Look, I left the previous Riigikogu before this bill came to the hall. Maybe Urve or someone will. The intention to develop was already there at the time. So it has been dealt with in a number of configurations, and indeed I have not heard a complaint about the lack of this document. But I haven't checked this episode. This is the material taken over from the previous composition, from the previous one, in fact, in the previous one, it was the story of the grass-snapping of the sheep. So this is a very consistent creative process.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U256	Thank you, Mr Chairman of the Commission. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group Laine Randjärv, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U257	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guests! The amendments to the Heritage Protection Act, a practically new draft of the Heritage Protection Act, have been among the duties on the shelf of the Ministry of Culture for a long time, as the Chairman of the Committee on Culture has just said. For my part, I can confirm that with a reply, because this question arose here. Even, you could say, ten years ago, these first steps were taken. In fact, it is really very pleased that the draft has become mature for discussion, for which it has been approved by the authors. The Reform Party considers it important that one of the objectives of the draft is to balance the rights and obligations of the state and the owners of the sites. Among other things, the State will assume the task of ordering special conditions for heritage protection and will partially reimburse the costs related to the studies and monitoring of monuments designated by the National Heritage Board. This is extraordinarily important, because the situation of a very large number of privately owned heritage protected objects is not commendable, their future has been dark, and the owners have not had this first so-called "inputing blade" or impulse to begin the process of restoration altogether. It seems that the Ministry's proposals to supplement the activities of heritage inspectors are also substantive, which means that the function of the state should be more helpful rather than punitive to the citizen. Most discussions have arisen on the restructuring of the National Heritage Board, both in terms of subject matter and form. This means that the issue of the name of the new agency with extended responsibilities and areas of activity will be addressed. Name themes are always the most emotional, for the identity issues associated with the ex-name and the people can best understand such matters. The Cultural Heritage Agency has now been proposed. It has caused dissatisfaction, we have received many letters. The name of the agency is disappearing from the theme of heritage conservation. As has already been said here, there was a debate in the Committee on Culture, which was based on a number of referrals. I also think it is reasonable to find consensus and to mention a number of areas. Discussions on the name form are likely to continue. I would also ask how much it costs to change the name. That's a subject we haven't really talked about. This is certainly important because there are very many examples of changes in the names of the agencies and the amounts have been colossal in making these changes. Feedback from the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People has also come to the draft, which is related to the accessibility of heritage-protected buildings. In the case of architectural heritage, there is a common understanding that accessibility cannot be created as it would violate the historical environment. At the same time, talented architects and designers are often able to find solutions that do not harm the environment, but in most cases the owner of the object cannot ask for or demand it, and therefore it may not be possible for good solutions to come. The organisations of disabled people have pointed out that even if compared with other Baltic countries, Estonia has less courage to look for accessible solutions. When examining the draft law, the parties were given the impression that the changes, while supporting greater flexibility, did not show that accessibility had a specific role or was specifically highlighted. From my own experience of Tartu mayor's time, I recall how in the case of the information point of Tartu Town Hall, there was a serious struggle with both the local representative of heritage conservation and the National Heritage Board, so that a small pledge was made to replace the stairs, which was actually only 20 centimeters high. The dispute lasted for several years, which was really strange. Finally, when it was done, it did not damage the town hall or the people who were there, but, on the contrary, gave the Commissioner, who visited the meetings of the Tartu Council in a wheelchair, a better chance to participate in the work of the committees and also in the work of the council as a whole. So this is a very serious question and we should ask whether we prefer a person or a house. I think that in such a case, you should definitely choose a person. Of the objects under heritage conservation, one of the most notorious Tallinn City Halls is probably today. One way has been to discuss a solution that would allow, including private money, to establish a multifunctional modern cultural institution in the city hall or instead. There's been talk to the architect of this building. Although the buildings he has made have such a sad fate historically, he does not object to a review of the issue of renovation of the city hall or the issue of retrofitting or upgrading. I very much hope that the new law will allow us to have a rational view of this object, this building, which, regardless of its protection and the bright status of the past, will stand in vain and crumble. For years, the future of the building has been discussed, and no action has been achieved. Honestly, it doesn't make any sense. There's a question of what's behind this stasis. Who could exactly benefit from this building standing there and falling apart? If you don't want to, you'll remember the saying about the dog on the hay: you don't eat and you don't give to others. I believe that the law on heritage protection should take the view, both for this problematic object and for similar buildings in the future, that living content and its rational use are better than a crumbling house. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Reform Party Group supports the completion of the first reading of the Heritage Protection Act and we will certainly also be actively involved in the debate on the amendments. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U258	Thank you, Mrs. Randjärv! Krista Aru, please, on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U259	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Culture in particular! I would like to thank all previous cultural ministers and many specialists involved in museums and heritage conservation, all of whom have worked for years to get a completely new form and content of the Heritage Protection Act. I do not just agree with the chairman of our committee here. We have not been able to discuss this law very well in the committee yet, because there are many very exciting, interesting, intriguing issues, which the committee chairman has taken stock of in general. I believe that these disputes are all ahead of us and will ultimately lead to a rather consensual solution, but at least working for Estonia. There are some bottlenecks that I would like to draw attention to already on behalf of the Free Party Group. First of all, the same may still be a very limited link with nature conservation sites. Estonia is so small and cultural protection, heritage conservation and nature conservation, and their interrelation with a very large number of objects could give us a very good result by acting reasonably. This is a big issue, and I am not suggesting a solution here in absolute terms. Another major area is the introduction of museums, or rather museums, to the current Heritage Board. It has, as always, the advantages and disadvantages of such changes. Having been related to museums myself, I know that what really is getting worse in view of the Estonian level is this whole development side, the development of information technology, which must make the heritage stored in all museums available to everyone. It is very difficult to get a good result that would work in the same way for all museums if it was coordinated by one official at the Ministry of Culture who would have to deal with another hundred other things. The third big issue is precisely the voluntary part of heritage protection. I can't imagine that heritage protection can survive at all without citizens' own initiative, goodwill and even notice. We already have the same network of trusters. In most cases, these trust men are people who themselves were among the leaders of the restoration of independence of the Estonian state through heritage conservation in a very good and broad sense. I do not find any justification or clear explanation why this network of trusters, which is so characteristic of Estonia, linked to Estonia's restoration of independence, which, by the way, costs nothing when we talk about money, should simply lose out, all the more so as it is very important to these people, more important than we can actually imagine. Why would one such law, which is very positive in its general direction, still step by step towards the preservation of private and also public protected objects, break the support that has always existed from the other end? This involvement of the public through volunteering is not going anywhere. I'm sure the name of the new job is what we're still looking for. I know the museum council is working on it again. We certainly should not, by looking at our cultural history and by assessing and valuing it, allow the word'muinity protection' to disappear from that name. Mumu is a very beautiful abbreviation for a new profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U260	Thank you, Mrs. Understood! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 684. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 684 amendments, including 10 October at 5.15 p.m. We have closed the debate on the ninth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U261	The tenth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Information Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please report to Rene Tammis, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology at the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U262	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am here today to introduce you to the draft law amending the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The law needs to be amended in order to transpose into Estonian law the European Union Directive on the ease of use of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. By ease of use, I mean the term which the draft before you refers to the term accessibility. This means a feature that characterises the usability of websites and mobile applications and the perception of the content they contain, particularly from the point of view of people with special needs. Promoting accessibility will improve the readability, comprehension and navigation of websites and mobile app content for people with special needs. The draft before you today therefore serves the principle of a social state, which is based on the Constitution. The directive that we want to transpose with this draft will set out the principles and technical techniques to be followed in order to make public authorities' websites, e-applications and mobile applications more visible to people. The accessibility requirements introduced by the Directive take into account a wide range of specific needs, including visual, auditory, perceptive and language disabilities, as well as learning difficulties and physical and neurological disabilities. Compliance helps to make websites and applications clearer, more structured and user-friendly, improves their overall quality and improves user comfort. There are no mandatory legal requirements for accessibility of websites in Estonia or at European Union level so far. The studies carried out have shown that the voluntary application of such requirements has not produced the expected result. However, the directive and this draft will no longer make recommendations, but will lay down specific requirements. Some examples of the new requirements are as follows: For example, subtitles must be added to the content of the video in order to allow people with hearing difficulties to understand the content better, it must be possible for people with visual difficulties to increase and reduce the content presented in the form of text, while the website must be able to navigate only by keyboard, images on websites must be provided with a description to enable people with visual difficulties to understand what they are depicted by using help programs, etc. It is clear that no IT changes will take place free of charge. The need for financial resources depends on the number of online environments covered by the Directive, their current level of compliance with accessibility requirements, the complexity of the online environment and the overall plans for renewal or replacement. Despite the initial investment needs, a reduction in workload is foreseen in the longer term due to the movement of customer communication to cheaper communication channels. On the basis of the data collected by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the physical service of a client to public authorities is two to ten times more expensive than the service of e-services. At the same time, a reduction in administrative burdens is foreseen both for citizens and for the state. It is estimated that there are up to 300000 people with special needs in Estonia whose opportunities to use e-state services are greatly improved by this bill. At the same time, the possibility for people with special needs to engage in entrepreneurship is increasing, as they will receive the information they need online in the future. For the country, the reduction in administrative burden is due to the fact that a significant number of people who could not do so before can use e-services to communicate with authorities in the future. Of course, there is also a transitional period for institutions to meet the requirements. The accessibility requirements for websites not yet published on 23 September 2018 should apply from 23 September 2019, but for existing websites published before 23 September 2018 from 23 September 2020 and for mobile applications from 23 June 2021. Dear members of the Riigikogu, with this bill we are taking over the directive, which makes it easier for several hundred thousand Estonian people to communicate with the state. I'm counting on your support. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U263	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In Estonia, there were recommended standards and precepts in the past how these websites could also be accessible to people with visual disabilities and other disabilities. What, in your opinion, has prevented this recommendation from still being followed or from being complied with, is that now the law is coming and immediately commands and commands?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U265	As noted, this is a transposition of the directive. In order to ascertain whether a website or a mobile application already complies with the requirements of this Directive, it is necessary to check whether the website complies with the European standard referred to by the Directive and the draft implementing act in our draft. For mobile applications there is a standard for adoption. On the positive side, one example can be given of the government's single online platform set up under the leadership of the State Chancellery, to which all ministries and some sub-offices have joined and whose framework largely meets this accessibility requirement. As far as the content is concerned, compliance is the responsibility of each body individually.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U266	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U267	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'd like an addition to your last line. In the Committee on State Reform, we have also tried to find out from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications who has the overall picture of whether information is available in a uniform manner. For example, local authorities have different solutions. The answer was that it is, for some reason, very difficult to grasp, or create uniform standards. Will the transposition of this directive change practice and can it be said that the Ministry will see it and will be able to carry out follow-up on time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U268	When we talk about follow-up, the Data Protection Inspectorate is obliged by the draft law to carry out follow-up, hence the cost of the post of supervisory officer is foreseen, at a cost of EUR 32000 per year. As far as the development of e-services in the country is concerned, they are decentralised, but the current draft creates a standard on which it should be improved in terms of accessibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U269	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U270	Good manager! Good waitress! 300,000 people are an impressive number. But how much do you think this minimum directory should include, for example, the website or application of your ministry or another body? There are people who don't hear well, there are those who don't see, who don't move, who don't understand, and so on. How much can this minimum be on one page?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U271	When we talk about the target group, the number of people with special needs in Estonia is estimated at 300,000, including people with disabilities at 150,000. The opportunities for all these people to use e-government services will be greatly improved through this bill. At the same time, people with special needs have the opportunity to engage in entrepreneurship, as they receive the necessary information and can use e-services to communicate with institutions. As an example, according to Statistics Estonia, nearly 60% of people with disabilities actively used the Internet in 2015 and nearly 100% of the target population used the internet for people aged 34 or less. It is clear from this that, in the event of improved accessibility of e-services, it can also be expected that people with special needs will become more active.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U272	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U273	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'll ask you this. With regard to the transposition of the Directive, it is already possible for the Ministry to establish a standard base that could be transposed by all public authorities. At the moment, you are based on the fact that you are not doing this, each authority is responsible for getting to the application of this one detailed standard. Why have you been doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U274	As far as the development of this standard is concerned, the standard for mobile applications is still being adopted, but in the case of websites, as I have already mentioned, compliance with the European standard, to which the directive refers, as well as the draft implementing act in our draft. This Directive is a reference to this standard.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U275	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U276	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, you slipped past that standard and that catalogue. But I'm asking you right now, why don't you open my eyes a little bit about how the directives are divided? With regard to this directive, you have said that it is a minimum-harmonising directive. What does this directory of the Euro Directives look like, what are the distributions of these directives?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U277	I also touched on how these requirements would apply in my speech. This concerns the content of websites and mobile applications, readability, intelligibility, navigation. The basic principle is that e-services, web applications and mobile applications are available to people with special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U278	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U279	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When implementing the law, institutions already incur costs when they have to assess whether their existing websites meet or do not meet its requirements. But has at least a calculation based on the assessment and reapplication of one, say, larger type or more advanced website and a simple website been made by submitting a bill to give an overview of the costs that may be incurred by one or another institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U280	Thank you for that question. Indeed, the implementation of this law must take into account the costs of implementing the requirements, the costs of monitoring the situation and reporting and monitoring. They were actually assessed when the draft was put together, but it has to be acknowledged that in many cases it was very difficult to estimate costs on the basis of current knowledge. As regards how to cover these costs, the costs incurred by the holder of the information arising from the implementation of accessibility requirements will be dealt with independently in the budgetary process in each administrative area. However, in the case of expenditure, it is important that, when developing online environments, compliance with accessibility requirements is a condition for allocating structural funds. This is very important because these funds are mainly used in Estonia to develop online services and e-services, and this is a very important prerequisite. I have already talked about the supervisory costs, the Data Protection Inspectorate really does incur the costs and it provides for these funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U281	Mr. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for the presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U282	Good Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I see the fresh minister did well with his bone audition, the officials have done you good memos, so more or less came out. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the processing of this draft on 17 September, including. Indeed, there is no art in connection with this draft; it is linked to the previous draft. In a figurative sense, ramps are made to communicate with the online environment. We have decided that this bill is so good that it can put it on the agenda of this House today, and we have done so well. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to conclude the first reading. We agreed on that. Our proposal is to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 4 October. That's the story.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U283	Mr. Chairman of the Commission, there are no questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 671. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 671 amendments, including 4 October at 5.15 p.m. We have closed the debate on the 10th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U284	Let's go to item 11. First reading of Bill 686 of Amendment of Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U285	Reverend Vice-President Kalle Laanet of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Copyright Act for discussion and decision of the representative of the people, which aims to bring the Estonian legal order into line with European Union law. The law of the European Union has, in turn, acceded to the Marrakesh Treaty of the World Intellectual Property Organisation and the international obligations arising therefrom. In short, these obligations consist in increasing the availability of works and other protected material (books, magazines, newspapers, other publications and notes, and other printed material), including on sound media, in a form that can be used by visually impaired persons and by persons with other print disabilities, i.e. beneficiaries. What's important? Our copyright law, indeed, in a more general way, actually states that there is a right to make them available to visually impaired persons, without paying a fee. The draft clarifies the rules described in our national law and also ensures that accessible format copies made in one of the Member States of the European Union can be disseminated and used throughout the European Union. This means that the materials produced in Germany in the blind can be used in Estonia and vice versa. Understandably, given the number of visually impaired, 7,000 people, the market in Estonia does not function, and for general human reasons it is necessary to intervene here with legal rules. This is done throughout the European Union. These amendments, by transposing European Union law into copyright law, define more precisely in this context the beneficiary, the visually impaired person, define the categories of works covered by the exception, which I named as a list, introduce the right to distribute and use an accessible format copy and identify the competent entities that may make these materials available to the blind without payment to the author (these are government bodies, legal persons providing education, training, custom reading or access to information to beneficiaries on a non-profit basis), the authorised uses of the exception, such as copying, distribution, network use, as well as the obligations of the competent entities in the manufacture of copies. It is very important, in order to protect core copyright rights, that it is necessary to ensure that all of this is accessible only to the circle of entitled persons. This draft has been sent to the coordination circle and, among other things, the authors' association was satisfied with the deepening of justice in this way. That's all the government has to do to present this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U286	Thank you, Mr. Minister of Justice. You have at least one question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A few years ago, we had people with disabilities involved during the election, visually impaired. They said it would be good if the material was written at least in 16 points. The same large letter has been used in children's books. Do you not see here the possibility that children's books, poetry collections, will use the same letter, simply to evade taxes or receive more favourable terms, because these works are meant for visually impaired people, and the author will not be asked for consent?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U288	Thank you. This catalogue, the persons who can access this material, and which individuals offer these things, is defined by law. I don't think it's gonna be so drastic now. Undoubtedly, there may always be a limit to the rules. However, a catalogue of persons who are entitled to produce or exercise this right has been established. These are still associations that are service providers for blind and partially sighted people, and public authorities, as well as local authorities. I believe that they will certainly not play any games with such a serious question as providing reading opportunities for blind people or visually impaired people to produce children's literature under that name in violation of copyright. Certainly there are children among the visually impaired, and of course these children must also have the right to benefit from the tenderness they pass on through the book.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U289	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U290	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Today, information has come through the Estonian Artists' Association through the media that is being brought to court in order to receive compensation from the government for lost royalties, because they have not received remuneration for works in smart devices or sound media. Does this directive rule out such a case or could similar things happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U291	Thank you. No, I don't think it has anything to do with it. I also referred to the fact that the authors' association itself accepted this draft and that this limitation of property rights by nature also exists in the Estonian Copyright Act. I do not think there is a conflict between performers or creators and owners of property rights and the will of this law. Above all, it gives us the opportunity to make more literature available to visually impaired and blind people, as it is possible to ensure better access to it across the European Union. I'm sure it's humane. However, as far as technical equipment and user charges are concerned and how it is organised, this is an important and important issue in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U292	Minister of Justice, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I would like a presentation by Heidy Purga, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, to be submitted by the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U293	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Preparation for the first reading of the draft was discussed in the Committee on Culture on Monday, 17 September, including. After the debate, it was proposed to send the draft to the plenary on 26 September, and it was decided to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur for the commission. I will describe the debate that took place in the Commission on 17 September. Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, and Heidy Purga, Yoko Alender, Krista Aru, Heljo Pikhof, Toomas Jürgenstein, Toomas Väinaste and Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits participated in this discussion. The bill amends copyright law so that visually impaired people can obtain more easily, including on sound media, books for them, magazines, notes and other printed materials. The draft will ensure that the rights of organisations involved in the reproduction of protected materials for visually impaired persons are harmonised at EU level. Urmas Reinsalu presented the content of the draft and explained that this draft was one of the elements of the copyright package. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has been adopted and the European Union has now joined it. The draft is intended to implement the Directive. The principle is that it is possible for visually impaired people to make various materials available in blind letters without paying royalties. The core of the proposal, the so-called making available of unpaid royalties, is already in existing law. The directive gives rise to a certain obligation to specify the details of the implementation. As a second element, the Minister pointed out that access is expanding beyond national borders within the European Union. The representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that the drafting, negotiation and formal coordination process went smoothly, as a similar system is already in operation and the existing one is not changed. At the same time, the opinion of the Estonian Journalists' Association was also presented, who considered that compensatory free use should be considered in contrast to the current regime and the regulation of the draft, which ensures the availability of materials without payment of royalties. However, since this is not a free use that could be classified as mass use, according to a representative of the Ministry of Justice, the current system is not planned to be changed according to the draft. The Commission was interested in audio communication on this draft. The representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that according to the draft, visually impaired people should be able to access publications and printed materials, but the materials are made available to them very often in the form of soundbooks or radio programmes that are not available in Estonia, and this part will not be used in practice in Estonia. Audiovisual communication and audio-booking are also covered by the draft. The Commission meeting was interested in geo-blocking the use of works in the context of this draft, to which the Ministry's representative replied that cross-borderism in a specific field and subject is already present and that visually impaired people are already guaranteed by the WIPO Convention, which is the World Intellectual Property Organisation Convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U294	Thank you. Good waitress, no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 686. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 686 amendments, including 10 October at 5.15 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U295	Let's go to agenda item 12. First reading of Bill 651 of the Act of the Government of the Republic initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (merger of the Consumer Protection Board and the Technical Supervisory Authority and correction of the deficiencies revealed in infringement procedure No 2017/2072). Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U296	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Although the official title of the draft is very long, I can say that I am in front of you with the draft merger between the Consumer Protection Board and the Technical Surveillance Authority. Today, both agencies operate separately. The Consumer Protection Board and the Technical Surveillance Authority are both under the authority of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as national supervisory units. The aim of the draft is to combine the core functions of the Consumer Protection Board with those of the Technical Supervisory Authority, thereby increasing the capacity of public services provided to people and businesses, making more efficient and efficient use of available resources and meeting society's expectations in the longer term. Currently, the main tasks of the two agencies overlap in some respects. In some cases, the same market participants and control objects are subject to supervision, and both agencies provide advice and prevention and information, and they do so in areas that overlap at times, whether playgrounds or adventure parks, as well as media and communications. The reorganisation of the activities of the separate small state agencies will no longer create an effect and added value; it will not create it either for the state, for businesses or for citizens. The creation of a joint office and its increasing competence pool and wider scope of activities provide prerequisites for better access to services, but also for increasing their quality, and it will certainly provide a much more efficient use of resources. Public services for citizens and businesses are becoming more high-quality and uniform. Most importantly, these services are received from a single institution, they no longer have to go to two institutions, as is currently necessary in many cases. So the Single Authority will also make it clearer and easier for businesses to communicate with the State. In order to implement the policy, there will be a single authority facing the client and a common interpretation of the application of the requirements will be created. In order to achieve these objectives, the first challenge is to achieve synergies after accession. Each year, both the Consumer Protection Board and the Technical Surveillance Authority are accompanied by supervisory tasks additional to European Union law and national legislation. They require additional resources to recruit new staff or to change the workload of existing staff, as well as to acquire and develop IT tools. This means that there is a need for very good lawyers who would support the supervisory procedure and also represent the Agency, if necessary, in court proceedings and litigation. In addition, it is necessary to develop the IT capabilities of the agencies in order to strengthen and enhance cooperation with the European Commission and the agencies of other Member States in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and the uniform implementation of the rules. However, in order to fulfil the additional obligations, the Agency lacks resources, while payroll funds are frozen. In the course of the merger of agencies, inter alia, the objective is to find internal resources to carry out ever-increasing supervisory tasks and to pay employees competitive wages through the harmonisation and restructuring of work processes. The agencies should be merged from 1 January 2019 in accordance with the draft and the law should be adopted by November 2018 at the latest. At the time of the entry into force of the Act, the accession-related activities will be completed, including the development of a new statute, structure and composition, and the accompanying human resources activities. Issues relating to the seat and budget of the Agency shall be resolved and amendments to the regulations established under the laws to be amended shall be initiated. Following the merger of the agencies, the agency will continue to fulfil all the existing core functions of the two agencies, i.e. the need to maintain the current competence, i.e. the staff. It is therefore important that the process of addition is carried out smoothly and that the working processes are carried out in the least disturbing manner possible. In all legal relationships in which the Estonian Republic is represented by the Consumer Protection Board or the Technical Surveillance Authority, as of 1 January 2019 the Estonian Republic will be represented by the Joint Authority, which will be named Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. In the context of the accession of the Agency, no increase in state fees, the introduction of paid services or the increase in penalty rates or fines shall be envisaged. The purpose of the merger is not direct cost savings or revenue increases. The most important objective is to achieve synergies and efficiency in content activities and, in the future, to provide a better quality public service and a clearer understanding of who is the partner of those who need it. The cost-synergies resulting from the merger are reflected in optimised labour costs resulting from the combination of the administrative and support functions of the institution and the reduction of duplication of activities, i.e. the cost ratio of support services to all labour costs. The cost-synergies of the main processes of the Agency will also improve in the long term in the context of more effective supervision activities, the resource released will be available to the new authority to increase the volume and effectiveness of the activities and the resources available will be directed towards further tasks and competitive pay. So far, voluntary turnover has been quite high in both jobs. The need to maintain, maintain and develop a number of information systems will also be reduced, which will in turn lead to future savings in the cost of developing and maintaining information systems. Savings are also expected as a result of the restructuring of the Agency's fleet. In addition, in the long term, the budgetary growth needs of one institution are lower than those of two different institutions. However, the unification of agencies creates one-off costs for connecting IT systems and bringing the agencies together in a common building, as both agencies are currently in a building where they would not fit together. I would like to stress that the main win will still not come from cost savings, but from reducing the administrative burden on customers and because businesses and consumers will have a more appropriate public service available from one place. In addition to the merger of agencies, the draft includes the removal of shortcomings in Estonian law due to insufficient transposition of Directives 2009/72/EC and 2009/73/EC of the European Union's internal market in electricity and natural gas. In fact, according to the European Commission, the right of the Minister to supervise the Office in the exercise of his duties under the Electricity Market Act and the Natural Gas Act must be completely excluded. According to the European Commission, the provisions of the law are not sufficient. At the moment, we have in law that the Competition Authority, as a national supervisory authority, is independent in the exercise of its functions under the relevant laws. This is set out in both Section 93 (3) of the Electricity Market Act and Section 37 (1) of the Natural Gas Act. It complements the Civil Service Act by adding a restriction that the five-year term of office of the Director-General of the Competition Authority may be extended only once. The point of the provision is to remove the European Commission's doubts, but by its very nature the added provision does not create anything new in the current law, as the current law also guarantees the independence of the Competition Authority as a regulatory authority. Currently, Märt Ots is the Director General of the Competition Authority. His third term of office began on 8 July last year. As a result of the amendment, the five-year term of office of the Director-General of the Competition Authority may be extended only once in the future. In addition to helping Estonia to stop breaching the requirements of the directives, the restriction will prevent further strengthening the independence of the institution. The restriction to be imposed has no other expected effects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U297	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U298	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! It is understood that such an important event entails one-off costs. You have pointed out that, if IT systems are merged, you will turn to the European Union to get the means to do so. However, what is missing is the amount that the European Union will receive and whether they will have to make this decision during the course of this year, like the Riigikogu. What is the length of this process so that it does not hinder the integration of the new agency's IT systems?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U299	Thank you. The one-off costs we have incurred are also covered by the other resources of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. You will also see this in the changes to the 2018 budget that came to the Riigikogu. The maximum estimated costs (here I owe you an answer on how much we are applying for European Union funds) for IT systems are 320,000. Of course, this does not come entirely from European funds. These are the costs of connecting the Agency's document management systems, external and inland waterways, monitoring information systems, as well as the costs of purchasing network and conference equipment, i.e. new equipment, and the optical line to the server room, because of the move to a new building and the exchange of desktop computers for laptops. So in the new building, employees will also receive new technical tools, not only will they develop online.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U300	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U301	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The general purpose of the law is perfectly reasonable and understandable, I think, for everyone. The merger of two agencies, as you yourself mentioned, will move into a new building. Does this new building exist, is the contracts already being concluded? What about the previous location of the two agencies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U302	Indeed, the Technical Surveillance Authority came into existence ten years ago when four agencies joined. In ten years, there has been such synergies that they are ready to expand their tasks further. A new house has been found and this is the surface of Riigi Kinnisvara AS. So far, the Technical Surveillance Authority was in its own house, and this house is probably going to be sold. The Consumer Protection Board was on the rental area of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, so one of the smaller areas will be returned and moved together to the surface of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which according to my memory is located on Endla Street.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U303	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U304	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Can you tell me how these jobs are gonna work? There are very specific issues concerning technical supervision, which may also be restrictive or restrictive of consumer rights. Which one is hierarchically upward? This means that processing processes can become long. But they say it's not a big deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U305	This new agency does not actually create tasks that are no longer carried out, but there are some tasks that have so far been authorised by the Technical Surveillance Authority, but the Consumer Protection Board has had to supervise. That is why the monitoring of rail passengers' rights is going away from the combined office, as the Technical Surveillance Authority has dealt with the authorisation procedure for train traffic and the supervision of rail passengers' rights must be entrusted to the Road Administration. It is also in line with European principles that the same agency does not grant or supervise its own implementation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U306	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U307	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! In the context of the state reform, of course, we also want an analysis of whether duplication of tasks has been reduced as a result of the merger. One of the reasons why the super ministry was created was that legal advice had to be brought under one roof and the duplication reduced. However, I understand that if the content of this draft is expressed through staff, one person goes to the Labour Inspectorate, but I cannot read any other major movement or that some people should leave or be reduced. There were principles of sharing a payroll, but let's talk about division of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U308	The merger of the two agencies takes place on the basis of a PricewaterhouseCoopers analysis. First, it was analysed whether there were areas that coincide and were found to have them. It then looked at the potential savings that could be achieved through synergies. I already mentioned that there might be savings in a car park, for example. There are three fewer executive positions, and there are six winners in the General Department.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U309	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U310	Good manager! Good waitress! It's two jobs, they're put together. But there are more jobs. There is the Maritime Administration, Road Administration, Aviation Administration, etc. What are the plans that can still be put together?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U311	Thank you for your question. Indeed, there are more jobs. Let's look at the last decade. There have been only two major mergers, one of which was the emergence of the Police and Border Guard Board, and ten years ago, the Technical Surveillance Authority was established, under which the Railway Authority and the Communications Authority joined. In earlier times, in the early 2000's, there were more of these movements. I know that my predecessors have had some brave ideas that could, for example, abolish the Maritime Administration and turn it into another department, but I do not support this principle. I think the Maritime Administration has a clear mission, just as the Road Administration does and so does the Air Force. The maintenance of the Agency shall ensure the professional performance of those tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U312	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U313	Good manager! Good waitress! These are not brave ideas at all. Roads are roads, waterways, roads or airways. It would make sense to still put these agencies together so that support structures can be reduced, etc., when it comes to only three posts. There would be a Road Administration with three departments: the Waterways Department, the Routes Department and the Third.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U314	I couldn't exactly follow your logic, but you have an opportunity to write down your positions in the election program. If it has sufficient support, you can make a slogan that you will lose the Maritime Administration in Estonia, in the maritime state. Personally, I think all the agencies have been pretty busy. The Maritime Administration has worked intensively to come up with legal initiatives that would bring back large cargo ships under the Estonian flag. The Road Administration is one of Estonia's largest agencies, with a budget of over 800 million euros a year. He is responsible not only for the maintenance of the main roads, the supporting roads and the gravel roads of the state, for the maintenance of winter and for the repair of the summer, but also for the DMV, because the Road Administration in its time was connected to the DMV. It is also responsible for road safety and public transport. By losing land governments, he has assumed responsibility for local air connections. So this is a pretty big job. But it's all a matter of expert analysis. My personal conviction is that in Estonia, these occupations are not redundant.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U315	Thank you, Kadri Simson! The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U316	Good Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure! Millions of viewers and listeners! This draft was discussed by the Commission on 10 September and the following procedural decisions were taken: to propose the completion of the first reading and to set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 10 October 2018 at 17.00. The contents. There were a number of different questions, many of which were already answered by the minister on this board. Various opinions were expressed, including my personal opinion that the direction is absolutely right, bureaucracy needs to be tightened up, it needs to be constantly dealt with, but it is a matter of its own whether this step is sufficient or whether it should be taken forward. In the same way as before (the Minister forgot to mention it) the Competition Authority, for example, went to a more natural place, the Ministry of Economic Affairs under the administration of the Ministry of Justice, etc., has been constantly redeployed and reduced. This direction should in any case be continued. In Estonia, this is a small market, and consumer protection is all about market surveillance, competition supervision, the protection of the freedom of a small market, and could rather be together at some point. But there are certain nuances to which the Minister in the Commission wisely pointed out: the granting and supervision of licences cannot be carried out by a single authority, which is also right. In short, the debate must be continued, but the direction is largely correct. Overall, the Commission unanimously supported and recommended support for all others. So let's hope the hall supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U317	The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for the representative of the Commission. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 651 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 10 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U318	First reading of the draft law amending the Rail Law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 670. Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, initiating waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U319	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll introduce you to the draft law amending the Rail Law. This draft transposes into Estonian law Directive 2016/2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2012/34/EU as regards the opening up of the market for domestic rail passenger services and the management of railway infrastructure. The main objective of Directive 2016/2370 is to open up the market for domestic passenger transport services and to clarify requirements regarding the management and independence of the infrastructure manager. The Rail Act is already in line with the provisions of the Directive on opening up the market for passenger transport services. Estonia does not restrict access to the market for passenger transport services even now and there is no need to amend this law. The proposal concerns in particular the infrastructure manager. The requirements to ensure the independence and impartiality of the undertaking and a level playing field for persons wishing to use the railways for the transport of goods or passengers are specified. To this end, both conflicts of interest must be eliminated as they affect the infrastructure manager's decisions on market access, as well as the possibility of cross-subsidisation in the integrated structure. The concept of vertically integrated undertaking is introduced. A vertically integrated undertaking shall be deemed to be an infrastructure manager that is controlled by the railway undertaking or an infrastructure manager that is itself in control of a railway undertaking, and these associated transport undertakings shall provide transport services within the infrastructure manager's network. In order to avoid conflicts of interest, additional requirements are added to the infrastructure manager's financial transparency, according to which the infrastructure manager is not allowed to lend or borrow from the railway undertaking. Loans and services between parties belonging to a vertically integrated undertaking may be provided but only on market terms in order to avoid market distortions and cross-subsidisation. However, since the current regulation requires the infrastructure manager to always comply with the requirements of impartiality and independence in its operations, the provisions to be specified are rather oppressive to the vertically integrated undertaking and do not entail any significant additional activities for the infrastructure managers currently operating on the market. AS Eesti Raudtee and South Western Railway Infrastructure AS operate as infrastructure managers in Estonia, both of whom have already been declared independent by decision of the Competition Authority. Despite the fact that AS Eesti Raudtee and the transport company AS Operail are both controlled by the State, they are not considered to be vertically integrated undertakings in accordance with the draft and the directive. South-Western Railway Infrastructure AS is owned by South-Western Railway AS, which holds a transport permit and carries out small shipments in the same network, so it is classified as a vertically integrated undertaking. However, as mentioned above, the company has been declared independent and the regulation of the draft does not entail any additional activities or restrictions for the company. Nor has it been announced in the process of coordinating the draft of South Western Railway Infrastructure AS that the changes implemented by the draft will have any impact on its activities. Clarifying requirements for traffic management and maintenance planning, taking into account the interests of rail users, where possible, and consulting with a view to more efficient use of rail. In addition, the rights and obligations of the Competition Authority in the exercise of its supervisory powers in relation to compliance with the requirements of financial transparency and supplementing the grounds for appeal to the Authority shall be specified. This will, to some extent, increase the workload of the Agency. A further complaint may be made if the person considers that the infrastructure manager has treated him or her in a discriminatory or otherwise unfair manner when carrying out traffic management, innovation planning or maintenance, or if he or she considers that the infrastructure manager does not comply with the requirements of independence and basic tasks or does not comply with the requirements of design, assignment or financial transparency of the works. The draft provides for additional tasks for the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority has assessed the need for additional resources, around half of the jobs. Since these are additional work obligations arising from European Union law to the Competition Authority, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not have to find the corresponding amount from its budget at the expense of other activities, but the need for possible additional costs is being dealt with in the budgetary strategy process of the State. The draft will enter into force on 25 December, which is the deadline for transposition of the Directive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U320	Any questions for the Minister? Thank you, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U321	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U322	The rapporteur for the Commission is Erki Savisaar, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U323	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Railway Act on 10 September, including: Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Indrek Laineveer, Head of the Railway Service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Margus Tähkerpõld, expert, were invited to the discussion. Indrek Laineveer introduced the bill, just as the minister did a moment ago on this board. I'm not gonna go over it again. During the discussion, we had some questions. First of all, the chairman of the committee had a question about the explanatory memorandum. It states that the terms of the loan agreements taken before 25 December 2018 must be changed to market conditions or terminated. He asked if such loans had been taken at the moment. Indrek Laineveer replied that state companies do not have such loans, in the case of South Western Railway, this has to be specified. The chairman of the committee also asked to clarify why the proposal by Estonian Railways to clarify the terms 'have control' and 'decisive effect' in the draft has not been taken into account. The Minister explained that these are the terms of the Commercial Code and the Competition Act and that the Ministry of Finance's website can also find the meaning of these terms and therefore they do not need to be specified separately in the Railway Act. Toomas Kivimägi thought that in this case the law could contain a reference. I had the question of whether Estonia has problems with the openness, transparency, independence and impartiality of railway undertakings, and if we adopt this law, what will change in essence compared to the current situation. Indrek Laineveer explained that there are no known problems with Estonian railway companies. The adoption of the Act creates certain additional obligations for the Competition Authority and the infrastructure manager, but there are no major changes to the draft in Estonia. Kivimägi also asked whether the draft would create additional competition for Elron. The Minister explained to us that since passenger transport is subject to state subsidies, the draft does not change the current competitive situation. The Commission decided (consensually) to propose the completion of the first reading of the draft and to propose that the deadline for the submission of amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 10 October at 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U324	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? Thank you, Erki Savisaar! I'm opening negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. First reading of Bill 670 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5 p.m. on 10 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U325	First reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 662. Initiator waitress, Minister of State Administration Janek Mäggi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U326	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On 12 June, the Riigikogu adopted a draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, which amends nine laws in total: the Government Act, the Planning Act, the Local Government Organisation Act, the Administrative Cooperation Act and the laws governing property reform. The main objective of the draft is to make the process of supervision and other procedures faster and more flexible in different laws. Ministers will be given the opportunity to delegate, on behalf of the institution, acts and decisions to officials, if they do not exercise political discretion, by amending the laws of the Government of the Republic, the Planning Act and the laws in the field of property reform. This means that not every supervisory act or procedural decision must be signed by the Minister; he may, if he wishes to take a decision of a more technical nature, authorise the officials. The second major change envisaged by the draft is the change of the regional cooperation body of the local authorities and the additional task assigned to them. The amendment of the Local Government Organisation Act empowers the Minister responsible for regional development to delegate administrative tasks to the local authorities' cooperation bodies in relation to the regional development support programmes of the State. The amendment would allow the co-operation body to verify the compliance of applications received under support programmes and to take decisions granting or refusing the application. The amendment to the Local Government Organisation Act will allow municipalities to change the co-operation body they have chosen in the future, for example if the previously elected body does not carry out its tasks as expected. In addition, by amending the Housing Privatisation Act, the processing of claims relating to land mortgages is transferred from the Minister of Finance to the State Support Services Centre. According to the current Land Reform Act, the Ministry of the Interior performs the task of authorising the privatisation of the state's border areas. The mayor used to do that. Thus, the Ministry of the Interior must now grant permission if a foreigner or a legal entity governed by Estonian law wishes to privatise either a land unit bordering the land border or a border strip with a cadastral unit or a border water body other than Lake Peipsi, Lake Lämmijärv or Lake Pihkva, or a rural unit located on the island, with the exception of Saaremaa, Hiiumaa, Muhu and Vormsi. As this is not a classical permit procedure, it is appropriate to amend the Land Reform Act by authorising the granting of a position. Privatisation of land by an alien or a legal entity governed by Estonian law will continue to be permitted only if it does not conflict with the public interest or security of the state and local government units. This consideration is also included in the current law. The amendment to the Land Reform Act also empowers the Minister of the Interior to give a position to the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in order to privatise the state's border areas, namely the Police and Border Guard Board or the Defence Police Department. Last one. According to the draft law, an amendment to the Government of the Republic Act waives the requirement of legal higher education in the capacity of State Secretary. The general requirement of employment in the Civil Service Act is extended to the Secretary of State, i.e. a citizen of the Republic of Estonia with at least secondary education, full capacity, who is able to speak Estonian to the extent prescribed by law or law. The text of the draft text is currently erroneously stating that the requirement for higher education would be waived at all in the case of the Secretary of State. This is not the way it is meant to be, and I will propose a modification by 10 October. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U327	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U328	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. With some of the last two sentences, you have already answered my question, which is precisely the amendment of the Government of the Republic Act, the Secretary of State and the requirements for his education. The statement states that the requirement for legal higher education in this position is no longer strictly necessary. I will now ask you this: what are the new requirements that are still necessary for this office? I also recall that I cannot imagine parish and city secretaries without legal preparation, for example, although competence also develops during life, in practice, I admit that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U329	Thank you. I have negotiated this amendment with the Secretary of State, Heiki Lood, today. It was he who considered it necessary to waive this requirement. The situation has simply changed somewhat and the duties of the Secretary of State in the same way as before. However, this amendment does not exclude that a person with a legal higher education is applying for this post and is elected. It simply expands somewhat the circle of those who have the opportunity to apply for this post. There has also been a Minister of Justice in Estonia who did not have a higher education, so I think that if the requirement for higher education remains, it will be enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U330	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U331	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Let me ask you a few questions to go on. Really, we reappointed Heiki Lood last week. When he met the political groups, he pointed out exactly the same nuance that legal higher education was needed there. Has it not been announced that this new requirement or the relaxation of the claim should be accepted with the draft before the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U332	I'm not familiar with potential candidates. I think that this particular point is purely due to the circumstances in the State Chancellery. The State Chancellery employs several lawyers, people with legal higher education. So I believe that this particular change will simply help to expand the range of potential candidates, but it is very likely that a person with legal higher education will still be elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U333	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U334	Thank you. My question was why no public competition has been announced so far when we already knew last week that the Secretary of State was going to a new post. But my second question is the amendment to the planning law. I'm sorry, but this bill is a bit awkwardly written, there are very different authors' handwritings and therefore one message is missing. What was wrong with the adoption of the law on the reform of rural governments that it now needs to be amended by, for example, the planning law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U335	Personally, I have signed a lot of detailed planning documents that were previously made by the county elders. The amendment of the Planning Act gives the Minister the opportunity to delegate, but does not oblige. This means that, in some cases, in some other laws, it is important, in particular, to create more opportunities. But that doesn't oblige.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U336	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U337	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You are a serious diplomat in answering these questions, but I will ask one more time about the Minister's right to delegate signature to officials. You said that it is important that there is no political discretion, that the official plays a routine role in signing it. Who decides which signature is subject to political discretion and for which not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U338	That's for the Minister to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U339	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur of the Commission is Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U340	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and guests! The draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws 662 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 June and discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 17 September. In addition to the members and advisors of the Commission, the Minister of Public Administration Janek Mägg and the Legal Advisers of the Regional Administrative Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Olivia Tellus and Martin Kulp, were invited and participated. The Minister made an in-depth presentation, and he also pointed out here in his presentation the same topics that we addressed in the Commission when developing the subject. In addition, Olivia Taltud and Martin Kulp took the floor. In fact, the questions were asked and the debate was held in two directions: one was the right of the same minister to delegate the signature and the other was the right of the Secretary of State to make a request for education or, more generally, the requirements of the Secretary of State. As the Minister concluded, it is likely that it was overlooked that the version presented for the first reading of this law really makes it possible to read it as if the Secretary of State was not going to have a requirement for higher education. This was dealt with by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Commission, and by Hanno Pevkur, Mart Nutt and Helmut Hallemaa. We jointly considered that this requirement for higher education should, in fact, be at least at the level of a master's degree. All the speakers believed that there was no need to be a requirement for legal education, except Hanno Pevkur, who considered it necessary. Mart Nutt pointed out or pointed out that the official delegation of the Minister's duties should be very closely and closely monitored so that matters requiring political consideration are not delegated. In fact, the Minister is responsible for his field. It shouldn't come out that decisions are made, but nobody at a high level is responsible. We also made procedural decisions, three of them consensually. The consensus was carried by Hanno Pevkur, Helmut Hallemaa, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb, Peep Aru and Tiit Terik. We have decided to propose that this draft be put on the agenda today, and here it is, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 10 October at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint a waiter in front of you. The proposal to finish the first reading was received by 6 votes in favour: Helmut Hallemaa, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb and Tiit Terik. Two members of the Commission opposed Hanno Pevkur and Peep Aru. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-26_U341	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Helmut Hallemaa! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 662 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 October. I'll see you tomorrow! Good night. Closure of the sitting at 19.38 p.m.
