ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 12th working week. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U2	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! It is my honour and pleasure to hand over, on behalf of the 13 MPs, a draft for the amendment of the Holidays and Celebrations Act. The law of holidays and celebrations is not just a law that regulates our lives. In fact, the Holidays and Celebrations Act also expresses our assessment, our desire to shape our society and to lead it in exactly the direction that has been highlighted and mentioned as patriotism, trust between the state and citizens. The most important thing that the Republic of Estonia uses is the Estonian language, both by looking to its future and by acting every day. This year, in 2018, when 100 years have passed since the declaration of the Republic of Estonia, I propose, on behalf of 13 parliamentarians, to declare the mother tongue day, the current national date, a public holiday. It would not only be praise to the Estonian language, it would also be praise to all our ancestors, their actions and our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U3	Mr Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Finance Committee, I will give the Riigikogu to the proceedings of the Riigikogu a draft decision 'Appointing the representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee'. We are dealing with this at one reading, and that is why the Commission has already decided on the deadline for amendments, which is 27 April at 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have adopted one draft law and one draft decision, and the Bureau will decide if everything is in accordance with the rules to which the Commission is going. May I have your attention, please? Messages. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This Saturday the Question Hour for Riigikogu guests will take place in this Chamber as part of Riigikogu Open Doors Day. So I ask you to bring all the material from your desks and drawers when the hearing is over. Now we can move on to the Thursday, 19 April agenda. We have an item on the agenda and this is alcohol initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party... [[Voices from the floor.]] Thank you. It's a straight question. Checking for presence. We have 75 members of the Riigikogu here. Yes, Mr. Randpere? I'm sorry, Mr. Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U6	Thank you. Still free and close. You mentioned Riigikogu Question Time. Does this mean that the members of the Riigikogu can meet the people, i.e. the people ask and the representatives of the Riigikogu respond? Has the board planned it this way? If not, shouldn't we change that format? The Riigikogu and the government are a little different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U7	Thank you for your question. In Question Time, ministers still meet the guests. This will take place in the Riigikogu Hall and it will be the Open Day of the Riigikogu. If you want to change the format, we need to discuss it. The fact that ministers respond to the visitors of the Riigikogu Question Time is then a topic of discussion for the Bureau. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U8	Thank you. I'd like to, so please discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U9	Thank you. So, we have 75 members of the Riigikogu and no 26.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U10	We will go to the agenda of Thursday, where there is one item on the agenda: the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Law amending the Law on Income Tax, the Social Tax Act and other laws. Rapporteur Member of the Riigikogu Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U11	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, There are quite a few aspects to excise policy. In general, it aims to increase retail prices and thereby reduce consumption, i.e. to influence consumer behaviour. At the same time, when designing excise policy, countries must take into account the prices of neighbouring countries in order to reduce the border trade of their residents. Possible aspects and risks of the shadow economy, state tax revenues, business behaviour, impact on entrepreneurship and international competitiveness of the business sector must also be taken into account. There are therefore many aspects of alcohol policy. Estonia has not taken sufficient account of these aspects in shaping its recent excise policy and the price difference between alcohol and Latvia has doubled. It has become an incentive for consumers to buy excise goods and other goods from Latvia. The government's steps so far have been completely inadequate. Producers estimate that more than twice as much alcohol was sold at the Latvian border in the first quarter of this year than at the same time last year. The state has suffered a significant tax loss and should not expect the problem to resolve itself. The purpose of this draft is to bring excise duties on alcohol to the level where they were at the beginning of 2017 or the beginning of the previous year. Forecasters already estimated at the end of 2015 that the 10% increase in excise duty would be risky, but the increases in excise duties on low alcoholic beverages introduced by the current coalition at the end of 2016 were high above the critical limit of 70% for beer, 45% for wine and fermented alcoholic beverages. Some examples. With this draft excise duty on beer will fall from the current EUR 16,92 to EUR 9,13 per % vol. of alcoholic strength of beer and from the current EUR 25,08 to EUR 23,89 per % vol. of alcoholic strength of alcohol. The new spring forecast published by the Ministry of Finance this week clearly states that the share of Estonian-Latvian border trade in Estonia's purchases is 22,5% this year and the amount of excise duty lost due to this border trade is 62 million euros, with 84 million euros in VAT. It should be pointed out here that the estimates made by the Ministry of Finance have, as a rule, been a little more modest than those of producers, even more modest than those of the Institute of Economics. The forecast also states in black that this year and in the following years the Ministry of Finance is expecting an increase in border trade between Estonia and Latvia. So there is no hope that the problem will resolve itself. It should also be said that in the spring forecast, the Ministry of Finance reduced the forecast for the collection of alcohol excise duty this year by EUR 44 million and by EUR 46 million next year. The result of the failure of excise policy is also that Finns are reducing their purchases in Estonia and the buyers of larger quantities are moving to Latvia. In short, the purpose of this draft is to take steps to limit border trade with Latvia, improve the revenue from the budget and also take public health aspects into account. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you to support this bill. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U12	Thank you, good waitress. Javier in clothing, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U13	Thank you very much. We were able to see the state of public finances this week in the Committee on Monetary Affairs: if labour taxes arrive very well in a rapidly growing economy, excise duties will burn an ever greater hole in the budget. We are already talking about the total impact of far more than 100 million euros, which can be converted either to ERMs or to Tartu highway kilometres. I think everyone in this Chamber will understand that this is a huge amount of money that shows the complete failure of this excise policy. But my question is, do I get it right that, as long as these excise increases were within the limits of reason, 5, 10 or 15% per year, they had a negative effect on alcohol consumption, so that people consumed less than the evil root of it now, in particular, these 70% and 45% excise increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U14	Thank you for that question. In any case, we have seen in the long run that alcohol consumption is declining. People's health behaviour and awareness have improved. People also practice more health sports. In general, alcohol consumption is declining. Of course, when revenue increases, excise policy must also affect the availability of alcohol. As a general rule, excise duty still needs to be increased, given the increase in average incomes and the consumer price index. That is the case, and it must continue. But obviously, the matter was turned over last year when the excise duty on lean alcohol was sharply increased by 70 and 45%. We saw that border trade began to grow sharply. It is true that there was also border trade in 2015, but the volume was 1%. Now, according to the Ministry of Finance, we have reached 22% and border trade is not showing signs of withdrawal. In any case, this draft is a step in the direction of putting a stop to border trade.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U15	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U16	Thank you, good waitress. This is undoubtedly a sensible draft, but I would like you to specify the amount of revenue that was still collected last year due to the incompetent excise policy. Was it 75 million or 100 million? There have been different numbers, but we all realize it's a huge amount. In comparison, you can mention the city of Pärnu's budget for almost two years or look at the government's investment plan. After all, these are completely incomparable sizes that are being tried here to collect sweet taxes and other crap. At the same time, 100 million will simply be transferred to Latvia. Could you elaborate on how this sum will be formed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U17	Last year, the damage was, by reminding me, 55.60 million. This is the difference between previous year's income data and forecasts. This year, this loss will increase to 86 million with VAT. For the first time in its forecast, the Ministry of Finance has also presented the damage caused by border trade in Estonia and Latvia. This year it will be 62 million euros in alcohol duty, with 84 million euros in VAT. If we put another excise duty on it, fuel and tobacco are also items of border trade and other purchases of foodstuffs in particular, but also technical goods, then we will still get over EUR 100 million, perhaps EUR 120 million, perhaps even more, to the detriment of border trade this year. That's 10 million euros a month. Every month we wait to solve this problem, the circa will cause EUR 10 million in damage. After all, this money could be used more effectively, even for health promotion measures. We're going to have $20 million from next year's budget to raise the salaries of the police and the rescuers. Let's put on 10 million and raise 30 million! So the damage is very great.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U18	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress, it turned out nicely that there is no reason to be proud of anything that grows. It is truly amazing to me that although the Ministry of Finance itself is forecasting an increase in border trade between Estonia and Latvia this year, there is nothing to do about it. You brought out that number, the size of 100 million, which we're taking to Latvia. With this money, we could build 30 kilometres from 2 + 2 highways from Pärnu to Tallinn every year. I'm asking you what's your estimate for this year's alcohol excise. Your projections have been considerably more accurate than the government coalition and the Ministry of Finance. While 333 million were expected to receive it a few months ago, it has just been reduced to some 280 million, while 220 million were actually received last year. What's your prognosis for this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U20	Thank you for that question. Of course, I don't make predictions. I rely on expert judgements. But yes, the Ministry of Finance downgraded this year's forecast from 333 million to 286 million. Here is one aspect that must be taken into account, and we also specified this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Ministry of Finance based its forecast on the 10% increase in alcohol duty planned from 1 January 2019. The forecast is not yet taken up by the government's decision to cancel the increase in excise duty on 1 January 2019. The forecast takes into account the fact that in December this year there will be a stockpiling of alcohol products of an amount of EUR 35 million. So we can safely withdraw this amount from this 286 million, assuming that the increase in excise duty on 1 January will be cancelled. Perhaps, based on the data of the Ministry of Finance, this collection will remain in the amount of EUR 250 million and, looking at the estimates of other experts, it is still optimistic. Experts have suggested that this year's receipts cannot be higher than last year, with a size of 222 million euros. It is worth noting here that we have increased excise duty forcefully, but the revenue from excise duty will be received by the State in a smaller volume than in 2016 and even a little less than in 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U21	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Have you also thought about it, as has already been said many times in this Chamber, to physically close the border with Estonia? Clearly, when the border is physically closed, border trade is also restricted. Or is my question too borderline?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U23	Thank you for that question. If I remember correctly, last year, in 2017, the Minister of Social Affairs stepped out and said that the Minister of Finance must take control of this matter, that it is a tax fraud that is taking place, and that the Tax Administration must block border trade. The Minister of Finance, of course, sent this kind of talk after the Socialist Minister's month, it is not possible; we have the European Union; we have a common market. I don't think you meant that closing the border between the two countries very seriously either. The only way to stop border trade is excise policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U24	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, To what extent did you consider the movement of Latvian excise duties here or there in the preparation of this draft, and what effect could this have in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U26	Thank you. At the time we did this draft, it was already known that Latvia would increase excise duty from 1 March. So that's what we were counting on. Our draft, of course, stood here in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for a long time. At the time we prepared it, there had not yet been a study by the Spring Institute of Economics, which made the situation considerably clearer. There was also no forecast by the Ministry of Finance, which now includes the effects of border trade. So today the situation is much clearer. And I dare say that, as the initiators of the bill, we are even more confident that we are moving in the right direction with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U27	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U28	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honorable defender of the bill! The coalition has promised with a large drum roll that future alcohol excises will be reduced. Here, reference has already been made to the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, which says that border trade is still increasing. Could you please specify what this Treasury forecast says about border trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U29	Thank you for that question. The forecast of the Ministry of Finance says the following about border trade. In 2015, the volume of border trade was small, remaining below 1%. In 2016, the first liquor store and purchases were launched at the Latvian border. It is also pointed out that in 2017 the share of beer and other lean alcohol increased as last July excise duties were increased by 70% and 45%. The Ministry of Finance estimates the share of border trade between Estonia and Latvia to 5.3% in 2016, 15.7% last year and 24.5% this year. The amount of excise duty lost due to border trade is 62 million euros this year, with 84 million euros in VAT. And they also say that there will be an increase in the price of Estonian-Latvian border trade in the coming years at a rate of increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U30	Next question. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U31	Thank you, good waitress. Liberals have talked a lot about reducing national regulations, but now they're coming up with another bill. Tell me why you don't use a citizen-centred method like blaming your predecessor. Minister of Finance Tõniste also said the day before yesterday on TV that it is really necessary to say who is responsible and there is nothing to do. Have you not considered the option of simply pointing the finger at the previous government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U32	This, unfortunately, is characteristic of the current government that all of its failures are accused of not knowing who the previous, previous and previous government is. They have even said that we collected too few reserves during the previous economic boom, 2006 to 2007. They're spending these reserves, but they blame the previous government for raising too few reserves ten years ago. In fact, the government should decide because it is very serious. The damage that border trade is causing is still enormous. The public health aspects are also at stake here. And, as I said before, we lose every month that we delay in making these decisions, up to EUR 10 million in excise revenue. I mean, that money could be much more meaningful.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U33	Henn Põllamaas, please ask your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Border trade is expected to occur when the difference in excise duties reaches or exceeds four cents. It's much bigger now. In itself, this bill is absolutely welcome, and it is absolutely right that these insane excise duties should be returned, but I can see that, according to your forecast, there are quite a lot of differences to the detriment of Estonia. Wouldn't it make more sense to take a step back and bring these excise duties either to the same level as Latvia or even to a little lower level, i.e. to reverse this whole process and turn Estonia into a promised land for Latvian vodka tourists?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U35	Thank you. That's a very good question. In fact, there could be an opportunity to look at this draft, to discuss these aspects, between the first and second readings. We did do this bill months ago. New studies have now come and the situation is changing rapidly. That's quite a question. Producers have also said that the fall in excise duties could be even stronger, but we also took public health aspects into account here. In fact, a reasonable balance needs to be found. We cannot take very radical steps because we still have an increase in people's income this year and in the coming years. There is a balance to be found here. We are, indeed, a little far from Latvia's rates, but in any case we are approaching them. This is a step towards a reduction in border trade. The reference to the fourth difference per litre or EUR 4 per hectolitre, the other reference to the 20% difference in excise duty, is to be reduced by a slightly more vigorous step. But, as I said, a reasonable balance must be found here, because public health aspects must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U36	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U37	Good waitress! I have quite a few comments. First of all, that border trade is not a new thing. Border trade has been between Finland and Estonia for decades, as well as between Germany and Denmark, or between Denmark and Germany. In Estonia, border trade at the Latvian border started at least after 1 January 2016. Here's my question. You called it brave, big numbers. Is last year's figure actually the supply outside? This may have been the case in 2016 and 2018, as the tax started later? The second question, however, is more fundamental. Have the drafters and specific authors wondered why we are dealing with the whole problem in such a simple way and we are thinking of only one tax, so-called 'badness' taxation'? Why do we not take into account the entire Latvian tax system, where consumption taxation is not at the forefront? There is also progressive income tax for this year and VAT is lower for certain goods, such as fruit and vegetables. In addition, the entire Latvian social system should be taken into account. Is such a simple approach really the right one?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U38	Thank you. There were many aspects to your question. As far as the first part of your story is concerned, that border trade was earlier, yes, in 2015, Latvia's share of border trade was 1%. This has been historically the case in relations with Finland that Finnish tourists come here and buy excise goods from here. It's been like this for years. You also gave examples from Germany and Denmark. As far as the volumes are concerned, yesterday the figures from the survey commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs came. 39% of people have bought alcoholic beverages from abroad. This volume of border trade is unprecedented in the European Union. The volume of border trade between Denmark and Germany is not that high. You do not find such examples in the European Union at the moment. At the same time, there are no drastic differences between the Latvian and Estonian tax systems. There are different aspects to the game. Their tax rates are comparable to ours, but they collect less tax revenue at these rates, because they have a higher share of the shadow economy, tax compliance is lower. There are huge differences in tax administration compared to Estonia. But the structure of tax revenues they have is the same as we do, and consumption taxes are the main sources of revenue for the budget. That's right. I think I answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U39	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U40	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The results of the market survey published yesterday confirm that alcohol consumption has decreased both among the so-called "alcotourists" and among those who have not brought alcohol from abroad. The initial assessment by the Institute for Health Development was that there were 50 fewer alcohol deaths in Estonia in 2017 than in 2016 was probably the case. There was some talk today about the balance between public health and excise duties. The question sounds strange, but how many million are worth a human life?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U41	Yeah, that's the right question. Yesterday, the study commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs from Turku-Studies AS was indeed introduced. So what do the results say? 39% of people have brought alcohol from abroad or had it delivered. 39%! Of those who have consumed alcohol from abroad, 17% believe that their alcohol consumption has increased. 29% say it's been reduced. About 50% says nothing's changed. I noticed that the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs also said that consumption had decreased. But let's wait! The results of the Conjuncture Institute study in May are also available on the alcohol market and alcohol consumption. I think the picture's gonna be a lot more accurate in May.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U42	Question two, Toomas Kivimägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! A cross-border excise policy has, in fact, a much wider socio-economic impact, and its impact is not merely fiscal. Without any doubt, dozens of land shops have been closed because of a failed excise policy and the possibility of obtaining certain services has disappeared. There is no point in hiding your head in the sand: in many country shops, alcohol turnover actually accounts for 20, 30 or 40% of the total turnover. The conclusion that alcohol is now less consumed is unambiguously refuted by the same study that has been repeatedly referred to. 39% of all Estonians either bought the alcohol themselves or had it purchased in Latvia. What is the wider economic damage of a failed alcohol policy as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U44	Thank you, that is a very correct question. I have to admit, I was surprised by the information from the Conjuncture Institute that about 40 country shops have been closed in our southern counties in the last year. Of course, it has a major socio-economic impact. If the store still disappears, it will in any case affect the lives of local people, and that means that we are moving towards peripheralization. These shopkeepers themselves do not want to admit that their economic performance depends solely on the sale of alcohol, but excise goods account for a significant part of their turnover. If a 30-40% drop out of turnover... After all, the shopkeeper has fixed costs: rent, delivery, electricity, water and everything else that comes with it. Just like that, when a big chunk of junk falls off, shopping becomes economical and has very sad socio-economic consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U45	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I listened with great interest last week on the radio to an interview with the new chairman of your party. The host did not receive an answer to the question whether your party's policy would result in a future bottle of vodka going to cost less in the store and thereby improving the availability of alcohol among Estonian people. I am now taking this opportunity to ask, because a lot is being said about alcohol: should your policy result in less costs for bottles of wine?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U47	Thank you for that question. Neither excise policy can aim to improve access to alcoholic beverages. I began my presentation with the recognition that there are many aspects to excise policy. The first aspect was that the introduction of excise duties is still aimed at increasing retail prices. And if we solve this mess that you've caused here in the meantime, then we can go in the normal direction. Alcohol excise duties should rise in line with the rise in people's incomes, given the rise in average wages and the rise in the consumer price index. We've just crossed the border and created border trade. This is a problem that needs to be solved. And it needs to be done now, not expected that the situation will resolve itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U48	Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U49	Thank you. Good waitress! The answer to the previous question is that there has been a fall in alcohol prices due to border trade, although excise duties have risen. But another alternative was proposed here, apart from blaming the predecessors: it is that Estonia could become a country of cheap alcohol. What do you think of this idea that we could be a more favorable country than Latvia and become, as one of the questioners mentioned, the promised country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U50	Thank you for that question. I don't think that's a good idea. Until border trade began, Estonian alcohol policy moved in a sensible direction. Our 5- or 10% annual increase in excise duty accounted for income growth and the rise in the consumer price index. Estonia should certainly not be a country famous for cheap alcohol in the European Union. There were still countries with much lower rates of excise duty before border trade took place. Excise policy must be sensible and take into account a wide range of aspects. Indeed, the overall objective is to increase retail prices, but there are other aspects involved, including the practice of other countries, especially neighbouring countries. Of course, excise duty is also a source of tax revenue and the beverage industry is part of the economy. So a lot of aspects have to be taken into account. From this reasonable point of view, which we had before the border trade took place, we are now far removed. It is high time to bring excise policy back on track.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U51	Toomas Jürgenstein, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U52	Thank you. My question does not concern excise policy, but consumption. I may have a strange circle of acquaintances, but among my acquaintances there are a lot of people who say that they do not buy beer from Latvia, Estonia or Finland, but they do so themselves. Plastic mast barrels and very different starter kits have emerged that can quickly make different quality beers. Very many people have started making beer for themselves, not for production purposes, but for themselves. Do you have any idea how much this trend, which I believe has developed over the last three or four or five years, has affected alcohol purchases in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U53	Thank you. That's what I don't have any record of. If you want to know more about this, look at the research results of the Institute of Economics. There should be more detailed data on the alcohol market and the alcohol consumption survey in May, and maybe they say something about it. But I don't have any information about making a home like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U54	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask for a chair of speech from the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U55	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance dealt with this draft at two regular meetings on 2 and 17 April. And now the details. On 2 April, Mr Sõerd presented the views of the initiators, the whole bill. The government representative then received the floor, who repeated these thoughts in a letter from the Ministry of Finance to the Finance Committee. I quote the following paragraph from this letter: 'Latvia's border trade started with the difference in the excise duty on spirits already in force in 2015. While the excise duty on strong alcohol in Estonia was higher by 5.52 euros per litre of absolute alcohol in 2015, the difference between the excise duty rate proposed in the draft and that in Latvia in March 2018 is 7.19 euros [---]. The excise tax revenue from 2017 also accounts for a major part of the excise duty on spirits. As the difference in the excise duty on spirits remains, restoring the special treatment of lean alcohol compared to other alcohols does not help to achieve the objective of reducing border trade. ' After that, we started a great debate. I will now highlight the main points of this debate. It was asked whether changes in the rates of excise duty in Latvia had had an impact on our border trade. It was said that the analysts of the Ministry of Finance are analysing the impact of the change in excise rates in Latvia last year and the expected impact this year. The assessment will be completed in mid-April. They wanted to know what other tests were being carried out. It was said that the Estonian Conjuncture Institute will soon publish an analysis of the impact on consumption. It will then be possible to consider which decisions will be taken in the future. It was pointed out that statistics are being compiled, which are difficult to compare with the statistics on previous receipts, as the behaviour and situation of consumers in trade has changed a lot. The projected decrease in consumption can be compared to the actual change in consumption, which may also be a decrease. It was just a line like that. A representative of the Ministry noted that last year's meeting with representatives of small shops pointed out that the reason for closing shops was not only expensive alcohol, but a general difference in food and other commodity prices. It was asked whether the representative of the initiator of the draft is aware of how many small shops in South Estonia have closed their doors because of new built shops. The answer was that there was no comprehensive overview, but the same number that the previous speaker mentioned during the debate: about 40 shops were closed. They asked how much alcohol excise duty was collected in February. It was replied that the data would be transmitted in writing. The Commission also raised the question of why these data have recently been so difficult to access. In the past, the official sites gave an overview of the whole picture at a certain time. There was no answer to that. There was an interest in how much budget revenue would be if the massive alcohol advertising campaign that alcohol producers are doing to support border trade was excluded. It was said that protest purchases would not last forever, but people at the border who have low transport costs would continue to buy favourable goods if prices differ. The representative of the initiator of the draft act admitted that the closure of small shops was partly caused by many other factors, but the increase in excise duty is the main reason. If part of the turnover falls away, the store will have a problem. There are also growing and more organised forms of border trade. The meeting recalled the meeting held last year with small shopkeepers. It was a rather solid event involving representatives of several organisations. But I'm not going to introduce what's happening again, that's what's been said. The opinion was expressed that all data show that lean alcohol consumption has not decreased and asked what problem the increase in excise duty is intended to solve. It was said that the aim was to reduce consumption and increase budget revenue. There was an interest in what is currently the share of border trade and what is expected by the end of the year. It was replied that on 16 April this year the Ministry of Finance will publish its forecast. Then came the procedural decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be sent to the Chamber by today, 19 April and that the chairman of the committee be appointed as co-rapporteur. My colleague, Priit Sibul, suggested that this could be limited and a decision on the procedure could be taken later, for example, on 17 April, when we have been able to look at the forecast. The decision was consensual. All right, that's it for April 2nd. On 17 April, i.e. this Tuesday, there was a small debate that was not related to the principles of the draft. In fact, we learned about the forecast and the current receipts of excise duties, and the whole conversation focused on it. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that, when compared to February last year, the receipts would be EUR 5.9 million less. This is due to the stocks collected. Smaller receipts have been made in the past, with even greater volumes, such as up to 8 million. The budget revenue forecast for 2018 has been reduced: the current rates are expected to raise EUR 286,5 million. The issue of the elimination of the excise duty increase was discussed. If there is no increase in excise duty on 1 January 2019, the withdrawal of the incentive to mobilize alcohol should lead to a reduction in this year's receipts. This is what Mr Sõerd told you in one of his answers to you. One member of the Commission pointed out from the spring forecast the amount of excise duty lost this year due to border trade: EUR 62 million, which together with additional VAT amounts to a total of EUR 84 million. It was assumed that if alcohol was driven, all kinds of other goods would also be purchased and that the impact of border trade would be more than EUR 100 million. There was also the question of the impact of border trade on the receipt of excise duties on fuel. Around 26 million excise duties on fuel will be lost this year due to border trade. A campaign in February was also asked about inviting people to travel together to Latvia to buy alcohol. We all remember this great event. Question: is the impact of this action visible in the statistics on border trade? Answer: It has been studied. The Tax and Customs Board compiles short-term border crossing statistics and the number of short-term border crossings did not differ from the number of other weekend crossings in February. It can be concluded that people who would have gone there would have done so together this time. It's more fun in the gang. For more information, the short-term border crossings on Saturday are also fixed with a camera, which lasts 15 to 60 minutes. On 3 February, for example, there were 1628 of the total 6872 border crossings. It's a stable ratio: there's about 25% or less of them. And the further away from the beginning of the year, the greater this relationship is. Finally, it was asked to clarify that, if the draft were found to benefit, what would happen to the difference between the rates of excise duty on lean and strong alcohol, which was reduced by the 2016 amendments. It was said that the previous 2.6 times the difference in excise duty rates on strong and lean alcohol would be recovered. At the same time, it was considered that these rates of excise duty were not comparable to one because the products were different. It all took quite a while, but the subject is sensitive and in the Commission I even had to apologise for the misused word. So far, our debates went, and I reported to you in full. The decision was also adopted on 17 April: it was decided to reject the draft. There were 6 votes for and 3 against, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U56	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U57	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President, I understand from what you have said that the issue of advertising was not addressed in the Commission, only about raising and lowering excise duty. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U58	Thank you, dear colleague. Advertising was only discussed in connection with this February event, where the Estonian media made every effort to ensure that the maximum number of people would go to Latvia to buy alcohol. No other advertising issues were raised in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U59	Thank you. No further questions for you. I will open negotiations for the political groups. From the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U60	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft could be supported today for four reasons. Until this morning, the reasons were public health, the state budget and the Estonian economy. At this point, the coalition could also give some thought to what the survey of Turku Research AS says. The market survey as a criterion of truth was already mentioned. Soots, 6% for you, and IRL, 4% for you is still a very low figure. There's probably too much alcohol in the blood, but the politics you're making now are not only on wheels, but also on the feet. He's moving out on you. He's not just going to Latvia to buy, he's moving away from you. The idea of excise policy should be to increase the price of alcohol. The result of your policy is that the average price of alcohol on the market has probably fallen, at least for a large number of vulnerable segments, which are largely made up of a more price sensitive society in South Estonia, as well as young people. Another market research survey shows that young people have started to buy more cheap alcohol and has a long-term devastating effect on public health. Admittedly, as I have already said in my question, you have the opportunity to blame the previous government. Thomas Tõniste is now on this job and he says there's nothing he can do. Similarly, Sven Sester says that he was an asshole in the previous government, he was no one, he just raised excises. But no finance minister should say that. None of the finance ministers should say that the others are guilty, he's watching, he's spinning his thumbs, and then he's pointing his finger at someone else. However, these excise duties were introduced into the government in 2015 by the specific Minister of Finance of the IRL. And even if he had government support, he has not had support in practice. The risks that were already seen at the time have materialised. The excise rise schedule was already out of line then, and now seeing the proliferation of border trade, seeing the flow of cheap alcohol and the outflow of money from the country, we should deal with the correction of errors, not the accusation of others, as the Minister of Finance is doing today. I remember the debates in 2015 well. I was a bit of an outsider at the time, because Sven Sester had the briefcase, but the experts were interviewed, and these forecasters said that it was the ultimate limit, it's risky, but it's the ultimate limit. Then the new government came and began to break the stagnation. And what was done with the 2016 cluster bill, which was launched on 1 July 2017, was a disaster. The chitchat that lies behind the decisions of the previous government should be stopped. The mistakes that were made at the time should be corrected, and it would be a long time ago. To say that border trade is because the excise duty on strong alcohol was then decided as such is wrong because the strong alcohol has import restrictions and every drinker is dissipating the risk: he brings both lean and strong stuff to the country as much as he can fit in the car. And it is precisely the huge difference in the price of lean alcohol that has multiplied border trade. There's been some talk about when the border trade started. Border trade has indeed been already in the Russian era, it has always been. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U61	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U62	We do not denigrate the phenomenon itself. We say that once border trade has multiplied, if it causes clear economic damage, if it damages the budget and if it harms public health, then it has crossed the border. And you can see that from every point of view. It is, of course, very dangerous to think that we are turning the winch the other way around, that we are the promised land where cheap stuff can be bought, and the money comes in. Now that's devastation. It is a devastation of public health and it is, in fact, a devastation of morals and the reputation of the state if a country with a higher standard of living would start offering less alcohol than its neighbour with a lower standard of living. Latvia is clearly a poorer country than Estonia and it is quite natural that the difference between excise duties on alcohol remains in the interests of public health. Estonia has not advocated any offshore economy for a long time. It was the 1990s' idea that as long as the money came in, by any method. No! The world has changed a lot, and we should be smarter. We have to leave the excise difference in Latvia, but it has to be one that takes away the incentive to go mass in Latvia only in order to buy vodka and beer. So these alternatives don't work. No blame, no plan to make yourself a cheap country with alcohol. The excise duty itself is a very noble liver, but like any medicine, the excise is poison when it is over dosed. And overdosed it is. We are not going back to 2015 levels with these rates simply because Latvia has increased its excise duty in the meantime. Finland has also increased excise duties, although it has liberalised trade. So I suggest you just come to your senses, soberly decide and support this bill. I see we already have Jaanus Marrandi's voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U63	Thank you, Jürgen Ligi! On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I would like to ask Mr Stalnukhin to speak. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U64	Ladies and gentlemen, A very wise Pole once formulated an idea that the length of a minute depends on which side of the toilet you stand on. This also applies to border trade. Border trade is great if we sell alcohol in large volumes to those who come to us, and it is bad when our people buy from a country next to us. I can agree with that: yes, it is a rather poor phenomenon, but it points to the fact that it has a link not only to the price of alcohol but also to incomes. And if the income of an Estonian, a person living in Estonia, is higher than on average in a neighbouring country, then we also have prices higher than in a neighbouring country. If the Latvian's income is lower, then prices will also be lower. Everyone's addicted to each other. The claim that Estonians will move away from Estonia because of the price of vodka indicates that they do not believe in their own people. Rather, Latvians are now moving to Estonia in order to receive Estonia's salary in order to receive Estonian social security. It's been written in many places. Are we trying to achieve the goals set? For example, we have this extremely important goal that Estonia has an average consumption of pure alcohol of less than eight litres per person. Are we going to move towards this, knowing that every year the Estonian state loses half a billion kroons because it happens a lot of bad things when people get drunk? That's the question. I would like to remind you of this latest review of the market research, which clearly states that 35% of the people who drink alcohol estimate that their consumption has decreased in 2017 compared to the previous year. And only 7% say it's increased. I'm not a sociologist, I don't know how these studies are done, but it's information you might believe. 77% of the population wouldn't take a trip to their homes for less expensive alcohol. It describes the people very well: people understand what and how. They hardly know that 37 litres of absolute alcohol could be bought at the average pay in 2012, but almost 60 litres already in 2016. There is a question of whether we want to increase this distinction further and whether we should do something every year to make people drink more, more and more. The health aspect is very important! Now from our border shops. Yeah, they're closing, but I want to remind you of the same round table that was held at the end of last year, where the representative of the small shops got hot when he had the opportunity to turn to the representative of the big supermarkets. His accusation was very direct, I would even say that it sounded like a child's mouth: "You will do everything to make sure that we little ones die out! " But remember your city, in Tallinn, to your district of residence! Remember! I saw two small shops in the window of my mother's apartment in the 1990s, but within a radius of about 300 meters, there were four or five. None of them are now. It was once called a natural process, and now there is some kind of struggle against the border countries, behind the closure of the shops. It's not like that, it's the logic of life. As far as alcohol is concerned, imagine that I am addressing the previous speakers here, that there is no school in the village, no club, no constables, no doctor or chapel! There is practically nothing, there is only a store with 30% of its turnover in alcohol. Is that what we have to protect? You should defend the return of institutions that truly hold people to every small place: educational, social and cultural institutions. Vodka can only hold on to people with a certain lifestyle, and no one else. Yes, now there is a predictable downfall, and that is a really serious problem. These 84 million are issues that the government urgently needs to resolve. Personally, I believe that this solution will be found. We can already see in the RES what opportunities are offered to overcome it. Going back to the 2015 system doesn't solve any of the problems - none! So the Centre Party Group does not support this draft. We support its rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-19_U65	Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! There will be no more speeches by the representatives of the political groups. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading. Let's start preparing the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 42 members of the Riigikogu in favour of rejecting the bill and against 27 members of the Riigikogu. The draft has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's trial is over. I invite you all to the Riigikogu Open Doors Day on Saturday! Closure of the sitting at 11.14 a.m.
