ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu! Honourable members of the government! Question Time. Incoming check, please! 37 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. The members of the government are Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. I will give an opportunity to ask a more specific question, and I will remind you, just in case, that there is one minute to ask the question and two minutes to answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U2	The first questioner is Martin Helme, the first answerer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! We have been exposed last week by a Russian agent on the Estonian military leadership and it has been presented as a huge job. I think this is rather a very worrying situation. What makes it even worse is that both the heads of intelligence and the members of the government refuse to discuss adequately the motivation for betrayal. We all know that Metsava has been advertised as a poster boy for integration, and he has been promoted because, yet, there was one of our own Russians to be high up. But it turns out he was in another country. Does the government draw any conclusions from this? Does intelligence draw any conclusions from this and begin to apply a special, tighter additional control...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U5	...for people from this background?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U6	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the very honourable Riigikogu, first of all a beautiful and successful new session for you! In any case, treason is one of the most serious forms of crime. It is extremely regrettable what has happened. When you said the word 'viction of work', I want to say that in my opinion, in this case, the defence police, the prosecutor's office and the authorities of the Defence Forces have worked well together and the crime has been discovered. In any case, this is a clear message for everyone: who goes on such a path that he wants to betray the Estonian state, sooner or later it will be discovered. You asked if any of this had been learned. I am actually concerned that on 5 September, the Estonian Conservative People's Party published a press release on its website on the Blue Awakening of the Youth Movement, which states that treason could have been prevented if the Defence Forces and the state's power structures had been critical of the officer's non-Estonian origin. The Blue Wake-up considers that foreign origin must be seen as an aggravating circumstance when applying for access to state secrets, which requires further loyalty control. While EKRE's parents, more experienced members, could be expected to be balanced and call young people to order, the chairman of the party Mart Helme confirmed the same ideas and beliefs a few days later. The honourable member of the Riigikogu called for the recruitment of high officials of another nation to be made more difficult and for stricter control and called all Estonian citizens of another nation cancers created by the Kremlin. Paragraph 12 of the Constitution reads: "Everything is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. ' I hope this is one of the lessons to be learned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U7	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U8	Thank you. Prime Minister! Yeah, well, I don't think it says in that constitution that you can't discriminate against anyone for being stupid, making them numb. The talk that you have just spoken, and the talk that all our official propaganda is saying, is simply stupid, making it numb. We refuse to see the risks. We've got about 20 agents or scouts busted, 14 or 15 of whom have been Russians. If there are no conclusions at present that the person whose father and grandfather have also fought against the independence of Estonia is the motivation of his nation, an important part of his identity, then people in high places with security sensitive information that is not Estonians are an additional risk. If we don't draw any conclusions from this, you're basically gonna direct us to the next major reconnaissance catastrophes. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U9	Thank you. I will continue with what the Constitution says. It says that incitement to national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination is prohibited and punishable by law. It is also prohibited and punishable by law to incite hatred, violence and discrimination between social strata. What you bring out is, in my opinion, appalling when you say that part of the Estonian population is not suitable for one, another or third reason. As I said, treason has nothing to do with the person's home language or native language. Treason is linked to personal qualities, unfortunately negative personal qualities. As I said, this is a very regrettable case, but in any case, on the contrary to you and your party's point of view, I recognise the Estonian defence police, the prosecutor's office, but also the administration of the Defence Forces that this matter has been discovered and removed. In my opinion, the fact that the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik has also set up an appropriate committee, led by the Chancellor of the Ministry of Defence, and that the Commission must assess the damage suffered by the actions of the Estonian traitor shows the very operational behaviour after the incident came to light. I think that undermining Estonian society from the surface of a nation and linking it to treason is very wrong and, unfortunately, it must be said that it is also a very dangerous step. I hope that the supporters of the EKRE and your voters will want to see Estonia as a strong state, a united state, not a broken and demolished state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U10	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You don't understand anything. And obviously for political reasons, because your party is known to have a cooperation agreement with United Russia, the majority of your electorate is made up of people of Russian nationality, and it is clear that in this situation you refuse to face the truth. Have you read a book like the Mitrochin Archive? Now, read it! Then you will learn how Russian intelligence services work, especially in areas that are of geopolitical or other interest to them. Read this book and maybe it will dispel your political darkness literally. In addition, let me make a note of that. You have an irritating habit of putting words in your mouth to your political opponents. We have not betrayed the country, unlike those people who worked in high positions in the Russian nation. Do you acknowledge the fact that the Russian nation is a moment of additional risk and this has nothing to do with human rights or the Constitution? This is not discrimination if they are more closely controlled...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U12	The time for questioning is long gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U13	Do you recognize this reality?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U14	Please stay within one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U15	Thank you. I think you are undermining the Estonian state. I am sure to thank you for your reading recommendation. And I always take the recommendations of the members of the Riigikogu seriously, including yours. I also give you a modest suggestion: if you look seriously at both the Constitution and the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act for a moment, which says that a member of the Riigikogu must be free on the one hand in his mandate, but he must stand up for all regions, not only for his constituency, and he must stand up for all Estonian residents, then the idea that a member of the Riigikogu receives from these documents is, in my opinion, very important. And I believe that in the words you used to ask your question, by categorizing people whose home language is either Russian or Estonian, saying that some are suitable here and others are not suitable here, and if Russian-speaking people want to apply, they have to go through some more denser sieves than Mart or Jüri of Estonian nationality, for example, it is certainly not a fundamental principle of the rule of law or a democratic state. In this hall, too, your own colleagues are Russian-speaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U16	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U17	Krista Aru is asking Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! The wages of our patrol officers, rescuers and border guards are disgracefully low. You have made it one of your priorities in the negotiations on the next year's budget to achieve a significant wage increase in these agencies. Yesterday, a new economic forecast was published. What are the specific amounts you are going to ask for in budget negotiations for patrol officers, rescuers and border guards? Can you tell us what your request is?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U19	Thank you. First of all, I would also like to wish the honourable Riigikogu a good start to the season. But now, honourable Member, Mrs Aas, to the answer to your question. It is true that when we talk about what will be our greatest challenge in the area of internal security in the coming years, it will be to keep our people and recruit new people. One of the main motivations for these people is income. As early as spring, in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy, we also agreed with good coalition partners on a number of issues concerning wages. As a result of the RES negotiations and the preparation of the draft state budget, the following have now been agreed: In order to raise the salaries of the Police and Border Guard Board, I have asked EUR 12.9 million for the coming year, which will be able to raise the basic salary of all the employees of the PBGB by 10%, on average, but certainly will not do so. It is the front line workers, especially the patrol police and border guards, who are the most affected. Perhaps if the minimum basic salary is 1075 now, then it will be EUR 1280 in the future. This is minimal, but it is regionally quite different because there are also regional charges. For example, in Ida-Virumaa, a patrol cop gets 1700 euros when he starts working, in Tallinn a little less and in the West or, say, in the south, where the need to recruit people is less, a little different. And in a hurry, because I'm running out of time for this question, then... I'm gonna answer an additional question because I'm full of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U20	Krista Aru, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U21	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'm Krista Aru, not Aas. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] And now I would like to ask you another question. You mentioned, really in a very hurry, these average recommended wage increases, which should be achieved by an average basic salary without a performance fee, but I ask for more. In the case of the Rescue Board, it is actually very important that we ensure that we are able to save. Are you, and how clearly, now that we are raising people's salaries, negotiating the resources needed to ensure and maintain their ability to save, given that people are inevitably starting to retire quickly as they age, precisely the group that is now capable of working?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U22	Thank you. First of all, I'm truly sorry! Since there is a Mrs. Aas in the area of Homeland Administration, I was wrong. Forgive me! I have to tell you, quickly as a detour, that it happens to me almost every day even today a journalist turned to me again 'Mr. Jaan Anvelt'. I don't take it very seriously, I'm used to it. But to come to your question, which is very well raised and very right, I would like to say that it is on the side of the rescuers that I am talking about the rescuers, not the rescue officers, who are also working in a large motor vehicle, that the pay rise of 23.6% will come next year. Perhaps we are moving to the fact that the average salary, without any extra charge, will always result from the normal schedule, because people will have to agree between themselves, who will work on the weekend, who will work at night, etc., will be EUR 1000, as I promised in spring. Certainly, if you add all kinds of extra charges, we have taken into account that 11% will still be there, so EUR 1100 to EUR 1150. Yes, it is not what we would like right now, but it is a big leap and it can be said that in Estonia's recent history, it is the first time we have raised the wages of rescue officers and rescuers at all. As far as the ability to save is concerned, that's one of the bases. In recent years, we have bought good technology through various funds, we have also put 3 million in the state budget each year for the purchase of equipment to maintain our rescue capacity. But, again, it's human. Fortunately, I dare say to you that by looking at the latest entrance tests and admissions to the Internal Defence Academy, the police have had about 3.5 to 4 people on a single position, depending on whether higher education or vocational education, it is about 2. So young people have a wish. It is our duty here to guarantee them a social guarantee, and the other thing is certainly equipment. I'm relatively optimistic because the difference, 150 million missing, is starting to decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U23	If it's any consolation to the questioner and the respondent, I'll say I was in the evening paper Siim Nestor last night, again, so... Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U24	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Volunteer rescuers will also help us ensure our survival. This is an important human resource. Volunteer rescuers went through a lot of trouble, collected support signatures for their raise, and went through different political forces. Now can you tell me what kind of money you're going to negotiate for a voluntary savior's payroll? They have another very big problem: the maintenance of technology and buildings is expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U25	Thank you. There should be one thing to settle right now: volunteers have never had a salary, that is what distinguishes volunteers from professionals. However, there is State support with different components. For example, there are many components of the so-called bounty, trips, numbers of trips, etc. Prevention is one of the components I've brought in over the last year. Again, this was already agreed in the electoral programme and we have also allocated these amounts, each year half a million additional funding to increase these components. In the field, volunteers have contributed more, thanks to a significant increase in the amount, to the cost of a visit to one family at risk almost ten times. For example, the same principle that professional transport equipment is passed on to volunteers, but it is certainly not forced. Once again, I stress that it is voluntary. There's been a lot of negotiations about what kind of machine you want. Again, in the case of these, let's say, new old machines, a ten-year-old rescue car is not really a very old part of the half-million that has also come, i.e. there is no basic funding, including the organisation of a certain repair base by the Rescue Board. I must certainly stress that, in the case of voluntary rescuers, local authorities who support this system also have an important role to play in helping to maintain and maintain their property, for example, alongside the state. I dare say that very many local authorities are also actively doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U26	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U27	Next, Jürgen Ligi asks, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U28	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Last year, we proposed to move the Estonian school and kindergarten to the Estonian language and to transform it into a single system, to end the isolation. Your coalition partners, named Marina Kaljurand, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Rainer Vakra, have made very keen assessments of this, called it splitting, intimidation, provocation, fighting their children, and so on. On the other hand, the IRL has called it cynical, talked about teaching the Estonian language. Now, the last thing their chairman said is that he wouldn't hand his children over to the experiment. Please tell me what your government's policy is in this area. Do you agree with a common education system in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U29	Thank you. First of all, thank you for raising this issue in Question Time. I think it is very positive, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi, that you are concerned about language learning, better learning of the Estonian language. In my opinion, this also shows in the best sense your courage and maturity to move forward on this subject. If you were the Minister of Education, maybe you didn't have those opportunities. With regard to the current coalition, I dare say that it has been very important for both the Socialists and the Fatherland and the Centre Party to support, improve, raise the quality of the Estonian language and not only in sentences or on paper, but also in real activities. I thought it was very sympathetic that you called the education axis, the first one. This is it, in my opinion, where we must, in the best sense, raise the level of ambition, kindergartens. In the current government, we have foreseen a real program in kindergartens to bring a teacher to each group who speaks in Estonian in Russian kindergartens. After all, it has also received 1.5 million funding for next year, and it will start from autumn this year. This is a programme that provides for a professional Estonian-language teacher to each group of kindergartens with a Russian language. The second step that the government in office has taken is that in the new academic year at least 150 kindergarten and general education teachers in Ida-Virumaa will receive free B2 and C1 level Estonian language training in order to pass the required exam. The same Estonian-language houses are also being launched. All of this contributes to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U30	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U31	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I was very hoping that you would not step on this rake again, and instead of speaking Estonian, you would not talk about learning Estonian. Already last year's Human Development Report emphasised that this is not about studying Estonian or even learning languages, but about co-learning, i.e. not about the language of instruction, but about co-learning, learning in Estonian. Once again, please answer the question: do you agree that the Estonian education system, from kindergarten to kindergarten, should be turned into Estonian and the separation should be broken to get rid of the problems that also extend to security. Do not underestimate the question that the statistical link between treason and isolation does exist. It's just that you can't attribute treason to anyone on the basis of the language. It was a little bit of an answer to your previous questioner. But tell me if you are in favour of joining the Estonian language, the Estonian education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U32	Thank you. What you have now highlighted is parallel to the question of Mart Helme, President of the EKRE. There are more parallels between you and the EKRE. And I understand that. But I think that you yourself, on your current question, said that it could never be brought on a national basis, that it was a result of personal characteristics. Whatever language someone is speaking, it's not decisive in this case. Sincerely, I think so. Now this education issue. I think we have one goal. This goal is actually to go on with the much better quality of learning the Estonian language. If you are talking about a community school or a school where Estonian and Russian students study together, we already have these examples on the Estonian educational landscape. Like Kunda, like Kehtna, etc. I think it is important that we do everything to do this, in fact, this signal from the Russian community is coming, and it is positive that we want to get our children to study in the Estonian education system. When we talk about schools, when we talk about primary school, the desire to put your child in an Estonian-language school is increasingly on the rise. The problem is, maybe not enough children can be admitted to these schools. The question is, do we have enough teachers and do we have enough teaching materials? That's all we really do every day. In any case, I believe that the child's well-being depends on the quality of the Estonian education system, including the education of the Estonian language, and in any case it must be supported with two hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U33	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I think there are a lot of practical details here when it comes to the transition to full Estonian-language learning. Does the government also have any estimates of how many teachers are needed and how much more money is needed? I think the 1.5 million you're talking about right now is a whole other level thing. How long can it take? Moreover, it is likely that if, for example, Estonian and Russian-speaking children are in a single community and are completely transferred to Estonian-speaking education, you need to see what the relationship between children should be in order for it to work at all, because there is probably some proportion of the collective, in which it is not possible to switch to one language if the dominant language is quite different.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U35	Thank you. We have indeed set ourselves a very ambitious goal. As I also said to the honourable member of the Riigikogu Jürgen in answering the question, the same program, a professional Estonian teacher in any group of Russian-language kindergarten, should mean over 600 people, because one person is needed in all Russian-language kindergarten groups. That's how we take off. In this sense, you are absolutely right that EUR 1.5 million will not be covered. Kindergarten is one side, but I think it's very important, let's say, the starting point in this chain or chain. When a person completes the 12th grade, he or she has a good or very good Estonian language and language skills cannot be an obstacle to higher education or to vocational education, or to the acquisition of a profession. From there comes the labour market. That's what we do. Certainly these more accurate analyses, if you ask how much this means for basic school and upper secondary school, can be done and the amounts calculated. I believe it is best to ask this question to the Ministry of Education and Research. So if you ask me what the relationship would be in the future, how many students with Russian native language or Estonian native language could be in school, then I think the direction towards which to move, along with specific activities, is, of course, correct. This does not mean, in my view, that we should finally get to the point of losing, for example, French lyceum or English College. The question arises as to whether there are any other languages that remain. For example, we know that there are two schools in the capital that have a German slope.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U36	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U37	Asks Mart Helme, answers the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have come up with a proposal in the Ministry of Justice that prisoners with a lighter sentence should be entitled to vote. My question is not about questioning this right. But how do you explain its practical implementation? Are prisoners taken to a cell from the ballot box, or are they taken to the polling station with a convoy? Do you have an appointment or an appointment this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U39	Thank you, Honourable Asker! My position is that the principle of the prohibition of the right to vote of prisoners, as the Constitution allows, must be maintained in the Estonian state. This has been the case in Estonia throughout the period after the release. In 2015, the Supreme Court issued a judgment stating that the outright ban on the right of the prisoners to vote is unconstitutional. Therefore, there is a real risk that in the context of the next elections to the Riigikogu the Supreme Court may lift the ban on the right of the election of these insane prisoners, and there may be a situation where criminals who committed serious crimes, including traitors, will decide on the political future of the state and the country. I'm sure you can't afford that. For this reason, I have proposed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of Parliament an idea that, in the minimum way, by granting the right to vote to a few dozen persons, it is possible to maintain the right to vote ban on 2000. I'm sure you can find different combinations here. If the political forces of the parliament consider it necessary not to do so in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to risk the possible conduct of the Supreme Court based on its 2015 decision, there will be no change. In this case, the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Justice do not wish to submit any such draft law to Parliament. How would this election take place? Just as today, the right to vote exists, for example, in detention centres or in custody, but not in court. It is probably possible that, in the case of these dozens of persons, if Parliament agrees to do so, the procedure will look exactly the same that the procedure will be carried out with the ballot box. Certainly in the case of these 20 persons, when their right to vote is realised, it is just as with the hundreds of persons currently in custody who have not been convicted in court that no one is going to carry them mass to polling stations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U40	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U41	Thank you. I have an additional question. Will they also be subject to pre-choice and e-choice procedures and how will this be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U42	Thank you. As I pointed out, the Ministry of Justice and my firm conviction are this: the principle that the ban on the right of the prisoners to vote in the Estonian state is maintained must remain to pay. There is a risk that in the light of the 2015 Supreme Court ruling, the Supreme Court may declare it unconstitutional and so all persons acquire the right to choose. This threat must be mitigated. This is my duty of due diligence, because I think, in the interests of justice and the rule of law, it is reasonable to assume that persons who have raised their hands against the people of this or another country, or their property, should not actually participate in the formation of political power. As regards the exercise of the right to vote in pre-elections and electronic elections, all those types of elections currently held by persons who are in custody but have not been convicted in court, or are in detention facilities, would apply to this addition, because it is necessary to take into account this restriction so that they cannot move freely in space.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U43	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U44	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Minister of Justice! Will you help me refresh my memory of this Supreme Court case? Am I right to remember that the Supreme Court based its decision mainly on some international standards? Maybe it wasn't so much a dispute based on the Estonian constitution, but a dispute about international conventions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U45	Thank you. You're quite right. Since the Estonian Constitution itself gives rise to the right to restrict the electoral rights of detainees, the European Court of Human Rights has found in some judgments that an outright ban is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. On the basis of this practice, the Estonian state has not considered it reasonable or necessary to realise it on the basis of its legal perspective. I have shared this view when I was chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and rejected the requests in this regard. The situation has now changed, as the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which enforces the European Convention on Human Rights, are not directly enforceable as concrete changes to the Estonian legal order or laws. But the situation has changed precisely because the Estonian Supreme Court, with its reference, has indeed taken the opposite view of this convention if the outright ban adopted by the Estonian legislator provides for.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U46	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U47	Küllik's Hatter asks, Home Secretary Andres Anvelt answers. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U48	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! At national level, we plan to build almost simultaneously two large objects: one is Rail Baltic and the other is the eastern border. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have discussed the issue of the eastern border more thoroughly during the summer, and some MPs have also asked you written questions. The big question remains: are the current estimates, which have risen from EUR 70 million to EUR 320 million two and a half years ago, still valid? Why is the difference so great? The difference is that this 320 million has been calculated over seven years until 2023. At the same time, you say that the actual construction takes 11 years. What is the real cost of building the border? If there is no record, when will it be completed? Can we be sure, then, that again there is no lack of competence, vision or time and that it is adequate?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U49	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your concern about the restoration of Estonia's independence after the success of one of the most important investments in internal security. First of all, I'd like to take care of one thing. Through the media, there's been a little misconception. There is one increase: from EUR 70 million in 2015, which was calculated without any meaningful study and supported a vague estimate. There was no research, there was a border project, ten years old. There is also an estimate of the border project, which has already been formally carried out through public procurement in February of this year, amounting to 188 million euros. As we agreed in the cabinet, several expert analyses were made. IB Telora, a privately owned company, said that if I wasn't wrong, who had to carry out an expert assessment of the calculation, it was done very correctly. The change is less than usual for projects, a few percent. I am asking here to distinguish between the ICAS accounts in the event of an increase in construction prices. For example, if we look at yesterday's economic forecast, we can see that wages on the construction market have stopped, on the contrary. This 7% said on that side, which can happen if there is the same boom as it is now, is highly speculative. That's not a certain amount at all right now. The other thing is that keeping the border is a whole other line. This 70 million in 10 years is the amount that goes to clean up rivers and lakes, exchange border posts, control equipment. These are not amounts related to border construction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U50	Hatter, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U51	Thank you. So much for the comment that this 7% is conditional, because the PBA and the Ministry of the Interior themselves are also concerned that if Rail Baltic is built at the same time, we will have a pretty heavy shortage of labour in society. How will this crisis be resolved now? That's a different subject. But the National Audit Office has been concerned that, as the government office says, the choice was made in favour of the modern border, i.e. the combined system of technical security arrangements. Why is only one presentation being presented, which could be a maximum ideal that we still do not see in Europe? In this version, or today's version of the border, these technical solutions may be different. Why is the office not presented with different versions of today's model, but with only one? The National Audit Office, I understand, is also disturbed by this and has therefore begun to carry out an audit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U53	Thank you. Again, there's a bit of a communication error. The government has discussed different options, albeit before 2015, when the decision was made that we should go this way, that we are building a technological border. In the meantime, only one thing about life has been added; it is both the drone capacity to take down drones and the ability to guard with drones. But what I want to add here is that we have to solve the most important thing. It should be borne in mind that, at our borders, there has been no major capital-intensive work at the time of this 25- to 26-year re-independence. Border guards don't get access to all the parts of the border. Therefore, in order to start using technology to protect, guard and patrol the border alone, it is necessary to make this border very clear in nature as well. The choices are different. There may be a Latvian road with almost three times as many border guards. They build the garden exactly the same way, but they don't contribute so much to technical capabilities. For us, human resources are the most expensive resource, which is why we have chosen the path of technology. Choices have been made and previous controllers have actually been present in these choices. We have spoken to the current Auditor General and discussed it again in the study. The question is that the Estonian border must withstand all these risks, which have become increasingly acute in recent months and years. The contraband has been brought in by drones. We can see, for example, that there has been a great increase now, but we hope that the arrival of Russian football fans, the so-called fanwigs, on the Estonian border, will be temporary. That's why we start building the border from the bottom of the corner and go, as they say...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U55	Yes, thank you! It's such a good thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U56	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! We certainly support the construction of the eastern border at the very up-to-date and technologically best level, but my question is once again about financing. Has there been a start, and once it has started, how far has it gone to look for funding support for the development of the eastern border from foreign funds? Have you started and where have you come from? If you have started, could you not, for example, extend this construction period because it takes time to process foreign funds? Has it been calculated, and has this plan been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U58	Yeah, thanks! This has been one of the greatest challenges facing me and the ministry that I manage, just as we are preparing for the new financial period. Yesterday, I have also just signed our comments on all the drafts that concern Estonia's proposals, which the Commission could draw on in order to establish financial orientations within the new budget of the European Union. The signs are now positive in the sense that we have said very clearly that this is a priority for our government. I think that this is also the case with the next governments. After all, the European Commission has also made it very clear that European security and border surveillance will receive more input, including financial, in the next financial period. That is what Juncker said in his speech yesterday, for example, when he said that Frontex must be strengthened. During the Estonian Presidency, we raised a very important issue that has been borne by all countries. I am pleased that, in a row, all the countries of the 'green border' are now Austria, then Romania, Finland. There's the same green border standard. And we have also achieved, for example, that Frontex, who went to see our border as an expert, made a very good assessment of this. This gives us a strong starting point in order to promote our same border standard. So I think we have a very good hope of getting European funding too. But I stress once again that the Estonian border guard has actually come from European funding in dozens and tens of millions in previous years. Finally, the help of the Americans, which goes to the border, is five million dollars.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U59	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U60	Asks Maris Lauri, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U61	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Yesterday, the Ministry of Finance published its new economic forecast, which was lower than previous expectations in all respects. And in that light, I wonder if the government is planning to make adjustments to its revenue forecasts. I would point out, in particular, that our excise duties are considerably lower, over EUR 100 million, because, as the national language says, taxes go to Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U62	Yes, thank you very much for this question. We must look at the economic forecast and the resulting fiscal or financial forecast. And in that sense, the subject is important. First of all, a little bit of the general. I think we need to do everything we can to ensure that our economic sector, but also the banking sector in Estonia, is as reliable and stable as possible and that we do not have to deal with issues that can eat this one of the pillars of the economy. Of course, I am thinking of the current money laundering scandal, which is a serious threat to the credibility of the economic environment. Such things can also undermine the stability of the financial sector and threaten the internal market. However, a reliable banking sector is one of the most important pillars of the economy. Therefore, I think your question is particularly topical. As we know, in three days' time, exactly ten years will pass from Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy, which triggered the global economic crisis. When it comes to a specific budget, and you asked about excise policy, it is true that the government has taken a fundamental decision: there will be no increase in excise duty at the beginning of next year. We have canceled an increase in excise duty by half since 1 February of this year. As we know, the previous government started the excise race. For example, we have also reduced the same excise duty on strong alcohol. The truth is, it means stockpiling, stock change. As a result, it can already be said that it is EUR 50 million, minus EUR 48 million. We don't plan to reverse that, so we have to consider this minus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U63	Thank you. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U64	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Time and again, I think you don't hear what you're asked for. But that's it. I would also like to point out that the Estonian economy is currently growing faster than its potential level. The most obvious expression of this is that our inflation rate is very high. That is certainly a major concern for people. At the same time, if we look at what is still happening in the economy, investment by companies will decrease, which means that the economic potential will become even worse in the future. In this context, it seems completely strange that the government is not dealing with future affairs, but is overheating the economy, feeding inflation and all reserves. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U65	Thank you. I don't know. If you say that the economy is growing rapidly, I think this is good news. In any case, I would like the growth of the Estonian economy to continue and be as inclusive as possible. Today, economic growth is certainly faster, thanks to Estonian entrepreneurship, than what we saw a few years ago. I wouldn't complain about that. At the end of your question, you asked about the collection of reserves. As a specialist in this field, you know that reserves and debt cannot be viewed separately, but must be viewed together. This has been one of the very clear positions of the current government: we are reducing the debt burden. This principle is enshrined that it will reach 6% by 2020. I also think that the important message is that the tax burden will fall to around 33% per year. If you look at yesterday's economic forecast, there are such messages: the current economic situation is good, the internal risks are small, there is no risk of overheating. The truth is what you said about inflation, it is very clearly linked to purchased electricity, for example, what has happened because of drought in Scandinavia, particularly in Norway, when we are talking about hydropower. Now on, I think there are more positive messages to be found in the forecast. Wage growth is in line with productivity growth and companies' investment behaviour is currently conservative. I think they're all good news. Surely the budget can be drawn up in a very balanced way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U66	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U67	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! You're not fooling economic people with your misconceptions. Try to answer a couple of questions Maris Lauri was trying to get you to answer, but you didn't. Tell me if you have corrected your view that an economy that has already grown beyond potential needs to be heated with a budget deficit. Have you corrected it? And secondly, have you corrected your promises in the coalition treaty and also in the elections? Now, obviously, you've spent money in advance and there doesn't seem to be any revenue that you promise to spend.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U68	Thank you. After all, as a former long-term finance minister, you know that the basic document is a country's budgetary strategy. If you unblock the country's fiscal strategy adopted by the government in spring 2018, it will provide for a structural balance and nominal surpluses. I don't know where you're gonna get that deficiency story. The truth is that if we take into account the current economic forecast and what it means for the financial forecast, it can be said from this point of view that the budget will be close to structural balance next year. But the government now has the next days, this month, to hand over the budget to the honourable Riigikogu and to make this effort, which is due to the budgetary strategy of the state. So this argument that the budget is in deficit is not the correct argument. The country's budgetary strategy provides for a structural balance of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U70	Seven minutes and 20 seconds to the end of Question Time. Asks Jaak Madison, answers the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. Please, Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U71	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, At the end of August, another incident occurred where a serial pedophile, who has ruined the lives of several children, escaped five months in prison. As a reaction to this, you came out about ten days ago with a statement that the penalties must be tightened up, and I fully agree with this, and that consideration must also be given to granting life imprisonment in repeated cases, and I agree with that. At the same time, in the recent past, on 7 December, the Conservative Group launched a draft law amending the Penal Code Act, the main content of which was the tightening of the penalty for these crimes. This draft also passed the first reading on 21 March, but unfortunately it is still in the Committee on Legal Affairs and has not reached the second reading. My question: has the Ministry of Justice considered moving this draft forward with its amendments and improvements in order to reach a final solution to the tightening of the penalties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U72	Thank you. Indeed, we must block the saripedophiles more forcefully. For this reason, the Government of the Republic has presented a draft law on the prevention of dangerous prone criminals in legislative proceedings, which provides for mandatory conduct control on saripedophile up to life imprisonment, a ban on freeing the courts or only a conditional sentence. It is also very important that the victim or his/her loved ones have the right to be heard before the courts in order to impose the sentence and also later, when discussing a possible early release of the person. In addition, in practice, it is necessary to provide for an obligation for courts to assess a person in the event of a possible early release from prison and to take into account the consent to participate in risk-reducing therapy programmes during behavioural checks. So the government intends to do more than that with the perpetrators of these appalling crimes and with the penalties against them. And the focus of politics is one: safety. The criminal policy objective that will be set for these sanctions is precisely to ensure the safety of children. When it comes to the EKRE draft, which concerns the depiction of a child in a pornographic situation, pornographic material and the tightening of penalties for its actions, this has passed first reading in Parliament. I am sure the Ministry of Justice will also be happy to cooperate on this draft, placing, as I said, the safety of children at the heart of criminal policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U73	Jaak Madison, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U74	Thank you. My point is, in fact, that, according to our draft, the penalties for the production, possession, distribution of multiple child pornography could be increased in the case of § 175, 177 and 178 of the Penal Code, where, for example, it would be possible to impose up to 15 years of imprisonment, for the first time up to 10 years of imprisonment, for up to three years now. At the time, the Justice Department's assessment was that it would get the penal code out of proportion. How is it possible that the position has changed dramatically in six months? At one point, it's considered to be out of proportion to the Penal Code, but now that we're assigning a serial pedophile to life imprisonment, it doesn't. In six months, has your position changed in the right direction, just before the elections? And the second question. As the Committee on Legal Affairs does not seem to have the initiative to proceed with this draft and, unfortunately, I do not have the power to force them, could the Ministry of Justice show the initiative and make signs in the form of publication of cooperation to the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U75	Thank you. No, you're not a lawyer, you don't have to understand these things so precisely. I mean, the question is what? The question is that the Penal Code protects different legal benefits to a certain degree. And, of course, you suggested that if a 15-year-old boy was given a porn magazine, it would be punished by imprisonment of up to 10 years. Our message was that a higher legal benefit is undoubtedly a physical sexual attack on minors when we talk about paedophile activity. That is why we have said that serial pedophiles must be punished for life's imprisonment. The protection of legal rights in a normal country must be placed in a tier. Of course, we are prepared to cooperate fully and to place the protection of legal rights at the heart of the logic, based on the protection of potential victims. So there is no contradiction between this position six months ago and that of the current one. The rights to be protected have their own hierarchy, they are protected in proportion. This is the logic on which the dogmatics of penal law in Central Europe is built.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U76	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U77	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I have a simple question. Has the draft you are presenting also included the creation of a paedophile register that could be accessed, for example, by children's institutions, and has the chemical castration of paedophiles as a form of punishment also been considered? It is used in some parts of the world because paedophilia is the most relapsing form of crime, the methods of punishing it must be very strong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U78	Thank you. Yeah. These are not specifically mentioned in this draft, but I think it is certainly reasonable to consider them, to discuss proposals for ensuring the safety of society. What's important is that our criminal record is actually accessible to people, that it's possible to make inquiries. I think it is entirely legitimate to discuss the fact that the names of those who have committed sexual attacks specifically on minors will make people even more accessible so that they can access these data. I do not think this reasoning is at all wrong. Of course, when it comes to chemical castration, or in fact chemical means of controlling a person's morbid tendencies or passions, it must be practiced. I myself have given the prison service a clear guide that, in fact, the prerequisite for discussing early release can be the commitment of individuals to participate in this programme. Whether to consider the spread of this matter more widely, it is also currently being discussed in the Ministry of Justice. There is no point in not using the tools that, as we can see, have contributed, according to the practice of the criminal police in several countries, to the safety of prone criminals.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U79	I will conclude on this issue. I'm sorry about Monika Haukanõmme, thank the ministers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the first working week of the VIII session on Wednesday. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? There's no desire. Incoming check, please! 91 members of the Riigikogu are present. To clarify the agenda so much that, as compared to Monday, the seventh item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Act amending the General Part of the Civil Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law of Obligations Act, the General Part of the Civil Code Act and the Law on the Implementation of the Private International Law Act, is now known by the Commission as the rapporteur, Hardi Volmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U81	We will begin to discuss today's agenda: the third reading of the Act on Supplementing the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 629. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a good year's start for all of us. But if you look at this bill, this bill we have been discussing here for quite a while at different times, and I have pointed out its shortcomings before. After all, no one is against teaching the Estonian language. The question of whether it must be in this form of law has not been answered. Only the fact that someone is being asked to impose an obligation which then justifies the necessity of this law is, in my opinion, not sufficient. Nor is it appropriate that this law wants to say through flowers that language learning is done only by the National Defence Academy. A normal state organises a public procurement for such language learning, in which everyone can participate. We should not say in advance of this Riigikogu that language learning is done only by the National Defence Academy. True, the Academy of Home Affairs may also make the competition itself, but we should not be cutting it into the law. It also seems a bit awkward that the purpose of this law is to give language learning to people who have lived in Estonia for five years to reach B1. Logic should be that when a person comes to live in Estonia, he or she has an interest in being here and is determined to gain citizenship, he or she will learn the language immediately. But the main thing is that I do not think we should have to adopt such a law at all, because we do not need it. We can achieve this goal within the existing framework of Estonian law. The Minister of Justice has repeatedly come before us here with the message that let's not over-legislative, let's not write new laws if we don't need them. This law, which is now before us, is exactly like that in fact, there is no need for these standards in Estonian law, without these standards. I think it would be wise not to adopt this law today, because it is simply not needed in Estonian law. And I call on you not to vote on this law. We do not need to create standards simply because of standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U83	Oudekki Loone, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with what this bill does. This makes Estonia a fairer and fairer country. The state, which, if it requires anything from an individual, also ensures that this person has the opportunities and means to actually meet the demand. A country that looks at its mistakes and tries to correct them. The Estonian Citizenship Act states that an alien who wishes to acquire Estonian citizenship must speak Estonian at the level necessary for everyday life. This level is set out in the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CFR) B1. There are nearly 6% of persons of undefined citizenship in Estonia, as well as a number of persons with third country citizenship and European Union citizenship, many of whom are interested in becoming an Estonian citizen. One of the biggest obstacles to fulfilling this request is the lack of courses in Estonian and the fluctuating level. Language courses are about to be filled. No accreditation is granted for language courses; their level is not guaranteed. People have a great interest in learning Estonian, but the Estonian state cannot answer. We cannot guarantee what we demand of an individual. This bill is very necessary in the Estonian legal order because it corrects it, saying that if the Estonian state imposes an obligation on an individual, it will also make it possible to fulfil this obligation. It gives a person who, in general, is eligible for Estonian citizenship, who has lived here for at least five years, a one-off, free language learning contract, just by calculating that in the eighth year he can apply for citizenship. It takes three to five years to get to level B1, which is a perfectly rational requirement. And the person signing the contract will also be granted compensation during the period of study leave, in agreement with the employer. In fact, this law says one very important thing. He says that the state of Estonia is for people, not people are for the state. For this very principle, we should all support this draft today, reminding us that the Estonian state is in order to better protect the rights of people living here. But despite this, despite the beautiful principles, do not forget every single person whose life this bill actually improves, who knows that the Estonian state is his and comes to his aid when he is in trouble. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U85	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U86	Now, what doesn't this bill do? This draft does not change the basic principles of citizenship policy to date. This bill does not change the way in which citizenship is acquired. Nor does this draft correspond to the argument that B1 is a necessary level for everyday life. it is a higher level of the threshold for communication. B1 is a level that German universities, for example, ask university entrants. This bill doesn't solve old injustices either. Therefore, let us not link this to yesterday's debate about how many injustices were done in the 1990s in building up the Republic of Estonia and capitalist order. Unfairness struck both the forced tenants and those who crossed international borders and found themselves without any nationality living in their homes at one point. To them, we came up with grey passports, which was supposed to be a temporary solution. This temporary solution is like temporary solutions that have remained for a very long time. This bill doesn't change that at all. This bill only deals with the future, saying that we will not make such mistakes in the future. In order to compensate for the injustice of those people who have lived in this country for 25 years or more, and the children of these people, so that they can participate in political life in their homes and also choose Parliament, we need another Parliament. To this end, we need a stronger political consensus. I hope that it will arrive at some point, perhaps even after March 2019. But today we have this political consensus that we will make the future better, that we will be fairer people in the future than we were in the past. After all, this is every new generation's task of being better than the previous ones, even if they were gigantic. We have to be even better. This bill says that in the future, the state will provide people with the opportunity to learn Estonian, regardless of their income and their place of residence. This country tells the good people who want to be among us that I'm not putting any pointless obstacles on you. Proficiency in the Estonian language is not so that you cannot have it. On the contrary, I'm helping you because it's good for you. We're gonna stop having 'we' and 'they' here. We are honest with our citizens and that is why this bill is excellent. Of course, the Centre Party supports this bill and I hope that we will all support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U87	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! I wasn't planning on coming here to talk, but since Hanno Pevkur's speech was so peculiar, I thought a few words should be said. I am one of the substantive authors of this proposal in terms of a coalition agreement and maybe some things need to be clarified. Of course, language courses are offered in Estonia, they have been offered in the past and will continue to be offered. The question is that we still have tens of thousands of people who have not studied Estonian on their own in the last 27 years. If you look in there a little bit, we can see that these are, in general, those people who are in a weaker social state, who are... [[A voice from the hall.]] But speak less if you want to listen. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] These are people who are in a weaker social state. They do not need to use the Estonian language on a daily basis because those who have it have already learned the Estonian language by today. And when you talk to these people first and foremost in Ida-Virumaa, two things are brought out. One question is the cost of the courses in Estonian and the other is that if you are a single mother working in Kohtla-Järve Maxima, where do you take the time to go to these Estonian language courses after your long working day is over? The Estonian state has created certain opportunities that have been good. One of these has been the reimbursement of language learning costs for people who have passed the Estonian language exams. If they do so, they will receive ex post compensation. This has been a good measure, but it has not solved the concerns of a particular target group because they do not have the money to pay for these courses. As a result, we are in the process of establishing a regulation by this law, according to which people who have committed themselves and are clearly convinced that, with the help of language courses, they want to reach and successfully perform the citizenship text do not have to pay for these courses. They can go there by committing themselves to this exam. Secondly, the state gives a person an average salary of 20 paid days in order to learn Estonian. Mrs Loone spoke of the fact that the quality of language courses is not controlled. This was indeed a problem in Estonia for a very long time. This problem resolved when the speaker was the Minister of Education. According to the law, all language courses that are attended for public money are offered today by service providers who have passed the Language Inspectorate's supervision procedure in order to ensure quality. And to conclude. It is very difficult for me to understand one thing, and that is why the discussion on this subject caused me a great deal of embarrassment. In my opinion, this is a completely ideology-free thing. There are many ideological disputes in citizenship policy, but I do not understand how anyone can oppose the state coming to the aid of its people, offering better opportunities for them to learn the Estonian language and gain Estonian citizenship. It is not possible to give the same leave of study in any other way than by giving this law a rule. If Hanno Pevkur feels that creating such an opportunity is unnecessary, people should not have that right, then I understand that. But I don't understand how it can be justified. The Social Democrats support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U89	Hanno Pevkur has the right to object. Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U90	I'll try to be brief. Thank you, Mr President. The purpose and content of this draft has been confused with the coalition. In this sense, if the state wants to provide free language training, in addition to free bus travel and other interesting things, then there are, as we know, no free things that we all pay for together as taxpayers. Secondly, it is an inevitable prerequisite for a person to have his or her citizenship. And when it comes to people who have lived here for 20 or 25 years without speaking the language, I think this is the first sign that, in fact, the state's education policy, particularly in terms of increasing language learning and segregation, has been misguided and inappropriate from the perspective of certain parties. It is good to be able to receive education in Estonian from the beginning, i.e. in kindergarten. So paying off language courses and obtaining citizenship are completely different things. This law is simply not needed in this form, or these legislative changes are not required in the Citizenship Act. If the country wishes, let it go to the sails, sing songs to the heart! In next year's budget, look at these opportunities and teach people language, no problem. But these discussions here, the big slogans, how we help someone who's been here for 25 years and who hasn't learned the language, and that this law now helps, well, it doesn't help. No, I'm not! If a person wants to learn the language, he learns the language from the so-called other motivation: in order to gain citizenship. And if he wants the help of the state and the state has the capacity to provide assistance, then there are opportunities to do so within the framework of today's legal framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U91	I will close the negotiations and go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, Bill 629 requires a majority vote in the Riigikogu's plenary assembly for adoption. Incoming check, please! 93 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 8. I am voting on the draft Act on Supplementing the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 629. Please take a stand and vote. There are 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, one against and no abstentions. The law supplementing the Citizenship Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U92	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocols to Amendment to the Convention on International Civil Aviation initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U93	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am before you with the draft ratification of the Protocols amending the Convention on International Civil Aviation. Protocols to amend the Convention, approved by the ICAO Assembly in autumn 2016, will be ratified. The amendments will increase the number of members of the ICAO Board and ICAO Air Traffic Commission. The International Civil Aviation Organisation was established on 7 December 1944 under the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Chicago. There are 192 Member States in this organisation at the moment. Estonia already acceded to the Convention in 1992 and at that time we were 166 Member States. The main objective of ICAO is to develop principles for the development of international air traffic and to coordinate and guide technical developments in order to ensure the overall security of air traffic. Paragraph 1 of the proposed draft ratifys the Protocol amending Article 50 of the Convention (a) which increases the number of members of the ICAO Council from 36 to 40. Paragraph 2 of the Bill ratifies the Protocol amending Article 56 of the Convention, which increases the number of members of the ICAO Air Traffic Committee from 19 to 21. Pursuant to § 121 (5) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and Article 94 of the Convention, the Riigikogu needs to ratify them in order for the amendments to enter into force. This draft is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the Aviation Act and there are no contradictions with European Union law. The Amending Protocols shall enter into force once the amendment has been ratified by a number of States designated by the Assembly. In the present case, 128 States are required to ratify the Amending Protocols. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with ICAO. Therefore, Estonia's instrument of ratification must also be deposited there in accordance with the 2016 Protocol of Amendment, which gave effect to its deposit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U94	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson! Economic Commission for... Is there a question for the waitress? Come on, come on, come on, come on! Excuse me, Madam Secretary. Thomas Stone Mountain has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U95	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I reacted fast enough, but sometimes I get distracted. I wanted to ask whether this amendment would also increase Estonia's commitments to ICAO.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U96	No, it does not increase Estonia's obligations. Estonia was still able to apply for membership of the Council on a regional basis, for example, and this option will remain for us if we so wish. At the moment, we don't know if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U97	Now I'm gonna give you a long time to react. Has everyone responded now? Thank you, Madam Secretary. No further questions. The Commission's rapporteur is Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U98	Good Chairman! Good coworkers! On the day of the Estonian flag, 4 June at 11.10 a.m., the Committee on Economic Affairs met to discuss this point. Everyone was present, except Deniss Borodich. I will read out the participants for the sake of protocol: Toomas Kivimägi, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrand, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Tarmo Kruusimäe. And we were assisted by consultant Annaliisa Jame, Kaido Rosin, Marin Daniel and Piia Schults. Few questions were asked, but they were relevant. Then they went to decisions. Firstly, it was decided to place it on today's agenda, with the exception of Raivo Põldaru, who wished to oppose it. It was proposed to stop the first reading of the hand was once again all except for Raivo Põldaru. It was also proposed that amendments be tabled within 10 days, i.e. by 5 p.m. on 26 September, the Commission found a consensus on this issue. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U99	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? There are no questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 622 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 26 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U100	The first reading of draft Act 625 on the ratification of the Act on the prevention, preparedness and response of emergency situations by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Initiator waitress, Home Secretary Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U101	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President of the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia have presented before you a draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement on mutual assistance and cooperation in the prevention, preparedness and response of emergencies. The aim of the law is to regulate this situation, in which we are actually already operating. I myself have signed a treaty on behalf of the Government of the Republic in Vilnius in November 2017, but it will now become a legislative force by ratification. We have agreements between Estonia and Latvia and Latvia and Lithuania. However, there has not yet been an agreement on the basis of which all three countries can cooperate together, prevent emergencies and ensure preparedness through, for example, joint exercises and joint responses. Such events include emergencies, such as natural disasters, disasters. And it is certainly important here, as I emphasised, not only for the rescue, but also for preparing for them. The general principle of cost recovery is precisely this important thing, which is why this law also requires ratification in the Riigikogu. In particular, the costs of granting the aid are borne by the assisting party, it is not the custom to require it from the requesting party. However, the draft stipulates that, in certain cases, costs relating to a request for assistance may also be reimbursed by the applicant party, but shall be agreed between the competent authorities before the aid is granted. It is here that it means cost-intensive, very long-term assistance, as well as, for example, costs related to the use of aircraft, which are shared equally between the assisting party and the requesting party. As I said, since this agreement includes tax exemptions, which primarily concern road user fees and other state taxes, ratification by the Riigikogu is necessary for the agreement to enter into force in accordance with § 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Exemption from taxes and other charges relates both to response needs and to joint exercises. The law is designed to enter into force as a general rule. Pursuant to Article 13 (1) of the Agreement, the Agreement shall enter into force 30 days after the depositary has received the last written notification through diplomatic channels that the internal requirements necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement have been met. The depositary shall notify the parties of the notification and of the date of entry into force of the agreement. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U102	Questions for the waitress. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U103	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, This is a very necessary and practical agreement. But I have now read it in both languages, as we have been given, and, frankly, only the last sentence in the Treaty offered comfort that interpretation differences are based on the English text. In the Estonian text, I found that the Lithuanian profession has been transformed into a department, a designer for an emergency, a new concept of'military workers' has emerged, etc. Am I right to understand that this text can no longer be improved in Estonian and we hope that in the future these things will be translated more correctly and actually? All the more so when I look at Article 12 saying that the official depositary of the agreement is the government of the Republic of Estonia. Let us hope that these translation errors will remain our homework.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U104	Thank you. That's a good point, but I'm not as good a Latvian or a Lithuanian expert as maybe a little bit more English, so I can argue with you or agree with you. I'm sure I'll pass on that information. If necessary, if these language errors, errors are so important, they can also be resolved by diplomatic means, unless this brings about a change in substance on those points which concern the financial obligations of the states, which are also the reason for bringing this agreement before the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U105	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. This concerns the three countries on the Baltic Sea, and yet this explanatory memorandum states that the agreement does not apply to accidents occurring in sea waters under the jurisdiction of the parties. Please, could you please explain once more to the far-off people how these accidents at sea will be solved together?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U107	The resolution of maritime accidents is first regulated through other bilateral agreements, both international and transnational. This particular issue is, as I said, land rescue and land rescue operate a little according to other principles. If, for example, we base it on how it is in Estonia, then the Rescue Board does not essentially deal with sea rescue, it is dealt with by the Police and Border Guard Board. In different countries, these things have been resolved differently. For example, with Finland, with whom we have the greatest cooperation in the area of sea rescue, because our common maritime borders are the longest in the countries listed, we have bilateral cooperation agreements. And certainly the acts of international law are also the ones that say to what extent someone has to carry out the task.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U108	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U109	Thank you. I come back to this complicated world of understanding. We are dealing with an agreement entitled 'Woe prevention, preparedness and response... ', et cetera. I read in the explanatory memorandum that the term 'emergency' in this contract does not mean at all the term 'emergency' that we have defined by law. That is my question: which areas are excluded from this agreement? Are the authorities responsible for resolving these emergencies, which is logical in our legal space, informed that this agreement is not for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U110	Yeah, that's self-evident. First of all, we begin by saying that our law, too, is very clear about which authorities need to prepare for which emergencies and what the role of the Rescue Board is, what emergency situations they are dealing with. When I take the term 'emergency' in the agreement, it is essentially no different from the term 'emergency' in our emergency law. Which does not mean that the same international agreement, the agreement between the three countries, does not specifically mention the type of emergencies and the types of response that the parties to the agreement have agreed upon. National law is a little different. In case of need, the Rescue Board will also involve other local authorities, such as border authorities, if help is needed on the Estonian, Latvian or Lithuanian side to resolve certain situations. I do not rule out a situation such as a forest fire or some other major natural disaster and there is a need to evacuate people from somewhere. Then there is no problem; then it is possible to act in the process of solving a particular problem. If, for example, people need to be evacuated to the Estonian side or vice versa, as we know, our rescue and ambulance are already responding across borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U111	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt! The rapporteur for the Legal Affairs Committee is Raivo Time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs met for the first time to discuss the draft law on 28 May 2018. Jaanus Kariliid, President of the Commission and Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Liisa Oviir, Peep Aru, Raivo Aeg, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere took part in the Commission's work. Külliki Kübarsepp, Olga Ivanova and Toomas Vitsut were not members of the Riigikogu. As guests, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, Mr Priit Laaniste, Head of the Department for Rescue and Crisis Management, and Mr Kadi Tisler, Legal Adviser, and Mr Kristen Kanarik, Minister, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. The Minister has already talked in detail here, which contains the substance of this agreement. It was not a very long debate at the Commission meeting, nor was it alarmed. There were three questioners: Valdo Randpere, Urve Tiidus and me. Valdo Randpere expressed the view that such a law was not necessary, as it could be done on the basis of other agreements. The explanation was that, since these are tax changes, it is still necessary to ratify this law. Urve Tiidus asked me to clarify what taxes are being discussed. That's what we were talking about here. An example was the exemption from tolls and other taxes. I asked the evasive question as to how law enforcement cooperation is regulated in an emergency and whether the necessary agreements are in place. The Minister said it's okay, there are contracts and law enforcement cooperation is working. That is what the debate was about. Procedural decisions were also taken: first, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 6 June 2018 (consensual decision), to appoint Mr Aeg as rapporteur (also a consensual decision), to propose a deadline for amendments of 20 June 2018 (consensual decision) and to propose that the first reading be closed (also a consensual decision). On 6 June, however, it was not possible to put the draft on the agenda, as the Minister could not attend the Riigikogu meeting. Thus, the Committee on Legal Affairs met again on 11 June 2018 when new procedural decisions were taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 12 September 2018 (consensus decision), to propose that the first reading be closed (formerly a consensual decision) and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 16.15 p.m. on 26 September 2018 (including consensus support). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U113	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Raivo Time! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 625 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16.15 p.m. on 26 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U114	First reading of the draft Act amending the Fertiliser Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Initiator waitress, Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U115	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the Fertiliser Act and the State Fees Act 639. The need to amend the Fertiliser Act and the State Fees Act is due to the problems encountered in the analysis of the application of the Fertiliser Act. The design of the law was based on the intention to develop. The amendment simplifies the registration of fertilisers and makes it cheaper. For example, the introduction of new and small quantities of fertilisers on the Estonian market will become more favourable. It will also make it easier to charge: instead of the current five state fees, one state fee will have to be paid. One of the objectives of the amendments is to ensure effective monitoring of fertilisers labelled 'EC FERTILIZER' on the national market. For this purpose, in the Fertiliser Act EC FERTILIZER, the obligation to notify fertilisers by the fertiliser operator is replaced by the obligation to notify economic activities. According to the Act, all fertilising operators operating in Estonia will be required to submit a notification of economic activity on the basis of which the operator and the fertilizer he markets will be entered in the Fertilising Register. As a result, the Fertiliser Register reflects actual, relevant and up-to-date data on fertilisers and distributors marketed in Estonia. The State Fees Act is amended as a result of amendments to the Fertilising Act. These changes are due to the fact that the verification of the state fee paid for supervisory activities is time- and labour-intensive for both operators and supervisory authorities. According to the amendment, EUR 65 will be paid annually and on a name-by-name basis. Under the current law, the state fee is paid twice a year on the basis of the quantities marketed, in addition to the registration, the amendment of the registration and the certified extract. These state fees will disappear, which means that the calculation of state fees will be considerably simplified and the administrative burden of calculating and paying the state fee for fertilising operators will be reduced. The tax burden will remain at the same level. In addition, the Fertilisers Act is supplemented by points which point out that it is their duty to ensure that the composition of the fertiliser and the labelling on the packaging comply with the requirements of the Chemical Act even before the product is placed on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U116	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In order to implement this bill, it is also necessary to amend the procedural information system. The law has already been set to apply on 1 January 2019. Will these changes to the information system still be completed, because we only have a few months left, or can we expect some IT failures to occur here again? Do you have all these changes ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U118	Thank you, good questioner! I am sure that these changes will be implemented and that there will be no entanglement in the implementation of this law. So if the Riigikogu adopts this law, I think it can enter into force on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U119	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm! The rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs is Urmas Kruuse, Vice-President of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I can only confirm that indeed, including on 4 June, there was a meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs where this draft was discussed. It is also a fixed protocol 171. The meeting was chaired by Aivar Kokk and Jaanika Lokk and attended by Urmas Kruuse, Arno Sild, Igor Gräzin, Inara Luigas and Merle Kruusimägi. As the Honorable Minister stressed in his presentation, this amendment has several aims. One is the reduction of administrative burdens, which basically concerns both sides, both the economic operator and the country. Another important aspect is that it is also necessary to monitor and control which fertilisers are marketed on the Estonian market. It should be possible to monitor it accurately in real time. As you understand, according to the law in force, this can be done historically: quantities sold must be declared and all accounts are based on kilos. Sigmar Suu, Head of Plant Health Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Vahur Mõttus, Chief Specialist, were invited to the meeting. There was a debate. The questions were partly the same as those asked here. Do businesses have to pay more? Does this fee, EUR 65, cover all possible needs? Does anyone get more expensive or cheaper? Does this in fact restrict the ability of small businesses to bring small quantities to the market at relatively low cost? Those questions were answered. The chairman of the committee asked for an additional table to be sent to the example of specific companies, which will happen if this state fee is imposed and if it would also be more than EUR 65, or EUR 95. In view of all of the above, the Commission also took decisions. It was proposed that draft 639 be placed on the plenary agenda on 12 September 2018 (a consensual decision). It was decided to propose the completion of the first reading of draft 639 (a consensus). Of course, it was also proposed to set the deadline for the amendments to draft 639 in accordance with the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act 10 working days, i.e. 26 September 2018 at 5.15 p.m. (consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U121	Any questions for the waitress? Thank you, Urmas Kruuse! I'm opening negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. First reading of Bill 639 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 26 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U122	First reading of Bill 640 of the Law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Initiator waitress, Minister of Health and Labour Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U123	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to introduce to you the draft law of 640 initiated by the Government of the Republic, the draft law amending the Law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors. This is a technical draft aimed at bringing Estonian legislation and European Union legislation into line, thus ensuring greater legal clarity. The law replaces the outdated reference to the Council Decision repealed by the Directive. In addition, the law replaces and complements references to European Union legislation on drug precursors. These are technical changes, the implementation of which does not entail any additional obligations, rights or administrative costs for Estonia. The law will enter into force on 23 November 2018, and this entry into force will be due to the deadline for transposition of Directive (EU) 2017/2103 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The draft consists of two paragraphs. The first is to amend the law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors. A list of directly applicable legislation governing trade in scheduled substances in the European Union, a list of documents necessary for the application and renewal of the authorisation and references to the report to be submitted to the Agency shall be established. References to the repealed Commission Regulation shall be replaced by references to the new Regulations and shall be accompanied by a reference to the Commission Implementing Regulation. In addition, § 1 (6) amends the obligation to provide information on the early warning information system for new psychoactive substances on the basis of information received from Europol and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction to the Ministry of Social Affairs or to the national research and development agency managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is currently the National Institute for Health Development. Finally, a technical note on the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council is included. Indeed, the date of entry into force is already in November, and that is why we hope to move forward quickly with this draft. Good luck and thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U124	Questions for the initiator of the draft. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U125	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Here's the question. So far, it has not been possible to disprove the suspicion that the white Chinese and other narcotics that spread on the Estonian market are being made in Estonia. It is believed that these laboratories are precisely in Estonia; these substances are not produced anywhere else. Is there any way, or is there no way, that the rules or supervision of a substance such as acetone handling are reflected in that law? Does acetone still move freely around the market? So that's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U126	Yes, indeed, this draft does not establish a list of banned substances or narcotics or psychotropic substances. It regulates how to obtain information on new substances, as well as on detection, detection, consumption, consumption patterns, manufacture and distribution methods, how to share this information within the European Union and internationally, and how to pass this information on to Europol so that this knowledge reaches elsewhere. For a given substance, this draft does not restrict or in any way assess its use or place of manufacture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U127	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you that for the rest of the last question. In this, an interesting statement was made, and I hope that it is not true, as if very strong drugs were produced in Estonia. Is there any way you can comment on the opportunity that sounded in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U129	No, I really can't comment on the location or method of distribution of a particular drug.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U130	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U131	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Here's the question. In 1971, Nixon declared war on drugs. In 2011, an audit was carried out which revealed that their use has increased 40 times worldwide. Have we lost this war? And is there any plan to reduce consumption so that it doesn't increase anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U132	In this sense, this bill really helps. After all, the production and distribution of drugs is an international network. This draft really addresses the fact that information on new substances that have reached the market, their health effects and patterns of consumption, how and what target groups consume them, will reach other countries as soon as possible so that action can be agreed at European Union level to combat this war.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U133	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U134	Thank you! I'm just looking at whether this fight is justified. Forbidden fruits are sweet. Can you tell me what would have happened if Nixon hadn't declared war in 1971? I think that then we might not have faced this big problem today, we would have focused on so-called replacement activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U135	Indeed, there are historical reasons for which the consumption and production of substances is permitted or prohibited in the country. Whether we are talking about tobacco, its consumption and its legality, or about narcotics, the situation has become this for historical reasons. The question is which measures should be taken. If we see that risk behaviour is widespread in Estonia and the damage involved is high, then we must respond to it. I can't tell you what the drug situation would be like for us or America if Nixon had decided differently in 1971. But we look at the damage we've suffered and we act accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U136	No further questions to the originator's waitress. Thank you, Minister of Health and Labour Riina Sikkut! The rapporteur for the Social Committee is Monika Haukanõm, Vice-President of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U137	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors by number 640 at its meeting on 6 August. The aim was to prepare for the first reading. Commission members Monika Haukanõm, Igor Kravtšenko, Jüri Jaanson, Liina Kersna, Marika Tuus-Laul, Maris Lauri and Viktor Vassiliev took part in the Commission's work, and Tiina Kangro was absent. Among those invited, Ms Riina Sikkut, Minister for Health and Labour, and Tiina Drell, Adviser to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs participated. Minister Sikkut gave an overview of the draft, just as he did here. As this is a technical draft, the alignment of European Union legislation and our national laws, the Members of the Commission did not raise any further questions. The agenda was carried out relatively quickly, but the necessary decisions were also taken. These were then as follows: the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 12 September, today (consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensus), to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 26 September (consensus) and to appoint Monika Haukanõm (consensus) as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U138	Questions from the hall. March Sults begins. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U139	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm asking again because I didn't get an answer. In the case of acetone and ketones, which are the main precursors, carriers and solvents in the manufacture of narcotic drugs, was some sort of special regulation or supervision discussed, who orders or who consumes what? Is there a requirement for additional reporting or other things to eliminate the possibility of having, for example, 200 or 400 litres of acetone, which is not uncommon at all today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U140	Thank you for your question. As I have already referred to in my report, this was not a question that was put to the Minister in the Commission, and we did not discuss this issue. This is certainly a very important question.. I have no doubt at all about it, but we did not discuss it in the framework of this draft. I have no answer to that question. If there is an interest, I believe that the Commission Secretariat can examine it a little bit, ask for information and also give you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U141	However, we can ask two oral questions. No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. There's no call. As we have just heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 640. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 26 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U142	Today's sixth item: First reading of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (transposition of the Anti-terrorism Directive) 642. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Chair, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U143	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! Have a nice session! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws to the legislator for discussion and consideration, which consists of two elements. The first element provides for rules that incorporate the principles of the European Union's fight against terrorism into Estonian law. These principles provide, firstly, that training to commit a terrorist offence and travel, organisation, financing and support for terrorist purposes is to be provided as a criminal offence. Secondly, in addition to other victim support services, the provision of necessary psychological assistance to victims of terrorism will be ensured as long as necessary. Thirdly, the victim of a terrorist offence is guaranteed state legal aid in criminal proceedings, regardless of his or her economic status. These are the three principles that are important to introduce into our existing legal order. The fight against terrorism has been a serious concern for the peoples of Europe. We have survived terrorist crimes on European soil, the victims of which have been the representatives of the various peoples of Europe, including the people of Estonia. It is certainly in our interest that, in the event of a potential threat, our own citizens, our own people, if they are in another European country, receive adequate assistance. This is also what the other peoples of Europe expect from all countries. Secondly, it is important that such action and organisation, where Islamic radicals are insane, lure them into ISIS as terrorist fighters, as well as travel to Syria for terrorist purposes, are clearly criminalised. The second part concerns the need to clarify the regulation of the offences against the Republic of Estonia, i.e. against the state, in the Penal Code. Namely, first, the liability of the legal person for committing all offences against the Republic of Estonia is laid down. The intelligence activities of a foreign intelligence or security service official, or of a person acting on its behalf or on its behalf, which are directed against the security of the Republic of Estonia, and the support of such activities shall be provided as a separate criminal offence. Such activities may include, for example, the collection, storage, transmission, transfer, alteration or damage of information or matter by a person acting in the interests of or on behalf of a foreign enemy. Indeed, according to the current law, it is only possible to punish an Estonian citizen and an alien for an offence without violence against the Republic of Estonia if it consists in the surrender of state secrets, or an attempt at violent acts, so-called coup d'état, if he already has a weapon in his hands. At the same time, activities that are not directly directed against independence and independence or territorial integrity, whether in the form of violence or espionage, may also threaten the security of Estonia, but which threaten the security of Estonia more generally. This is a legal gap and the Government of the Republic considers it appropriate to close this gap. In addition, the requirement that this activity should be systematic is waived if an official is to commit an anti-government crime, commit a treason or fail to comply with an obligation, because, in extreme circumstances, a one-off impact could damage the security of Estonia. Under current law, the creation or maintenance of a relationship by an Estonian citizen with a foreign country or a person acting on a foreign mission is punishable with the aim of committing treason. The bill extends the composition of the offence and would be punishable in the future even if the person's aim is to commit another serious crime against the state. There is no point in denying that, in the light of the recent apprehension of a person suspected of being a spy, I really sent a letter to the Committee on Legal Affairs asking the Committee on Legal Affairs to consider and, if necessary, supplement this bill. In fact, the Government of the Republic has the right, in the form of discretion, to withdraw citizenship from persons who are in armed formations or armed forces in a third country. The spy may not in itself be in the armed forces of a third country, but the nature of its activities is exactly parallel. Essentially, its activities, the gathering of confidential information and possible communication, probably considerably more harm us than the armed struggle against the Republic of Estonia in the armed forces of a third country. It is therefore proposed that the Riigikogu discuss this draft law and consider introducing this rule into the Citizenship Act in order to take away citizenship from persons who are either involved in the activities of a terrorist organisation or who have committed an offence against the state at first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U144	There are questions for the Minister. Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U145	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! This bill also talks about the liability of a legal person. Can you give the public a practical example of how this would materialise? How does the definition of a legal person in this context apply to an anti-national crime? I am just asking for a practical example.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U146	The practical example can actually be this. Suppose some kind of spy establishes a company that is most likely. And this company, through its members of the governing bodies, is going to carry out some anti-state action, for example, after the imposition of an emergency situation, when there is a limited message secret, to print some anti-state leaflets, or to pay some people a salary to come out on the street and participate in riots, etc., etc. There is no doubt that a legal person is fiction in reality, even a punishment for a legal person can be a financial or a judicial winding-up. But the meaning of the independent liability of a legal person here is, in fact, that it is primarily linked to acts of an economic nature and, in order to be able to impose sanctions on a legal person, it has been considered appropriate to extend this concept. Well, that's a punitive or theoretical construction, but my point is precisely to avoid legal loopholes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U147	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U148	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Is it now possible to exempt a person or a citizen from nationality if they are convicted of contributing to terrorism on the basis of the relevant section of our judicial space?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U149	No, there is no such possibility in the current legal order. I was referring to serving in the armed forces of a third country. I admit that, since this is a matter of government discretion, there is no doubt that the government has a certain margin of interpretation here, which is a third country. We do not regard ISIS as a country within the meaning of international law, even though their armed gangs actually control large areas of land in Syria. In international law, however, it is important for the country to consider that third countries have to recognise it as a country in turn. So that's the legal gap right there. And we also have experience with the same person who raised the same question. He came here to fight as a tourist, if I remember correctly, in the uniform of the so-called Lugansk People's Republic and was convicted in the Estonian court. We also extradited him to the Ukrainian government, the Ukrainians used him in exchange for prisoners, and he moved across another border again. That's the way things are going. In the same way, we can take the view that the Republic of Estonia set a precedent in Europe, treating the Republic of Lugansk and Donetsk as terrorist organisations, they were not treated as countries whose armed forces were fought by a man.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U150	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Cooperation between agencies, their technological capabilities, their capacity to manage terrorism crimes, as well as their subsequent handling, is very important. You are also speaking in this explanatory memorandum on several pages about the importance of its cooperation and technological capacity. What do you assess today, on the one hand, this cooperation, on the other hand, technological readiness and, on the other hand, the need for further training, courses or joint exercises?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U152	I am not taking out the country of Estonia uniquely now; I actually value the capacity of all European countries as insufficient. Why? In the European legal order, there is in itself insufficient regulation of the exchange of communication data, for example, concerning the interception of the same terrorists and suspects. The free movement of people is allowed in Europe; you can move from one country to another. These people talk to mobile phones and communicate electronically, but there are problems with blocking it or seeing it, with whom they were in contact at all. Another serious problem is undoubtedly related to the ability or, rather, the inability to identify and investigate information or these crimes via the electronic platform. Clearly, there is one European initiative in itself that will be, I think, one big dance and a chase. This is a draft European Union legislation aimed at obliging online service providers to eliminate terrorist content online. It's a double-edged knife, of course. On the one hand, if you take the videos we all know and where ISIS fighters cut off people's heads, then obviously every sane person interprets it as terrorist content online, connects them to violence and terrorism. The direct calls to join a terrorist organisation and commit terrorist crimes are also clear to everyone, I imagine. But there is certainly room for interpretation and there is controversy about freedom of expression and the obligation for Internet service providers to start doing this censorship or trawling the network. I think it's gonna be some serious controversy. The reality is that there are also separate inter-agency collections in Estonia that deal with the fight against terrorism or its coordination. Fortunately, there is no great terrorist threat in this area: there are no cases, and it has also been acknowledged that we have not been such a target. But the fact is that when we look at Finland and Sweden, there have been cases like this. There is nothing to say, one contextual fact here is that a large Islamic community has actually emerged in Sweden and Finland. I think that this is an objective fact in this context, which could also increase our target level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U153	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U154	Good manager and waitress! I read here that if you act as a private individual against the Republic of Estonia, for example, you sell something with this motive, how much will be punished for it. But it also says here that when a legal person deals with it, there's a different punishment, you have to pay some money. I ask for self-education which legal entities could, for example, engage in intelligence activities directed against the Republic of Estonia. Can you give examples of what organisations or legal entities could be like, or are they?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U155	Consider an example. Let's not name it now, but in the Republic of Estonia, for example, there is a bank that is established or operates under the influence of a country that is, let's say, hostile to us. Under this influence, the bank's management, the bank's supervisory board and the management board carry out certain operations. What could be interesting for a foreign country? For example, information. The bank will provide some sensitive information about its clients to a foreign country and maybe it will also have some other information about the Estonian monetary system. So one thing is definitely moving and using information. Secondly, we are imagining, for example, a large company which may have been established in disguise. The intelligence authorities of the Republic of Estonia have the right to pretend to be legal persons for their information operations, however funny this construction sounds. Similarly, a person may set up a private limited company that paints cars as a cover for espionage. In fact, the Russian spy has set it up, rented a garage there. I mean, the question is, as I answered one of the previous questions here, that, of course, a legal person in itself is a legal fiction. In fact, there is no such person who comes into the room, he is a legal construct. However, it is important to define the liability of a legal person precisely in a situation where it is not possible to separate the purpose of that person and the actual activities pursued by that person from those of natural persons who are in the service of that person or who are in the direction of that person. The death penalty is prohibited in Estonia, but it can in itself be called into question in the case of legal persons. Of course, a judicial winding-up of a legal person may also be considered as a punishment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U156	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U157	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Here's the second question. Here is § 235, where it is said that the creation or keeping of a relationship with a foreign country, etc., is punishable. Here's what I'm gonna ask you. We have many groups of friends in Parliament. I myself am a member of the United States Friendship Group and also a member of the Russian Friendship Group. What about this communication, for example, if it actually happened to colleagues from the Russian Federation? A lot of what we're talking about, and after it turns out that...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U158	Well, you're an EKRE person. I can't comment on what kind of secret communication you have with Russia. I can't comment. If we are now talking about intentions in communication, then if this relationship is such that independent anti-state acts are to be carried out, sanctions must certainly be applied. Of course, it is not about any relationship with anyone, it is a Russian spy, a soldier of a hostile state or some kind of GRU general. Of course, any relationship is not punishable in a democratic country. We are talking only about a relationship that has been established with the aim of committing independent crimes against the state, i.e. espionage, coup d'état, etc. Only this type of relationship is an option. It is simply a relationship that, of course, is not criminalised in the country, no matter how malicious or benevolent people are interacted with.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U159	Thank you very much to the Minister. The Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Kariliid, will present the panel's report.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U160	Ladies and gentlemen, A meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on this draft took place on 11 June. All members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were present. We heard the report by the Minister of Justice on the idea of a draft report and took four decisions: firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary on 12 September, secondly, to propose that the first reading be stopped (also consensually), to set the deadline for the proposals at 4 p.m. (also consensually) and to appoint Jaanus Karilaid as rapporteur (the individual remained here too). That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U161	And that's it, because there are no questions. Thanks to the waitress! I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 642. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 26 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U162	The seventh item is the first reading of the General Part of the Civil Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Bill amending the Law of Obligations Act, the General Part of the Civil Code Act and the Act implementing the Law on Private International Law (627 SE). Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Speaking Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U163	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! The Government has submitted several amendments to the law to the Riigikogu for discussion, but the whole point of the bill is one: the extension of the limitation period is intended to increase the rights of the creditor in a situation where the debtor has caused him damage unlawfully, including by some crimes, and the creditor's claim is recognised by an enforceable document. What is the current situation? The current situation is that if I commit a crime, such as an economic crime or an invalid, the limitation period will be ten years. In ten years, I will not pay for this criminal civil damage, and on the first day after ten years, I will live like a man before. How did this situation come about? We had 30 years before the European debt crisis and the general expiry date of our economic crisis claims. This is a very long time, also in the European context. Then we had the economic crisis and, rightly, it was discussed in the Riigikogu and it was found that there were too many 30 years. There were dozens and tens of thousands of people, we remember this was the one who had done nothing wrong, but, in good faith, could no longer fulfill his obligations, owed the bank debt. The house was taken away, they lost their jobs. People were in full trouble, and the Riigikogu felt that it should be reduced for 30 years. If 30 years remain in force, the person is basically already in retirement or simply in retirement, when he is actually relieved of the obligation that he has to the credit institution in particular. This reduced the time to ten years. However, this change created a situation where, for example, Avo Violi's debt began to apply for 10 years instead of 30 years. Those who have committed crimes, whose debt is not due to a debt relationship, have also failed to fulfil their obligations. They've been acting in a very illegal way. And for me, this situation is not normal. I think that the legal order must clearly distinguish between the ordinary civil-law debt that has arisen and the obligation arising from the unlawful conduct of a person. The government has therefore proposed to extend this limitation period from 10 to 20 years. We sent this proposal to various stakeholders. In fact, the original proposal, if I am not mistaken, was more like 30 years in the intention to develop. We received ten opinions from stakeholders and five opinions received from experts and scientists stated that it was reasonable to consider this, while the fifth thought was that it was unreasonable to consider it. In conclusion, it is still a matter of social sense of justice and agreement, one way or another. This is not the legal technological notional time limit that can be set either in terms of time, which can be dogmatically determined in the same way. This is a matter of choice in the current law: do we consider it necessary for a person to make up for a crime in the long term, to work hard, whether it is an economic crime or the damage caused by an act against a person? This is actually the core of this bill. In essence, the objections to this draft have been of such a nature that it has been considered that too little time has passed since this provision was adopted during the economic crisis, i.e. 2009, 2010 and should look at what the practice is going to be. But the practice is already clear, and there is no point in making the practice very difficult. All of us understand that if people who have very badly violated legal order are told that they will be relieved of their obligation to comply with legal recovery within 10 years instead of 30 years, they will also take advantage of this possibility. It's the reality of life, human behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U164	Külliki Hatter starts the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U165	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You expressed your personal opinion in your speech, it's like your personal proposal. At the same time, the Supreme Court also points out that the principles of the European Treaty should apply for ten years without exception. Do you have any examples of countries in the European Union where another number is set for the limitation period? If there are such countries, what are these examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U166	Thank you. The Nordics jump on the head first. For example, Finland has a longer limitation period. And they also distinguish this type of claim. In this case, it's the way we do. And I think there are more of these countries. I certainly would not be able to put forward such a draft if, in any way, the European legal order had stipulated rigidly that this could not be done. There are certain directions in place and these are set out by the Member State itself as it wishes. I do not want to mislead you here with other examples, but for a second reading, or certainly for further discussion by the Commission, I would ask colleagues to provide a list of countries where this deadline is longer. There is certainly a problem in the national enforcement system, but the enforcement system is also powerless when these transfers have taken place. And there have been cases where I am contacted by creditors and asked that you see, because of an economic crime, I have had a million euros to make a loss, or even more than 10 million kroons. It has been found that a man has put this money on tour and now lives like miška, the jeeps are at home in the courtyard. And they're right to ask! Think of the amount of 10 million kroons in the 1990s, right, and what kind of money it is today! I don't know, in terms of actual purchasing power, 10 million more can be set at zero. I've also been talking to the executives involved in these extreme cases. There is no way that I can accuse the auditors of the fact that, in legal terms, the property is out of the control of that person. We are also trying to better prevent economic crime by making the country react earlier so that those under control can be more, more effective. We will come up with these proposals in the autumn. But now that we talk about such cases in a forward-looking way, I am convinced that, in the case of certain acts, the limitation period should be extended. I was told by a grandfather whose granddaughter was beaten in a wheelchair. Those characters who are supposed to pay for the civil damage caused to this grandson, expressed in his persistent health problem, well, a few hundred euros have been paid. It's similar to the Violian case, isn't it? Ten years goes by again, and then that's it. Backwards it can't be applied and again the stopwatch is stuck. Well, that's not fair. It's not fair! We are not talking about these fully-powered people being somehow insolvent, of course they are simply deliberately sneaking aside.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U167	Thomas Vitsu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U168	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! These cases, which have been mentioned here for example, are certainly extreme. And extreme cases are usually isolated cases, not very widespread cases. But in extreme cases, people usually love to justify things. For example, the Attorney General still loves to give the legislator examples of paedophiles, which is good for influencing the legislator. However, I am more interested in how much this is going to affect the normal borrower. In general, creditors are in a stronger position than borrowers. We have had a lot of discussion here on SMS loans and their protection. How much will this change affect the normal borrower?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U169	Thank you. A very specific question. It's not gonna affect me at all. In other words, the realisation of the debt enforcement document will remain within ten years, as the legislator anticipated after this economic crisis. If it is a debt relationship, these are SMS loans or some other loans, for example, a person bought a TV with a deferred payment and could not pay the money, or someone is in debt with a house loan, then the general ten-year principle will remain in force at expiry. However, if there has been an unlawful act and the damage has actually been recognised by means of enforcement documents and a civil action has been brought in criminal proceedings, the expiry date of the claim could be 20 years. What does that mean? It's very simple: I'm gonna go burn somebody's house down. That's an illegal act, isn't it? According to the current law, liability lasts ten years, that is to say, this expiration date will increase to 20 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U170	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The reconciliation table shows that the Supreme Court does not support this bill. Would you please state all the main arguments on which the Supreme Court does not support this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U172	You've got the right thing to do. The Supreme Court has written down three fundamental facts. Firstly, the 25-year deadline at the beginning was 25 years under discussion, now 20 years under possible constitutional review procedures may prove disproportionately long, even for persons who have behaved badly. The second argument was that they simply did not support the draft. And the third argument referred to was the principles of the European Treaty, which Külliki's Hatter referred to in his question. The period of expiry of the claim resulting from the enforcement documents shall be set at 10 years. At the same time, this instrument of Treaty principles is not a binding instrument of the European Union; it is an indicative document, just as there are recommended clauses in international instruments. In commenting on these arguments, I say that neither the Supreme Court has previously declared it unconstitutional for 30 years. This legal order functioned for nearly 20 years before it was changed for 30 years, not on the basis of the constitutional review of the Supreme Court, but on the basis of the decision of the legislator for ten years. It is now under discussion to extend it in the event of damage caused by an unlawful act. I would like to stress once again that we need to look at things in balance: on one side there is a person who should pay for a longer period of time from the entry into force of this law. This law, of course, would not have retroactive effect. But yes, I'm committing a crime, I'm causing damage, and now I have to consider that this requirement applies for 20 years instead of ten years. And there's a person on the other side looking at you. Before Thomas rightly pointed out that such border cases were more emotional, weren't they? But there's a victim looking at you and asking why his life is ruined. And that financial compensation will always be insufficient compared to the ruined life of the victim or his loved ones. Is ten years really enough to make it up to you? As many coordinators rightly say: this is a matter of value, how we consider these things. I assure you that the legislator is free to keep this weight in the same position and to keep it in force for ten years, is free to stall things, is free to change them all 30 years ago, and is also free to split regulation for certain types of damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U173	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U174	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Can we talk about the case law relating to the limitation periods for claims for damages? Have applications been submitted for extension and, if so, have they been granted? What is such a statistical overview of judicial proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U175	Thank you. Ten years in itself, that's the expiration date. There is no such subjective court space for extension, unless there are other circumstances that will start from the beginning. So there's no room. The legislator has clearly set this limitation period for 10 years. At the same time, there are certainly some individuals who accept and comply with this requirement after ten years, bearing in mind the moral aspect. Surely there are such people, and I do not deny that. They are law-abiding and carry out their duty step by step. The proportion of how many people continue to meet their claims legally after the deadline I mean, above all, debt ratios, I do not know what to call the ratio at the moment. But, if necessary, it is certainly possible to obtain this information, as far as the case law allows it to be pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U176	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U177	Thank you. Mr. Minister! How do the proposals that you have now brought before the Riigikogu appear in the light of the legal practice of our neighbouring countries? Do Finland, Sweden or Germany, for example, have the same deadlines as we do? Now, if we were to change these, what we hypothetically imagine is that the laws will be amended as you propose, how will they stand out in comparison with the laws of neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U178	Let's just say that the 30 years that we had before 2009 were one of the most extreme deadlines for European law at the time. Indeed, we were very conservative in terms of the time limit for the debt to be offset or extinguished. As regards now, if this deadline were 20 years for crimes and any unlawful acts, and otherwise 10 years, I must admit that we would be comparable to Finland. In Finland, these deadlines are longer than the ten years foreseen in our current law. In Sweden, it is structured to my knowledge and, in fact, Sweden is not at the low level that we have for ten years. About Germany, I owe you an answer, but I'm sure we have that comparative information at the Ministry. I'm sorry it's not in the explanatory memorandum, or I could give you a detailed answer right now in this chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U179	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U180	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Obviously, we can look back at the time the deadline was 30 years. The current deadline is ten years. Did the situation of the victims get worse after they overcame ten years? And now it's getting better again? Will they be able to recover their damages more easily if this deadline is extended? What's the situation? Is there any hope that it will heal? If people know that the claim is valid for ten years, logic says they're trying to stall so they don't pay the money. If it's 20 years, will they pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U181	Well, that's how Violin actually juggled. From time to time, such a front report appeared that it paid back 25 euros or 30 euros a year. I guess that's what a man meant for ten years. I don't know if he's full or not full for ten years now, but I haven't heard any more front-line reports, so he'll pay the money voluntarily. In reverse, the question was whether the situation of creditors would deteriorate if this 20 year was introduced. The answer is rigidly negative. This certainly cannot deteriorate from one aspect to another. Is the situation improving in practice? I think I would mislead Parliament if I would say that in this 20 year period, all the requirements will be met. Of course, in many cases, it is a person who is insolvent in nature that does not matter whether the claim is valid for 10 years, 20 years or life. Its so-called permanent net position is negative. I am thinking, for example, of drastic tendency criminals. The other way around, when we talk about so-called white-collar crime, that 20 years will certainly force you to consider your actions. In order to proceed in the Estonian space, this 20-year limit could be of a daunting nature, an additional fact that makes you wonder whether it is really worth committing these acts on the territory of Estonia, where the Estonian legal order is in force. But if we ask whether this change should contribute to the realisation of the victims' claims, yes, from this point of view, this draft is included. Would that ensure that in all cases? The answer is, of course, 'no' for certain people, neither the amount of the claim nor the time limit is of any importance. Where there's nothing to take, there's nothing to take in any time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U182	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U183	Mr. Minister! Who wrote this explanatory note?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U184	To such an honest question, I answer honestly, why should I spin? This explanatory memorandum has been prepared by the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice; part of the impact analysis has been prepared by the Adviser to the Ministry of Justice, Pillerin Lindsalu. The bill has been editorially edited by Mrs. Taima Kiisverk. The author of the substance, who describes this form of 'change' and its logic, even in the case of the intention to develop, is Mr Indrek Niklus, Head of the Private Legal Service of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U185	Thomas Vitsu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U186	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! To continue with Mr Adams's question, I would like to ask whether any of the credit institutions or representative organisations of credit institutions have visited the Ministry of Justice for officials or specifically for you to pay attention to the fact that such a problem exists and it should definitely be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U187	No, it's not. And now, to say that they could lobby, I would certainly have lobbied, according to their logic, in order to extend this deadline precisely in the case of debt relations affecting them. When we talk about credit institutions, the credit institution issues loans and these loans are owed. The limitation period shall be ten years. Today's draft also concerns credit institutions, but only with regard to bank robberies. If a bank robber robs money from credit institutions, the requirement would apply for 20 years instead of 10 years. Their position in the core business of credit institutions will not change according to this draft. Apart from the hypothetical possibility of recovering money from a bank robber, the draft does not make the position of credit institutions any better or worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U188	Many thanks to the ministers for their presentation and for their answer to the questions. The presentation of the commission is made by Hardi Volmer, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U189	Dear Vice-Chairman, Respectables! I will give an overview of the preparation of the first reading of the 627 SE in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the first reading of the draft at its meeting on 11 June, with Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice and Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law at the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister explained that the purpose of the draft is to establish a situation in which the limitation period for the claim arising from an enforceable title provided for in the legal order would be fair and would take account of the substantive reasons underlying the claim against the debtor. According to the draft law, the extension of the limitation period is intended to increase the creditor's rights in a situation where the debtor has unlawfully caused him damage within the meaning of Chapter 53 of the Law of Obligations Act or by a criminal offence and the creditor's claim is recognised by means of an enforceable document, such as a final judgment. Pursuant to § 157 (1) of the current TÜS, any claims recognised by an enforceable title shall expire within a period of 10 years. While the ten-year limitation period laid down in current law can generally be considered fair and justified, there are a number of requirements where, however, it does not fully correspond to a sense of justice in society and where it is reasonable and appropriate to give priority to the interests of the creditor affected. These claims are claims arising out of the unlawful production of damage and amounts awarded under a civil action in criminal proceedings. The draft seeks to extend the limitation period for the claims referred to from 10 to 20 years and thus substantially improve the legal position of the creditor. The members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were in principle supportive of the draft. There was no substantive debate or dispute. All procedural decisions were adopted by consensus and were as follows: Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 12 September. The consensus was complete: Külliki Kübarsepp, Hardi Volmer, Jaanus Kariliid, Liisa Oviir, Olga Ivanova, Peep Aru, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Uno Kaskpeit, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. Full cooperation, as the Estonian language says nicely, but we still use the common foreign expression: full consensus. Thirdly, it is proposed that the deadline for amendments, including 26 September, be re-established at 4 p.m. Fourthly, to reconvene as rapporteur Liisa Oviir, but in connection with the departure of Liisa Oviir from the Riigikogu, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided at its meeting on 10 September to appoint Hardi Volmer as rapporteur for the committee. That too was a fine consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U190	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U191	Thank you, Mr President. I must admit that when Külliki's Hatter explained to me and the whole group that such a draft was in the process, I did not understand what we were talking about. I have had the opportunity to run the procedure twice in the Riigikogu for the General Part of the Civil Code Act, and I have also been the head of the adoption of the Law of Obligations Act and have been standing here at the remote during the time of making that long law. And on the basis of this earlier knowledge, I did not understand what this problem was about in this case, why the deadlines have suddenly turned out to be wrong. In my opinion, these deadlines were very good, right and in full harmony with those of the neighbouring countries. So what's happened now? And just now, listening to Mr. Minister's speech, I was not in the hall, but I listened to him through the speaker, and I began to realize that we have reached an extremely embarrassing situation in a certain legal misunderstanding. The reason for this embarrassment is that the word 'claim' is being used in a place where it should not be used. It has been used simultaneously in a number of different ways. In different laws, the word is homonyms in different meanings, and it is also quite clear that the users of the law will eventually be completely confused about what is still being discussed. We are starting from the fact that during the Soviet era there was no such branch of law that we were restored and whose name is private law. This means that all Soviet lawyers who remained in work had to learn this whole new line of law. This did not work very well, and a number of these people have caused confusion as lecturers at various educational institutions for the next generations of students, to say the least. The problem begins from the fact that the word 'claim' is only a concept of private law. Let's say I've ever been talking to someone, for example, Mrs Aruga, about some sort of money, and now the situation is that I feel that she owes me 1,000 euros. As long as I feel he owes me, but I haven't told him that dear Krista, please pay me the 1,000 euros you owe me, as long as there is no claim. The request starts from the moment I give him an oral or written statement that please pay me the money you owe me. It is not called a requirement, but it is very important! This is the submission of a claim. And the general time limit for filing a claim in the law is quite correct: claims can be submitted for ten years. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U192	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U193	If I haven't told him in ten years to pay me the EUR 1000, then I don't have the legal right to get that money back. As a rule, the recognition of a claim following the lodging of a claim is in two phases. First, private law assumes that, in general, the debtor voluntarily acknowledges that he is in debt and then agrees on the exact amount of the debt and the deadline or schedule for the repayment of the money. This is one way of making a claim and satisfying a claim. The other way is the way to argue. If he says Jüri, you're wrong, I don't owe you, but I'm still messing with you, then I can go to court and the court will decide which one of us is right and how this thing has to be solved. This is a standard method of private law. There are now several questions. In addition to this limitation period, the question is whether there must be a deadline for the debt to be extinguished. From the Bible, we know that the Jewish people in ancient times had a 50 - year term: every 50 years, all debts were extinguished. Now, Estonia's law has always been based on the principle that it does not last for hundreds of years to brag about the fact that someone still owes someone. Inflation has eaten the value of this money anyway, but still in the third and fourth generations we are talking about this debt. So, yeah, maybe that's the last deadline. But this applies only to cases where the claim has been accepted voluntarily and not to court orders. Now, I don't know who these people are who have gone so far that they think that if the court says that you have to pay out the damages to someone else, such as the victim of the damage, it is right to say 'claim' in these matters. These are not requirements. These are obligations, commitments. The Minister, of course, does not understand this. And it seems that a whole bunch of his officials don't understand it either. So I think this bill must remain in the process, but it cannot be dealt with in this form. These things basically need to be separated. We are now faced with a situation where the word 'claim' is also being used in other areas of life. And there are other problems, for example, the term 'guilty', which has two completely different meanings in criminal law and civil law. These meanings do not coincide with each other. This is particularly confusing for journalists who have not studied law. In general, however, the Minister here spoke of the fact that, with the help of poorly educated lawyers, debtors and crooks in some year, the number of which I do not know, had, as a result of so-called confusion, achieved an early reduction in their tax obligations. This is, of course, a disgrace, and I must admit that, until the Minister's hearing, I was not at all aware that such a thing had been done in the meantime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U194	There are no more requests to speak, and the Minister does not want to speak anymore. Then we will talk about this issue, to which my colleague, Jüri Adams, also referred, or the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 627. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 26 September. After that, all these proposals can still be incorporated into the draft if you wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U195	Next, eighth item: First reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act (645 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Siim Kisler, Minister for the Environment of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U196	Honourable manager! Honourable Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act has been drawn up under the direction of the Ministry of the Environment, but in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. And the changes proposed to you are intended to earn maximum public income for society for using one of Estonia's most valuable natural resources in business. The maximum profit can be earned if the mining right fee depends on the market value of the product produced from the extracted oil shale. The fee for the oil shale mining right will be calculated on the basis of the average market price of electricity or heavy fuel oil, of course, if the Riigikogu approves it. Currently, the rate of charge for oil shale mining rights depends on the average world market price of heavy fuel oil with a sulphur content of 1%. At the same time, more electricity and less oil are produced than oil shale. The calculations show that, in the case of low fuel oil prices, but in the case of average electricity prices, the right to extract oil shale used for electricity could have been higher. For example, in the third quarter of this year, the current system provided for a fee of EUR 1 and 58 cents per tonne for oil shale mining rights. This corresponds to an average price of heavy fuel oil of EUR 342 per tonne. This EUR 1.58 applies since the current remuneration system began to be implemented. From the third quarter of 2015, this is the highest rate of remuneration. Before that, it ranged from EUR 0.275 to EUR 0.845, corresponding to a tonne of oil prices of EUR 126 to EUR 292. The average electricity price last year was 33 euros per megawatt-hour. This is a better market situation in terms of revenue than oil and would allow for a higher rate of remuneration. At the same time, other costs, mainly the price of CO2, which have a significant impact on the capacity of electricity generation and therefore on public revenue, must also be taken into account when assessing the economic impact of setting the electricity rates. While the average price of CO2 in 2017 was 5,7 euros per tonne, in recent weeks the price has increased at a very rapid rate and already exceeds 25 euros per tonne. In conclusion, the new oil shale mining fee rates will have to guide companies towards more efficient oil shale enhancement and the use of the best available technology. The higher the prices on the world market, the more revenue the country receives. The more efficient production is, the more a single unit will benefit the company. On this basis, we propose the following amendments to the Environmental Charges Act. Firstly, the oil shale mining right fee is set at a ceiling of EUR 10 per tonne instead of EUR 6,39. In the case of high prices, the current ceiling is too restrictive. At this point, I would stress that the law only gives a mandate for different pricing of liquid fuels and electricity. The Act also amends the Government of the Republic's regulation, which provides for a specific scale of the rates. The ceiling of EUR 10 per tonne for the oil shale mining right would correspond to EUR 651 per tonne for the world market price of heavy fuel oil and EUR 104 per megawatt-hour for the market price of electricity in the Estonian price area. Over the course of history, market prices have not reached these levels, but such a situation is not excluded. With the following point in this draft, oil shale is divided into oil shale used for the production of electricity or for the cogeneration of electricity and heat and oil shale used for the production of liquid fuel or other products or used for fuel purposes. The rate of charge for oil shale used in the production of electricity will depend on the average exchange price of electricity in the Estonian price area; the rate of charge for oil shale used in the production of liquid fuels will continue to depend on the price of fuel oil with a sulphur content of 1% on the world market. In order to implement everything described above, the basis for the calculation of the oil shale mining right fee based on the use shall also be laid down. The fee will continue to be declared by the miner, but will be based on the data from oil shale users on oil shale used for the production of electricity and heat energy and used for other purposes. Therefore, there is an additional obligation that users of oil shale provide the extractor with further confirmation of the quantities of shale used and purchased and the production volumes of the respective products. The remaining amendments relate to all these amendments and are of a technical nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U197	Raivo Põldaru, first question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U198	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Question: how does raising charges affect the price of electricity paid by consumers? Electricity has already increased, can we now predict an even greater increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U199	Thank you. The price of electricity produced will be on the stock market, as mentioned here, on the basis of Nord Pool. And it's more likely to affect how competitive our electricity producer is. In this case, when it comes to producing oil shale electricity, we are talking about Eesti Energia. If electricity is available on the stock market at a lower price than Eesti Energia can offer, then it will be purchased elsewhere and Eesti Energia will not be able to sell. If Eesti Energia can produce at the price that corresponds to the demand of the stock market, it can sell. In summary, it is our interest that our local electricity producer will be able to sell the electricity it produces to be competitive. This means a higher offer, and indirectly also that if there are more bidders, competitive producers, the price should be more favourable. If there were to be a situation that our large electricity producer would not be competitive on the market and, as a result, there would be less supply, it would rather lead to higher prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U200	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You are saying here that this new system divides the environmental charges into two: the production of oil shale electricity and heat energy on the one hand and the production of liquid fuel on the other. Have the authors of this draft also considered that companies involved in the production of liquid fuel or other complicated products will be created in Estonia, or which companies are we talking about at all? Maybe we could talk about it clearly. The place where this distinction is made has also referred to the analysis of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and page 9 of the explanatory memorandum indicates that the Ministry has analysed various oil shale-related fee systems. Are these analyses available anywhere? I do not think there is a clear reference to them in the explanatory memorandum, not to mention that they are included in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U202	Thank you. These analyses are certainly available. I'll contact the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and we'll give you these tests. But the first part of the question was whether we are thinking of the new players in the market for oil production. This system, which I have pointed out here, will not change the taxation of oil shale if it is produced with oil, it will remain the same. They're raising top rates, but it's broadly true. For oil producers, the problem is rather that, since no decision has been taken by the legislator on this separation and separate remuneration systems so far, the government has extended the ladder of current rates for one year. The concern of oil producers is that they do not have the long-term certainty of where it will end. The current system is in force until 31 December of this year and what happens after 1 January? If an oil producer goes to a financial institution to finance his activities or to ask for a loan to make an investment and is asked how much you will pay in the future, he does not have a specific answer. In this sense, this law gives producers confidence. Does this mean that there will be new players on the market, which I cannot appreciate right now. Rather, there is no major change in oil production, which simply gives confidence to the company. The point is that for the electricity producer, this charge will depend on the price of the electricity. The end is a situation where the environmental charge for the electricity producer depends instead on the price of oil, which does not make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U203	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You explained the draft law on the basis of the company, the producer. I ask about the single-phrase comment in the draft law. Why was this amendment of the law not used to take account of the regional policy aspect as well? The fee paid to the municipality for one tonne of mining is currently EUR 0,275. Was it even under discussion to change it? It has now been valid for many years. Or was it not at all a subject in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U205	Thank you. This was not an issue in the context of this draft. But for the sake of clarity, I have submitted two draft laws amending the Environmental Charges Act to the Riigikogu. One that we are discussing today is purely about the remuneration for the use of oil shale. The second draft is a bit broader, talking about the principles and system of using environmental charges. Today's draft talks about how we collect fees in one area more narrowly, just one resource, and in the second draft we propose to change the current system, how the fees are received by the Environmental Investment Centre and how the use of this money takes place. I understand that the procedure for the second draft is planned in such a way that, next Monday, it should be held in the Committee on the Environment in the debate before the first reading, and then probably the time for the large hall will be set. In the context of this draft, I think it is more appropriate to discuss this issue. Both drafts are actually draft amendments to the same law, but one focuses on collecting fees and the other on using them. Perhaps in the case of the second, your debate on the subject and, if necessary, your amendments would be better suited.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U206	Aivar Surva.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U207	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In fact, my question concerns what Mr Krista asked. This excavation fee ceiling, I don't know, maybe it's a number game, but it was, as I recall, 27.5% of the 2009 ceiling. Right now, I'm looking at that percentage that's been reduced ten times when we're talking about this proportion. But indeed, for municipalities, this rate has not been raised for a very long time and this is not the only fee for municipalities where oil shale is extracted. And one more thing I remembered was that local authorities were not involved at all in the negotiations. Let me get this straight. This is going to be corrected by the next amendment of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U208	Each year, before the adoption of the country's budgetary strategy and the submission of the state budget in the Joint Committee, there will be negotiations with representatives of the Government of the Republic, on the one hand, and local government associations, on the other, now the Union. These topics are discussed every time. I myself have been co-chairing this committee for years, and there it has been under discussion. I think the local government associations have mentioned this issue every year. All in all, this is a major question of choice in which channels we finance local authorities. One is definitely pollution charges and their implementation, the other is owner's revenue, which can also be seen as mining rights. How the owner's income is used, this is definitely a forum for discussion and choices. In a broad picture, I think it makes sense for us to move in the direction that local authorities can use their revenues relatively freely and that there is less earmarked allocation. This has in general been the position of the local governments. They could have more revenue lines to use at their own discretion. At the same time, the area of the environment is certainly somewhat special and, ultimately, it is a place of agreement with the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U209	Andres Herkel, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm gonna ask you why this bill is so urgent. The previous questioner pointed out that the municipalities were not involved, the draft was treated as a matter of urgency and not as a normal procedure. Why is it so urgent? And the other part of this question is why this process did not start earlier. You're still linking it to the state budget for next year, aren't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U211	It's been busy for a long time, and yet it's been dragging. In fact, there was hope of being here a year ago with a similar bill, but then the government did not agree to submit this bill to the Riigikogu. And, essentially, at the relatively last moment, the government, on the proposal of the Minister for the Environment, extended the system for one year. And then it was said that it's temporary that we actually want to separate these charges for electricity production and oil production. Now that the Riigikogu still does not adopt this law in this form this year, the government will probably go back to doing a 'temporary solution' for a short period of time, expecting the Riigikogu to make this decision at some point. At present, the government does not have the power to establish a separate fee ladder for oil production and electricity generation. This requires the amendment of the law, which requires the mandate of the Riigikogu. I think that now that the government has reached a joint decision to submit this draft to the Riigikogu, it makes sense to do so. Then, from 1 January next year, it will be permanently enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U212	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U213	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The idea is good, and it's been talked about for a long, long time. However, it is astounding that it is so urgent, that there is no plan for development. And you said that already a year ago, it was discussed in the explanatory memorandum that the purpose of this bill was to take as much resource fee as possible from existing oil shale users. Was this as high a resource fee as possible even greater than the current one, and then the government did not come to a clear understanding of what it is as much as possible at the moment, that it is now necessary to act over and above and without the intention of being developed? The idea itself is good, but open up some cards!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U214	Thank you. With this objective, which I pointed out at the beginning of this presentation, that the maximum rate should be increased, there have been no problems. As I said, today this maximum theoretical rate has not been reached, but we cannot rule out such a situation. Discussions, disputes have been about what the ladder should be for electricity generation, where this ladder should start in the case of electricity generation: how low or high it should be if the price of electricity is low. By the maximum possible remuneration, we mean that if there is a favourable market situation, if the production is well paid on the market and the company receives a good payment for it, it will share this fee, the income with the actual owner of this resource, the Estonian state. At present, remuneration is only related to the price of oil and, if the price of oil is very high, but the price of electricity is very low, then the electricity producer should also pay a very high fee and there is a risk that it will become uncompetitive because the price of electricity is low. According to the law, we should still charge him a large resource fee. That's how these scissors develop. Real life, as I have also pointed out in my presentation, has been rather such that if the system that we are now offering had been in place, there would have been more environmental charges in the state budget, because the ratio between electricity and oil prices has been more like this. But theoretically, the opposite might also arise. Of course, it must always be stressed that the price of electricity, and how competitive our big electricity producer Eesti Energia is in the production of oil shale electricity, will have a great impact already, but it will increasingly affect the price of the quota of CO2. This will affect prices more.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U215	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U216	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum states quite precisely that the purpose of the law is to make a fair profit for the State on the basis of the market price of oil shale products. But when we talk about the oil shale market, we need to talk about two companies: the Viru Chemistry Group and Eesti Energia. And unfortunately, the position of Eesti Energia and Viru Chemistry Group on the market is different. The state-owned Eesti Energia is in a monopoly position when using oil shale, and so is the situation where the Viru Keemia Group must buy oil shale for itself from Eesti Energia. My question is this: how can the Viru Chemistry Group still bring the same revenue to the State by paying environmental charges in this situation? Will anything change in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U217	Thank you. As far as I know, Eesti Energia is not the only oil shale miner; there are practically at least two more of these miners. And the VKG is also active in oil shale mining. There have been very heated disputes between Eesti Energia and VKG about oil shale purchased and sold in the past. I hope that these disputes will be resolved and that this purchase and sale will be possible in the future. So the production of oil shale by Eesti Energia is certainly not in a monopoly position. Similarly, speaking of the electricity market, it is often said that Eesti Energia is in a monopoly position. No, Eesti Energia is not in a monopolistic position as a producer of electricity for a long time, but acts as a relatively small player in Nord Pool's sense on this large stock exchange. So other oil shale miners such as VKG have the opportunity to mine themselves and also to buy from others. And I stress that our charging system depends on the market price of the final product. In a situation where others have the opportunity to extract themselves, I do not see injustice here. And I also see no alternative, for example, that we are going to impose different fees on different manufacturers. This would certainly be immediately disputed and contrary to any competition rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U218	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U219	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. Is the balance point you've come up with as a matter of urgency appropriate now? And if so, for how long and how much does the state, if such a design, receive this maximum resource charge in the budget for next year or in this budget period over four years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U220	I would stress that this final exact ladder, when the Riigikogu gives limits to the law, all these exact ranges lay down a government regulation based on the logic of this law. Of course, the question is, how fine are we going to get these ranges? For example, the proposed draft government regulation provides a range of resources fees for each EUR 1 depending on the megawatt-hour price. If the megawatt-hour price is 35 euros, one rate is 36 euros, the other rate is. Jne, etc. was a large long table. I am now indebted to the answer to what this revenue would be next year if we made this change. I can say that, for example, with the average price last year, this would have been higher overall. After all, there is a change for electricity producers. If oil is produced from oil shale, we do not see a change there at the moment. Only for high levels, the maximum moves higher. We've also heard on the news that the price of electricity is going up, it's being discussed in society. And that means that from the electricity producers we would rather get this fee more than the current system. If the price of oil remains the same on the world market and the price of electricity is moving up as it has been, it will certainly mean that more revenue will be received in the Estonian state budget in terms of obtaining environmental remuneration. But I can't predict exact numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U221	Thank you to the Minister. Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, brings to us the debate in the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U222	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen of the environment! This Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 24 May 2018. The objective is to earn a fair return on the state's oil shale as a state-owned energy mineral, based on the market price of oil shale products when determining the level of the oil shale fees. On this basis, a new ceiling on the payment of oil shale mining rights will be introduced by amending the law. The basis for setting the fee rates for oil shale planning rights is based on the value created by oil shale. This is an idea that has actually been spoken of for years. Ultimately, environmental charges are intended to depend on world market prices. By the way, it is important to note that the possible State aid implications have also been assessed in the design of the amendment. The aim is to establish a system of charges whereby the State behaves like a market investor seeking to maximise its income from the mineral resource. According to the State aid analysis carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, one criterion of State aid is not fulfilled in the present case: the granting of an advantage by the public authority, i.e. the State, to any undertaking. As one criterion is certainly not met, there is no need to analyse the other three State aid criteria. Therefore, the proposed system of fees for oil shale mining law is not linked to State aid issues. The Committee on the Environment also discussed the draft at its meeting on 12 June, where the Commission proposed to send the draft to its first reading by today, 12 September, and set by consensus the deadline for amendments to 26 September at 16 a.m. In short, decisions. The Commission decided by consensus to appoint Rainer Vakra as rapporteur for the draft. It was also proposed to stop reading the draft at the plenary session of the Riigikogu. This decision was also made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U223	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions. I will open negotiations to the representatives of the political groups, if you wish. That's not what you want. As we have just heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 645 SE. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 4 p.m. on 26 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U224	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft Act of Accession (644 SE) to the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits from their Use, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of the Environment Siim Kisler, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U225	Honourable manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! To clarify the content of this long-named draft, I would like to say the following. In order to ensure the adequate protection of one of the objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity, genetic resources, a Protocol on the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits of Access to and Use of Genetic Resources, called the Nagoya Protocol, was adopted already in Nagoya in 2010. It was adopted in 2010 and entered into force on 12 October 2014. There are currently 106 participants in the protocol. The purpose of the Protocol is to ensure a fair and equitable distribution of all revenue arising from the use of materials of plant, animal, microbiological or other origin. Use within the meaning of this Protocol shall be research and development in the genetic and/or biological composition of genetic resources. Therefore, it does not concern ordinary consumers, it concerns R &amp; D activities. The Protocol has been drawn up in particular for the protection of genetic resources in countries with high biodiversity. Countries such as India, Mexico, the Philippines and a number of African countries have been kept in mind. According to the Protocol, each country has the right to impose a restriction on access to its natural resources. Once this restriction has been imposed, the use can only take place under mutually agreed conditions with the owner of the genetic resource. From European countries, access restrictions of this kind have been imposed by Spain and France, for example. Estonia has not planned to impose any restrictions on access to its genetic resources; in future we may consider this once we have joined. The Nagoya Protocol concerns research and development institutions in particular. And that means that those involved in our research and development must be prepared to prove the legitimate acquisition, or origin, of any plant, animal or microbiological material used in their work. And these authorities are subject to certain reporting obligations, such as the origin of the genetic resource, its description, etc. The Nagoya Protocol was approved by the European Union on 16 May 2014 and adopted, for its implementation, a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on compliance measures in the Union for users under the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits from their use. In this context, it is important to note that the user's obligations under this Protocol apply to traditional knowledge of genetic resources which has been obtained after 12 October 2014 from a Contracting Party to the Nagoya Protocol. 17 of the Member States of the European Union have acceded to the Nagoya Protocol. Why does Estonia join? By joining this protocol, Estonia will contribute to protecting the world's biodiversity and fair distribution of the income from the exploitation of biodiversity. This protocol concerns a wide range of and diverse areas from plant breeding to development in the field of cosmetics. The national rules necessary for the processing of this bill and the implementation of the relevant European Union regulation have already been established in Estonia. On 19 June last year, the Riigikogu approved an amendment to the Nature Conservation Act, which introduced all these requirements. This law came into force last July 15th. This Act also laid down the Estonian authorities competent to ensure compliance with the Nagoya Protocol and provided the basis for monitoring compliance with the requirements of the Protocol and imposing a penalty in the event of an infringement. These competent authorities are the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs. And now the Act of Accession designates the Ministry of the Environment as the liaison body for the Nagoya Protocol. To sum up this long and complicated story, I assure you that we have national legislation for the implementation of the Nagoya Protocol. The aforementioned law has created preconditions for accession to the Nagoya Protocol last year and we do not need to further amend or adopt Estonian laws for this purpose. In essence, we have already established this area of justice arising from the European Union, and we are now formally joining the Nagoya Protocol with ourselves. This year, the Ministry of the Environment and the other competent authorities are primarily concerned with raising awareness of the importance of meeting universities, information and so on, so that our research institutions can understand the nature of this additional obligation. As far as expenditure is concerned, the mandatory expenditure on becoming a party to this Protocol for Estonia is a contribution to the basic budget of the Convention. This contribution shall be determined on the basis of the United Nations Standard Assessment Scale. It is expected that our membership fee will be in the order of 1300 euros per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U226	Krista Arul has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have already touched on this information about R &amp; D institutions for a moment, but have R &amp; D institutions already been informed that such a change will come? I read here that, in fact, this is also very much about our natural collections, there will be some kind of monitoring reporting. Or is this great work still ahead of us, but is the Riigikogu already working on the draft and adopting the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U228	Thank you. Since this law or these requirements entered into force in Estonia already last year, this communication has been done earlier and, as far as I know, two such reports have already been submitted in Estonia. So, in fact, those affected who actually want to use the genetic resources of another country for research should be kept informed. But like I said, we're gonna make another explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U229	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U230	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! We are talking about fair and equitable distribution of income. Since it seems to us that we have already dealt with this matter and that there are laws, is something going to tick for our country or for these companies, research institutions? How's that distribution? Maybe you could explain a little bit about how it is practically.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U231	Thank you. As I said, this could mean additional agreement and compensation for some research institutions in another country. As I said, from European countries, for example, Spain and France have imposed restrictions on access, as far as I know, to certain types of orchids in Spain. In Estonia, we do not currently intend to impose any such restrictions on access, but if, for example, we have some very original plant used for development purposes, we basically have this possibility after joining this protocol. If, for example, in India it is decided to do some research using some unique genetic resource available in Estonia, then in theory we have the opportunity to introduce this access restriction and enter into negotiations on how to obtain fair compensation for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U232	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U233	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As the former director of the music of nature, I'm actually interested. However, this explanatory memorandum states that Estonia does not really intend to impose any restrictions on access, although there are very interesting genetic resources in Estonia's collections. But explain to me in Estonian what this sentence in the explanatory memorandum means that there are no so isolated local communities in Estonia, for which one or the other knowledge related to the use of genetic resources can be stated with certainty from this region. What does that mean? What communities? What regions? Besides, it's an evaluation by the Ministry of Culture. What does that mean in the language of the earth?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U234	In particular, such an internationally agreed language speaks of the tribes of the indigenous people. I assume this expression is relatively accurate. I would point out, for example, that in some areas, for example, Indian tribes use a plant in their own unique way and know that it has a healing effect, and some large pharmaceutical industry decides to take advantage of this special knowledge and make a very hard profit from it. The point is, then we should discuss with this Indian tribe how the Indian tribe, who may have used this plant there for hundreds of years or more, could benefit from it. I am not able to give similar examples of Estonia at the moment. But if we are a party to this convention, or rather to this protocol, why not, if in some Estonian communities there is a knowledge of how to use genetic resources in this way, to use a unique plant very successfully, it will certainly open up such opportunities for us. It's just that the Ministry of Culture didn't know how to give any such good examples right now, and neither can I.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U235	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Does this law include, in any way, the problem of genetically modified plants? We know that the European Union is currently working closely on the question of whether to allow American modified maize to be grown and used as feed in Europe, etc. Does this issue fall under this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U237	No, it doesn't belong to it. We are talking about accession to the Protocol and it concerns the genetic resources available in nature, not the organisms or resources generated by development. Nor does this concern the breeding of varieties in agriculture. For example, if someone is breeding or inventing a product on a beet basis, it doesn't belong here. So agriculture is not directly concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U238	Thank you very much. The debate in the Committee on the Environment brings Terje Trei to us. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the first reading of the draft Act on Accession to the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits from the Use of Genetic Resources of the Convention on Biological Diversity was held in the Committee on the Environment on Tuesday 12 June. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, who presented the draft in detail here a moment ago, and Taimo Aasma, Head of the Department of Nature Conservation, Ministry of the Environment also attended the meeting. Members of the Commission asked for further clarification as to whether accession to the Protocol would lead to additional obligations and the need to amend existing laws and the level of membership fees. Taimo Aasma replied that the obligations of the Estonian Protocol have already been legally transposed by the Nature Conservation Act Act in 2017. According to the draft, Estonia will officially become a party to the Nagoya Protocol and this will also give us the right to vote. No new obligations should be added. Universities already implement protocol requirements and the Ministry of the Environment is in constant contact with them in this respect. The Member State's contribution amounts to around EUR 1300 per year. By consensus, the Commission made the following procedural decisions: to appoint a member of the committee, Terje Trei, as rapporteur for the draft, to propose that the first reading of the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 September 2018, to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 26 September at 16 a.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-12_U240	Thank you very much. No questions for the waitress. Is there a wish to open negotiations? The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 644. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 26 September. One of Estonia's natural resources, which the President thought about during the debate, is one plant that is being searched for on Midsummer Day, but Estonians have not found it, so the Hindus have nothing to explore. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 4.49 p.m.
