ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, hello! We will begin the Monday session of the 5th working week of the VIIIth plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of our group, I am discussing an inquiry, which is inspired by the news that people in Estonia are being heard on a massive scale and are being followed by citizens. Since 4596 calls have been eavesdropped on Telia's Estonian network, which is ten times more than in Sweden or Denmark, we are curious about the reason for which such amounts of eavesdropping permits have been issued. Has the increase in the number of surveillance activities increased the detection rate? If yes, is the increase proportional to the number of permits issued? Eavesdropping is a violation of people's fundamental rights. Why has there been an unbridled use of this particular type of surveillance, even though the law also provides opportunities for the use of other surveillance activities that are less damaging to a person's fundamental rights? The last question: has there been an eavesdropping from 2015 to this day, touches, respectable, including all of you members of the Riigikogu, the persons associated with them and the political groups of the Riigikogu? If so, for what reason? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U3	I hope the inquisitors will find a way to enter in this inquiry the name of the member of the Government of the Republic to whom the inquiry has been submitted. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching 12 draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Law of Proof and related amendments to other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act. Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law on international sanctions. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the flag law of the ship and the Ship Registers Act and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Civil Status Act, the Population Register Act and the State Fees Act, and the draft law amending the Population Register Act and related other laws. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. Seventh, draft law on higher education, eighth, draft law of Tallinn University, ninth, draft law of the Estonian Academy of Arts, tenth, draft law of the Estonian University of Life Sciences, eleventh, draft law of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, and draft law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, when dealing with the abovementioned six draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U5	I have adopted 12 drafts and, in the opinion of one of the respondents, a document qualifying for consultation. We act with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 81 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the fifth working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U6	The first question to be heard on our agenda is the members of the Riigikogu Maris Lauri, Urve Tiidus, Arto Aas, Aivar Sõerd, Meelis Mälberg, Yoko Alender, Heidy Purga, Madis Milling, Kalle Laanet, Urmas Kruuse, Igor Gräzin, Anne Sulling, Johannes Kert, Laine Randjärv, Peep Aru, Ants Laaneots, Liina Kersna, Jüri Jaanson, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Terje Trei and Aivar Surva. Maris Lauri, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Members of the Reform Party Group submitted an inquiry on 22 August on why the government did not want to address the problem of border trade. Border trade in itself is a natural phenomenon, but what is happening on the Estonian and Latvian borders has long been unnatural. We have seen that the revenue from excise duties in the budget is well below forecast. According to the press release of 13 August, 35.8% of the excise duty on alcohol, 42% of the excise duty on tobacco and 44% of the excise duty on fuel were received. These figures were significantly lower than in previous years, i.e. forecasts have become much worse. When the Centre Party was still in opposition in October 2016, it wanted to know whether the government was coordinating excise rates with its neighbours and was convinced that this should be done. On 21 August, however, the Prime Minister announced that he did not discuss alcohol policy with his Latvian colleague, and he also said that excise policy is being pursued by each country itself. Then it felt like you didn't have to see what was happening next door. More information has come in these few months, in particular on the extent of border trade. It is no longer just about alcohol, fuel and tobacco. We know that alcohol consumption has increased and other areas have been significantly affected. In addition to alcohol and fuel, construction materials and other goods are increasingly being purchased from Latvia. As a result, not only food shops in South Estonia, but also other shops, no longer suffer. A recent survey from last week indicates that the reduction in excise duties on alcohol allows revenue to be paid to the state budget for EUR 100 million. Yet there does not seem to be a change. Even according to the assessment of the Ministry of Finance, reversing this process would have led to some drawbacks, but we can always ask whether we have to turn back as sharply as the calculations of the Ministry of Finance were, but the current government decided that this potential cost, 30 million, would be spent on government-side roofing money. Well, that shows what choice is considered important. Just based on the real situation, the way the Centre Party's views have changed as if in two years, we asked the Prime Minister five questions to which we would like meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U8	The questions will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and the answer time will be 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U9	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you very much for your questioning. I'll give you the answers. The truth is, August 22nd. a the Reform Party Group submitted an inquiry entitled 'The Government's unwillingness to deal with border trade'. There are a lot of questions here, five questions in total, and I will also provide answers to these questions. I have seen before that some of the signatories are now in the European Parliament, such as Mr Gräzin. So some have moved on from this Riigikogu to the European Parliament and are now standing there, I believe, for the Reform Party and for its own principles. But the first question: 'How much higher are the excise rates in force in Estonia than in Latvia? How much of this difference in excise duty has resulted in more work for the Tax and Customs Board in the fight against smuggling? ' Since the inquiry focuses on border trade, i.e. cross-border trade, I would like to mention the differences in excise duties between the three main items affecting border trade compared to Latvia. It is important to add that this is data from the Ministry of Finance. It has been more common for excise duties on alcohol to be higher in Estonia than in Latvia. At the moment, excise duty on beer in Estonia is 149% higher than in Latvia, but I stress that excise duty on beer has been higher in Estonia over the years than in Latvia. For example, in 2009, this rate was higher by 141%, in 2014 by 103%, in 2015 by 133% and in 2016 by 98%. The excise duty on strong alcohol in Estonia is 50% higher than the excise duty on Latvia. At its meeting on 26 September, the government unanimously adopted a decision, and the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws 669 was initiated in the Riigikogu, which eliminates the increase in excise duties on alcohol planned for 2019 and 2020. When the changes enter into force, the difference in excise duty rates will decrease to 109% in 2020, with the difference in excise duty on spirits likely to decrease to 24% if Latvia increases excise duty as planned and Estonia will not increase the excise duty on strong alcohol in the next two years. How exactly is it going is decided by the new Latvian coalition and the XIV Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia and the next coalition. Secondly, the difference in the price of tobacco products compared to Latvian prices is not significant. As part of the rate of excise duty on cigarettes depends on the retail price of products, the amount of excise duty calculated on the basis of the weighted average retail price of cigarettes gives a clearer picture of the excise duty comparison. The weighted average retail price of cigarettes in Latvia is EUR 159.98 per 1000 cigarettes, according to the table of excise duty rates of the Member States of the European Union of 1 July 2018, and the excise duty payable on this price is EUR 106.6. The price in Estonia is 177,7 euros, which makes 3.55 euros per package, and the amount of excise duty is 122,75 euros. Third, excise duties on petrol are approximately 18% higher in Estonia than in Latvia, there are 563 euros of excise duty on petrol per 1000 litres in Estonia and 476 euros in Latvia. Diesel fuel has been taxed approximately 33% higher in Estonia, but it will decrease to 19% in 2020 if Latvia raises excise duty and Estonia does not increase excise duty in the next two years. According to the Tax and Customs Board, the workload in relation to border trade at the Latvian border has not changed significantly. The number of alcohol-related infringements detected has fallen compared to the same period last year, but the volume of alcohol committed has increased. The second question: 'How much has the loss of Estonian tax revenue increased from excise duties and border trade? ' The calculation of the tax loss due to border trade is theoretical and is based on the assumption that excise goods purchased elsewhere would have been purchased from Estonia. At the same time, the quantities purchased from Latvia are large, mainly because of the low price and would be lower if the price was higher. The trade in alcohol at the border includes those at the southern and northern borders. Border trade at the southern border has increased and has decreased at the northern border, so Estonia's tax revenue is decreasing due to what is happening at both borders. At the northern border, border trade is mainly made up of purchases by Finns, which has decreased by around 23% this year compared to last year. The border trade at the Latvian border accounts for 24.7% of the liters legally sold in Estonia, together with the purchases of Estonians in Latvia. Sales at the Latvian border also include Finnish purchases and a large part of the purchases at the northern border are likely to have been made in Latvia. On the basis of the quantities of border sales at the Latvian border, we will estimate the excise duty due to border trade this year to approximately EUR 66 million, including VAT to EUR 89 million. The price difference between tobacco products and Latvia is not high, so the volume of border trade is rather modest. This year we will estimate the excise duty due to tobacco border trade at EUR 5.4 million, including VAT at 6.8 million. Fuel border trade concerns diesel in particular. The positive economic situation has increased both the quantities of diesel reported and the volume of border trade. A jumping increase in border trade in the fuel sector took place since 2016. Fuel refuelling in Lithuania and Latvia increased significantly, resulting in a loss of 33.3 million excise revenue for the country in 2018. The third question: 'Do you think that border trade has risen sharply for Estonia and, if so, how do you intend to deal with it? ' Border trade is a problem because there is no tax revenue for purchases made abroad. In addition to the loss of tax revenue, border trade makes it difficult to achieve other objectives of alcohol policy, such as reducing alcohol consumption. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that the free movement of goods is one of the fundamental rights of the European Union, as a result of which Estonia's consumption trends are influenced by what is happening in neighbouring countries, but this effect also works the other way around. In recent years there has been a significant increase in the price difference between Estonian and Latvian prices for several product groups and the price difference between some products has decreased compared to Finland. I would point out that price differences are not merely caused by differences in the rates of excise duty, but are due to a number of reasons. The market situation is mainly influenced by the difference between people's incomes, but also by different national tax policies and their objectives. Question 4: 'Why did you give up the debate on excise duties at the joint session of the Estonian and Latvian governments? Why do you consider that excise policy does not have to take the neighbours into account and do you know how much the neighbours intend to increase their excise rates? " The agenda for the first joint session of the governments dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Latvia held in the National Library of Latvia on 21 August was drawn up in cooperation with the two countries. According to the agenda of the meeting, regional cooperation between Estonia and Latvia, projects concerning regional security, specific energy and transport infrastructure and issues related to digital cooperation were discussed. Indeed, the issue of national excise policy was not on the agenda of the joint session because the excise rates of the various goods fall within the remit of each country and its institutions and are based on the objectives of the policies aimed at the people in that country. In anticipation of your possible questions, I can say that at the joint meeting of the Finnish and Estonian governments held on 7 May, with which we also celebrated the 100th anniversary of both countries, our alcohol excise policy or excise policy on other goods were not discussed. Question 5: "What prevents excise duty from being reduced to stop border trade, as your party has proposed in one of the elections? ' Unlike the leading party of a coalition that ruled a few previous Estonian states, it is not difficult for me to say that the correction of errors can only follow the recognition of errors. The increase in excise duties on alcohol was primarily driven by the desire to reduce alcohol consumption and the related problems in society. In addition, the large difference in excise rates between strong and lean alcohol was reduced. Yes, ambition and expectations turned out to be too great. It has to be acknowledged that analysts who analysed the possible increase in excise duty rates and made forecasts on this basis did not have complete information. As a result, we can see that the real effects have been slightly different in the market situation. The government coalition has abolished the previously legalized increases in alcohol duty. The Ministry of Finance has also adjusted the forecasts of budget receipts. It is also known that the government has halved the increase in excise duty on strong alcohol and beer planned at the beginning of this year. I repeat that the increase in excise duties on alcohol planned for 2019 and 2020 will also be abolished if the law pending before the Riigikogu is adopted. If the honourable Riigikogu permits, I would like to mention that lowering excise duties is not a magic wand in the process of abolishing border trade. Border trade is not only affected by differences in excise rates, but also by margins for sellers, wages and other fixed costs, the purchasing power of residents, purchasing habits and all products that can be bought cheaper across borders. A reduction in excise duty rates is not enough to bring alcohol prices into line with Latvian prices, as alcohol prices in Estonia are also higher than in Latvia without taxes. For example, the price of 0.5 litres of untaxed beer in Estonia is about 34 cents higher than that of the southern neighbours in the Republic of Latvia, although the difference in excise duty is 25 cents higher than in Latvia. There is also a difference in the price of strong alcohol if the tax differences are removed from the comparison. The reduction in excise duty rates does not result in an immediate decrease in alcohol prices as traders hold stocks with old excise duties. Alcohol prices may also not decrease due to traders' goal of maximising profits. The sharp reduction in excise duties on alcohol does not contribute to reaching public health objectives, i.e. reducing alcohol consumption and, in particular, combating excessive alcohol consumption. I do think it is very right that the current government coalition abolished the 10% increase in excise duties on diesel introduced by the previous government in view of economic development and that the excise duty on diesel and petrol will not change in the coming year. The analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance shows that the significant increase in refuelling abroad started in 2016. At present, the biggest increase has been in the number of refuelling operations in Lithuania, since the excise duty rates there are even lower than those in Latvia. The international transport sector is relatively flexible in its choice of place to refuel, and cheap fuel is fueled from a country that suits itself in order to increase competitiveness. Diesel, in turn, is an important cost item for companies and thus affects the prices of many goods and services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U10	Before starting the round of questions, I recall that every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one oral question. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U11	Thank you, good Prime Minister, for this review. But let us admit that the problem is very serious. Shops have been closed in South Estonia, people have real problems there. However, for example, your colleague Janek Mäggi said at a recent meeting, where you too were, that border trade is actually quite nice, I am not quoting literally now and that it has rather had a positive effect on South Estonia. I don't think so. Interestingly, he also said at that meeting that no matter what alcohol policy the country is pursuing, alcohol consumption in the country as a whole will not be affected. Do you agree with your colleague? Coop's leader, Jaanus Vihand, has said that this government will probably not reverse the increase in excise duty. I think it's pretty criminal. What has happened is one of the biggest economic crimes of the period after Estonia regained independence. This is my simple question: what message do you have for the people of South Estonia, is there a change in excise policy or is it not coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U12	Thank you. After all, you can put a dozen questions into one question with skill, and at the end you will say what you think of all these things, just as it applies to the question. But it's not bad at all. Let's open up your question by slices. It is true that we have really met quite intensively (me too) Estonian residents in different areas of Estonia. I think it is the duty of a politician to visit Viljandi, Tallinn, Kärdla, Kuressaare, Põlva, Võru and Narva. Of course, I recommend it to you too. There is nothing to do, but in the best sense, there are solid walls here in Toompea Castle and the Riigikogu Building or the Stenbock House, and the real picture will still come out when you visit the site. This is what I came from when I had the honour of being and working here in the Riigikogu, and I am working on it today. Now, what can you say about Southeast Estonia? I suggest you say, first of all, that the government attaches importance to regional investments, that life does not have to be and must not be possible only at the centres in Tallinn or Tartu. Life must also be on the outskirts of Estonia; it must be in all Estonian cities. I would certainly advise you, if you go to Southeast Estonia, Põlva, Võru or Valga County to meet people, to speak boldly about the biggest tax reform that has been made in this century: an increase in the income tax-free minimum. Think for yourself, if we had gone ahead with the previous increase, this year would have been a minimum of EUR 205! That was the plan. I see some members of the Riigikogu shake their heads. I also believe you don't even want to think about it anymore. Today it is a minimum of 500 euros, and it has added about 64 euros to many people who have a small or average salary. We have also launched the South-East Estonia programme. This is one of the specific ways of contributing to local entrepreneurship and supporting smart ideas. What else do I suggest you say? I'm sure we need to talk about all kinds of connections. Strategic investments have been implemented, be it for the purpose of transport by road or rail. These are definitely the places where I suggest you say the word. You have adopted the budget yourself, you have supported it or, if not, the Riigikogu has adopted it, and this year's budget has given local authorities the strength to provide public services at a higher level, more operationally and better. Let's talk business. You asked more broadly, but I come to the focus of your inquiry, or excise policy. I think the decisions taken at the end of 2016 were actually the right ones for the Estonian economy. That is what the Conjuncture Institute has said. The value added tax (VAT) for economic institutions had been raised to 14% since the end of 2016, we were able to return it to 9% within a few weeks. I don't think it's worth a lift. Of course, I do not think that tourists only go to Pärnu, Tartu or islands; they definitely go to Southeast Estonia. Forward, diesel excise. I gave an example that we made a decision and canceled the increase in excise duties on diesel, which was also planned at the end of 2016, so that it would not rise from 1 January this year. They wanted to raise it by 10%, and it was canceled. If you asked for more suggestions, I think it is important, as I said, to admit mistakes. Mistakes made by the previous government, mistakes made by this government. We have decided that the excise duty on alcohol will not rise, it has been a proposal from the government coalition to the Riigikogu. It will not rise next year, nor will it rise next year. I think these are the right decisions in principle. In addition, we can talk about when you ask about their messages, about greater security in education (the increase in teachers' pay) and about internal security (the increase in police and rescue officials' wages) and about building up the last mile. I think they could be those messages when you asked what to say to these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U13	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U14	Good manager! Good waitress! The changes at the border are actually quite awful. But recently I heard a radio broadcast where my colleague Hanso's guest was a member of the Latvian Seim in Spolit. He said that Northern Latvia has flourished thanks to Estonia's bald excise policy. He said to the question why it has been like this, that in fact it should have been coordinated in the Baltic Assembly, but the delegation of the Estonian Baltic Assembly has not dealt with it. What do you think about that? If the governments did not speak to each other, the Baltic Assembly could have discussed these excise matters among themselves. Was that the case, or is that just the opinion of a Member of a neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U15	Thank you. First of all, when we talk about the excise duty on strong alcohol, it is lower today than it would have been as a result of the legitimate rise of the Reform Party, which was still in force in November 2016. In replying to you about the Baltic Assembly, I honestly say that I appreciate the dimension of the Baltic Assembly. I remember that when I had the opportunity to come to the Riigikogu in 2007, the Baltic Assembly dragged Estonia very hard from Trivimi Velliste's IRL, today's Fatherland. After all, several members of the Riigikogu have carried this out, such as Laine Randjärv, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Aadu Must and certainly many others. I think that the cooperation vision of the Baltic Assembly, which you have pointed out, is very important in order to maintain cooperation, to move forward with it and to communicate within it. There have also been these stories, by the way, right here in the Riigikogu, that we are ending this cooperation of the Baltic Assembly, which is no longer necessary. I'm totally against it. Should different issues be raised there? Sure. But, as I said in my reply, in the end, these decisions are still made by the parliament or the government of any independent, free and democratic Baltic state in its proposal to Parliament. In today's state, when we know that the Latvian elections have just taken place, it is also very difficult to talk about this. The question is who will form the government. To hold serious discussions on this subject, in addition to other important activities of the Baltic Assembly, I do not see anything wrong, but it cannot be binding. You also understand, Mr Ernits, that this cannot be binding on the various Baltic States.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U16	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The sharp increase in alcohol duty has triggered border trade, which has proved to be extremely damaging. But the pretext for raising excise duty on alcohol was still to protect public health and to reduce alcohol damage. As border trade continues, we know or think we know that alcohol harm will not be reduced, because consumption is still the same, only purchased on the other hand and concentratedly. I am asking from a public health point of view: how do you think this current maintenance of border trade, i.e. no reduction in alcohol duty, will affect alcohol damage in particular? In the interests of health, should alcohol excises be reduced or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U18	Thank you. When your question was asked, I understood that, only from a health point of view, I say that, in my opinion, fiscal policy must in any case be secondary, the first must be the public health aspect. Let us see if reducing alcohol excise duties could lead to a reduction in alcohol consumption. I rather think, also on the basis of various estimates, that lowering excise duties on alcohol in Estonia would automatically mean that an important input of alcohol would become cheaper and, therefore, the price of alcohol on the counters would probably also be cheaper. Given the good economic performance (due to our business), and given what Mr Pevkur, a member of the Riigikogu, asked about, that the biggest tax reform in this century has given a lot of people extra money, alcohol has become more accessible in terms of shopping basket. In any case, I think that, in fact, we have still been able to achieve this (this is also demonstrated by statistics), that alcohol consumption has rather started to decline or has remained the same, but in any case it has not started to rise. Point one. Point two is that on the health aspect, I would like to say thank you personally, Mr Jüri Jaanson. I want to say this precisely in the sense that we are now focusing on excise policy, that is correct, and I am not saying that this is wrong, but we could also talk in a preventive way. Why do I want to say thank you? It's no secret. The Estonian Olympic heroes are the ones who have always joined our people and created sports cheers in girls and boys. I think the principle of a healthy spirit in a healthy body carries on the ideal of sport. On the other hand, I think it is important to make every effort to ensure that youth sport has as many circles of interest as possible. There should be as many activities as possible that help to understand that alcohol does not provide more healthy life years, but rather creates great risks. We can see that, unfortunately, we have had many tragic accidents because of alcohol, whether in traffic or in homes where fires occur. So I think we need to look at it on a number of facets.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U19	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U20	Good Prime Minister! However, it seems to me that you are taking this burden of government a little lightly. It's time to take responsibility, you're making the third state budget this year. I understand you have an agreed tactic in the Centre Party that you are accusing the previous government of all government omissions or problems. But I would remind you that you're already doing the third state budget. The circumstances have changed, and the proposal of the Reform Party is that you respond to changed circumstances rather than to cut off the point that some decisions have been made in 2015, which is why we are not going to make any changes. Our proposal is to take account of changed circumstances. Border trade is also a major problem in Northern Estonia. You have promised to complete the city hall next year, which was to bring 55,000 new tourists a day and 20 million a year. It didn't happen. The number of Finnish tourists is also falling and this affects a very wide sector. There is no point in talking about protecting the tourism sector while you are planning to introduce a tourism tax in Tallinn. So I suggest that we take the situation seriously and respond to changed circumstances, not allow it to be done in the future, after the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U21	Thank you. First of all, I am pleased to be able to tell you, honourable member of the Riigikogu, Mr Aas, that we have still been schoolmates at Tallinn University of Technology. So I always take your proposals seriously. You have great experience both in the government and in the Riigikogu. So let's start taking these things apart one by one. First of all, you said I shouldn't blame the others. On the contrary, I said that today's government has made mistakes, I said it out loud. One upsets the other, but one black both, I'd say. The question is who dares to admit mistakes and draw conclusions from them. Indeed, today's government decided to move on with the increase in alcohol excise duty. 2016 started this race, but we have decided and given the Riigikogu, the honourable parliamentary procedure, to cancel the increase in alcohol duty in 2019 and 2020. Next, the fact that things have changed is true. For example, unemployment has fallen dramatically and economic growth was 4.9% in 2017. If it is corrected in a few years' time, as the 2016 figures were corrected, then you should know what will be. But we are talking about what we know at the moment: growth was 4.9%, around 3.6% is planned for this year and also 3% for butter in the coming years. What do I mean by that? Of course, the situation has changed, thanks to entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs. You said city hall. It's a good thing, of course, that the love of the city hall has sprung up in you too. I think it's very right. Indeed, a proper, large tourism and conference centre is needed. You know, Mr. Aas, you are a man with a broad eye, that we always lose conference tourists to other countries and cities. This is where Estonia needs to take a strong step forward. That is what the sector's representatives have said. They say they're looking forward to the city hall. The 40 million promised by the state has not disappeared, it continues to exist in the country's budget strategy. True, documentation, formalising and designing state aid takes time. It's not like we can get past it, it's still going to have to be like order and duty. I think we have received a strong ally in your form, and it also gives assurance that 2019, when there is a new Riigikogu, you will support the completion of our city hall as well. That alone is, in my opinion, a sign. Next, you mentioned a tourism tax. First of all, this tax is not in the Local Government Organisation Act at the moment. Looking at a great many European countries, we see that there is a tax on tourism. For example, in Italy, either the euro or one-and-a-half or two or three euros are taken at night. Could this be the case in Estonia? If you think that the Riigikogu cannot impose it across Estonia, then I think that there should be an opportunity for local government councils to introduce it, it would be possible. If the municipal council cannot actually speak up or increase its income base, this is not a good direction. I'm thinking of Saaremaa parish, for example. If he wants to do this, he might have a chance. Or we can take the city of Viljandi or many important Estonian municipalities, where there are many tourists. So I think we should have a debate on that. Now the tourists from Finland. I just pulled out the latest data. There are certain operators who operate very well between Tallinn and Helsinki, between Estonia and Finland, but the number of tourists has indeed fallen. In general, tourist traffic between Estonia and Finland has remained the same or even slightly increased, but this does not mean that this level of ambition is sufficient for us. In any case, I very much agree with the evidence that you have done that this must be dealt with further, it is necessary to communicate with Finland so that the people of Finland can enjoy more Estonian culture and nature, participate in this economy, and rest here. So I think we have a lot of common platform.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U22	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! As the previous speaker said, you really take your mistakes very lightly. You have said right here in front of the Riigikogu Chamber that 85% of the people won the tax reform. It turned out to be a bluff and a lie. You promised growth, but you got price growth, in forecasts we see a slowdown in economic growth. You promised to invest, but the city hall is decomposing, and with the help of the investments, the wholesale shops will rise to Ainaži and Valka. A little too many mistakes. The biggest bypass is, of course, border trade. I specifically ask whether you recognise this study by KPMG and the taxpayers' association, which has recently been completed and which says that border trade at the Latvian border can be reversed if excise duty is lowered. This would make it possible to generate 100 million revenues. Do you acknowledge the results of this study? If not, please state the reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U24	Thank you. Mr Sõerd, you are always as grumpy as you are, but the Riigikogu does not have the right to say such serious sentences to the government. Let us take the same example in Finland. At the end of the previous answer, I came to the conclusion that I think this is a very important market for Estonia and cannot be taken lightly. You know very well, because of your previous work, I believe that you know this, and you will probably also say it out loud in your group (whether or not the Reform Party recognises this mistake), that if you raise VAT on accommodation establishments from 9% to 14%, it is not a good, positive signal for tourists. I don't know if you admit it or not, but we didn't raise that tax. Today, a representative of the Government of the Republic has handed over another important economic environment, I would say, a favourable and supportive draft, to which, of course, we are asking for your support here. Its theme is bringing merchant ships under the flag of Estonia. I think you will understand the benefits of this because of your previous work experience. Well, what is this, a sea state and a zero cargo ship? This cannot be accepted, and I believe that a stronger step must be taken here. You said there's been a lot of mistakes. This border trade isn't gonna make anyone happy, I totally agree with you on that. This needs to be dealt with seriously. But if you ask me if I agree with the studies that say that if we bring the rate of excise duty to the level of the Latvian rate, like a magic wand, the border trade will disappear, I do not agree with that. I don't know if you admit it or don't admit whether you listened to me or not, but I said it wasn't just about excise duties. This also depends on how much stocks have been stocked, and it also depends on the price of other goods. But in general terms, is there a need for continuous monitoring and, if necessary, for different decisions? It's worth doing, and that's what we've done. The reduction of diesel excise duty caused a negative impact on the new government's budget for 2018. If only it had been taken politically, it shouldn't have done the fall. However, since the principles of the Estonian tax environment were taken into account, the principles of the Estonian economic environment were also taken into account, so that 2018 could not come up with such an increase in excise duties on diesel, this increase was cancelled. The previous government wanted to increase it by 10%. I do not think that if we take excise duty exactly to Latvia's level, then we will get the money out of Estonia, from local consumption. As I have answered Mr Jaanson's question, I believe that the important aspect is whether or not alcohol consumption will increase. The fear is that it would rather increase. On the other hand, you could raise one to one. I get it, though I don't think you quite finish that way, it's very easy to move this line from one place to another in Excel's table, but that's not the way it is in real life. The calculations by the Ministry of Finance also do not say that if we lower excise duties on diesel and alcohol to the same level as, for example, Latvia or Lithuania, all consumption will come here. It doesn't work like the Excel table, it's easy to move this line from one place to another. So, by the way, Estonia was wanted to be run for a long time, using this Excel chart. Life is much more real. What's happening outside the Excel table is real life. But in any case, these tests must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U25	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Raising alcohol duty was the first big step in your government. It's nice of you to admit this mistake right now. There is also this free public transport thing on your political agenda, here you have not admitted a mistake. But I will try to tie these things up and ask you this: how much has free public transport first contributed to border trade? Valka is easier to drive now. But even if Valka is not easier to drive, villages will be driven from villages to county centres, which are elsewhere in Estonia. Perhaps the second part of the question: What effect has it had on the country shops, on their turnover, on their ability to cope?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U27	Thank you. You're really getting out of focus. Of course, the Reform Party has not asked about free public transport, but, of course, if the President does not intervene, I will answer your question. I understand you want to tie free public transport to alcohol excise. It is true that the possibility of free public transport had already been granted to public transport centres in advance and 11 counties had switched from 1 July 2018 to free public transport. I think that a very high percentage of people across Estonia have started to use more public transport. We see an increase of over 80% in some counties. Over 80%! I can only now understand what you asked for. You're so operational when you're asking, I can't catch up with you right now. Your idea must have been that thanks to free public transport, a person goes after vodka at the border. I'm sorry! I will be honest with you, here we have completely different approaches to the Estonian population. I think that an Estonian person travels free of charge to work on public transport, to a cultural institution, theatre, shop, kindergarten, school and village centre. If you say he's going after the vodka, I definitely don't agree with it. Free public transport has indeed shown very good results in 11 counties, but it is interesting that the use of public transport in counties where it is not free is more likely to show growth. It was only this morning that some people, such as my colleagues from Narva, said that the use of trains had gone up and down. I am pleased that Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson has responded to this and that in the coming periods there will be more trains to increase the speed. In my opinion, it could rather be said that the people of Estonia have increasingly begun to appreciate the comfort, environmental and operational nature of public transport. If you still travel by train for one and a half hours or two hours and there's a free internet in there, so you can work and prepare your things, I think it's the right direction. If your question was whether we intend to somehow reverse free public transport within the county after the elections, if the voter gives us a mandate, then the answer is no. I hope the Free Party doesn't do that either. If your opinion really is that people only go for booze with it, I don't agree with it. In any case, they make more substantial and practical daily meals.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U28	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U29	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! You have identified the previous government and government leader here on several occasions as the main culprit for the rise in excise duties. But why have you not taken control and restored the excise policy of the Reform Party before the decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U30	Thank you. First of all, I do not think as bad about Tavi Clothes as you said in your speech. I think Tavi must have done a good job. Every prime minister has stood up for Estonian society and for moving Estonia forward. It wasn't easy for him either in the party or, let's be honest, even in the administration. If you ask whether we have done anything to change the policies pursued by the Reform Party, then of course we have. Well, I guess we're gonna have to put 17 years and two years into consideration. If you ask me that, we'll do different things. I'll start with health care. Access to medical care. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, you asked about the politics of the Reform Party, and I have a duty to answer. Starting with health care, I think that if access to health care is better and queues are shorter, it is important. That's the difference between us. In supporting local governments to be strong and to be able to provide good services, we really do have a difference with the Reform Party. In tax policy, our difference is the same tax-free minimum, that this change would benefit people earning average and low wages. Agriculture: this is not just something to talk about, but really support the agricultural sector. Now the excise policy, which you wanted to emphasise separately in the second half of your question. I have emphasised this several times here and sometimes I feel embarrassed to have to say the same thing so many times, but I understand that if a member of the Riigikogu asks, a member of the government must answer, that is his duty. The Reform Party requested an increase in diesel excise duty in 2018. The VAT rate for accommodation establishments was to be raised to 14%, which remained at 9%. In the case of alcohol duty, I also admit the mistakes of this government, but we have turned the increase in alcohol duty back or canceled it. Compared to the excise duty on strong alcohol planned by the previous government today, we see that the current rate is lower. So these are the answers. Let's talk about diesel excise. What's the problem? This fuel is mainly fueled in Lithuania. If we bring Estonian excise duty to the level of Lithuania, then that means, I think, 95 to 100 million euros. We are not competing here with Latvia, but rather with Lithuania. This is less than 30 million or 40 million for alcohol excise, but in both cases analysts do not say that this means that border trade will end. If you ask whether it would give the budget of the Estonian state a more than fiscal part of the budget, you will not say it either. It is said that, rather, this means a fall in prices here and the way it affects consumption is very difficult to predict.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U31	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U32	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I've been here in the meantime to see if the Tallinn comedy festival is over or if we've gotten a stand-up show without knowing it. You're trying to make fun of a subject that's very serious. On the weekend, you gave a speech where you yourself admitted that the Centre Party or the Central Party government had broken several myths. One of these myths that you and the great rabbina went on to deal with was the belief that the Estonian government is managed in a common sense and excise policy takes into account what is happening in neighbouring countries. The damage caused by the tax experiment amounts to over EUR 200 million. In addition, alcohol consumption during the Middle Party's rule has not decreased, but increased completely per adult. I ask again the last question of our question: what prevents the Central Party government from reducing excise duties to stop border trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U33	Thank you. I don't know what comedy you're talking about. I will answer what the members of the Reform Party have asked me. I understand you think the question is well answered and not, I don't know, comedy or performance, to say yes, you did everything right and now it's in the ditch, or as Mr Sõerd says it can't be worse. I didn't say that. I have not said that nothing has been done wrong now, or that the government today has done nothing wrong. I haven't just pointed out who's done the wrong thing either. I have admitted that, of course, border trade is a problem that needs to be addressed. But every step, you know it well, affects the whole picture. It is not the case that, on the one hand, if we bring down alcohol duty, for example, and it costs EUR x million, then the Ministry of Finance simply says that this x million does not come into the state budget. When we talk about the health aspect, it is said that this means that alcohol consumption is increasing. Then the third question arises. I think you've made more budgets than I have. We do not want to go down, we want the budget to be structurally balanced and nominally in surplus. So the question arises: what are we not doing? The representative of the heirs, Mrs Maris Lauri, spoke, I don't know, about roofing money or regional investments. Forgive me, honourable Riigikogu, they have always been considered important, regardless of governments, regardless of coalitions. I cannot say that in a hundred percent of cases, but in very many, in most cases, they have actually helped one, the other or the third municipality. They've helped schools or kindergartens, we all know that. I can't say it's been a hundred percent like this, but take it out of here and say that there's no need to put money in there, you can't compare these things. So, honourable member of the Riigikogu, you want me to read the answer to question five again. I think I read it out, and you can read it in the verbatim. As far as I know, the verbatim reports will be online with a few minutes' delay, so you can read it from there. I have no other answer than the one I read.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U34	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U35	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You have repeatedly rejected criticism, both in this Chamber and in the past in the press, of the rapid increase in alcohol excise duty, by saying that the previous government has already started the alcohol excise practice. Every time I hear that, I mean, if you realized that the previous government made a mistake, why did you and your government decide to forcefully amplify that mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U36	Thank you. Here I would like to read again what I have already read to you, that we have prepared a bill for the procedure, where we propose to cancel the increase in alcohol duty in 2019 and also in 2020. They say it's good if you can learn from the mistakes of others, but it's good if you learn from your mistakes. It's not bad either. As I have said many times in this Chamber, both governments have made mistakes. It's kind of the same thing that one of you is calling out, one of the blacks both. But the specific bill is in this room to cancel the increase in alcohol duty for the next two years. It can be said that this has been taken into account in the budget and taken into account in the country's budgetary strategy. I do have a request for your support. I think this is the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U37	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I hope you do well otherwise, because here today one blames one, the other, the Reform Party accuses you, your Reform Party, and, as you said very precisely, one black both. But I'd like to talk a little bit about responsibility. The fact is that in 2017 there was EUR 89,3 million in the underage, if I remember correctly, when we are talking about the collection of excise duties on tobacco, fuel and alcohol. The forecast for 2018 has been adjusted by EUR 134 million. Perhaps there have already been very serious errors in forecasting the budget, which have cost the Estonian taxpayer a great deal. But nobody wants to be in charge. Should the analyst in the Ministry of Finance who made the wrong forecast be responsible, or should the Minister of Finance who runs the ministry be responsible, or should the government or the head of the government be responsible, or you who have had the budget adopted, which has been very damaging to the Estonian state? Over EUR 200 million have been lost. Who's finally in charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U39	Thank you. First of all, when it comes to the budget, next year's budget will be over 11 billion and it will be the largest budget ever to which the Estonian taxpayer and Estonian entrepreneur have contributed. There are still a great many important points in this budget that we see for the first time, such as 585 million for defence expenditure. This budget includes an increase in the salaries of teachers and internal security staff. If you say it's a bad budget, I don't agree with it. Improving access to health care is within this budget. This budget includes supporting the rural areas of Estonia, Estonia. I see your groupmate, Mr Arno Silda. He and I very often debate questions or briefings, mainly on Question Time, on agriculture and rural issues. Of course, I understand when you say that this budget is bad and crazy and leads to destruction. I think you're putting a lot of political rhetoric into it. I don't even blame the opposition. In conclusion, the EKRE voter does not want to vote for what is being done in the opposition, but wants to give his vote for what you can actually do. The question is how the elections are going. We don't know that. No, I don't blame any forecasters from the Ministry of Finance. On the contrary, I think that those officials who make these forecasts are the best we have to take in Estonia, they have been doing this work for years. When you ask about responsibility, I personally follow the same principle as maritime affairs: the captain is responsible. The government is run by the Prime Minister, that's right. Putting responsibility on someone else doesn't give me anything. You're asking why these projections differ. We are budgeting the government on the basis of the summer forecast, which will take place in September. We will hand the budget over to the Riigikogu. This is preceded by a very fundamental basis; it is a country's budgetary strategy, which is based on the spring forecast. If the Riigikogu processes the budget here and makes its decision in December, then next year, when the budget comes into force, a new forecast will come spring forecast and summer forecast. You're asking why these numbers are different. We must consider that we are making certain decisions during this period. For example, if there is no increase in alcohol duty at the beginning of 2019, we must take into account that alcohol is not stored in warehouses either, or the storage aspect disappears. All of this has to be taken into account. Well, these are the inputs why the budget changes in one case or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U40	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! With your answers, you have managed to take a very good look at Estonia's entire life in relation to border trade and excise duties. We all know that border trade has really had a devastating effect on the small shops along the border. Now the impact of excise duties on fuel has had a very serious effect on the use of the personal means of transport of people living in the area. Have the results of all border trade and excise policy been analysed from a national political point of view? How does this affect the overall security of our country, and does the government have analyses of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U42	Thank you. Well, I guess it's been analyzed. I think that it is right that Estonia is going more and more towards such an inclusive society and, let us say, participatory democracy. Let's take a look at this alcohol issue. We need to talk to different sectors about both the health aspect that Mr Jaanson asked about and the financial aspect. That's what we're doing, the Board of Budgets, the Ministry of Finance, also alcohol producers. Finally, this opportunity must be found, which can be put on the table in a comprehensive fiscal policy. When we are talking about diesel, I must congratulate the Estonian Oil Association, which only a few days ago became 25 years old. Yes, these meetings with those who represent the industry are quite regular. Of course, their message is that diesel excise duty must be reduced in particular. Of course, it is their message, and they do not say that they want to raise it. The question is how we can create this whole picture. There is a social sector, there is education, there is education, there is, I don't know, a regional area, and there is also the same fiscal dimension, so that the budget doesn't go negative. It all has to be put into one whole. I would not be honest with you if I did not say that R &amp; D is also an important area here. But why do I also touch on other questions of Estonian life in my answers? If asked, you have to answer. If Mr. Pevkur asks what he has to say in Southeast Estonia, I will, of course, answer him.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U43	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U44	Mr. President! Prime Minister! I'm going to be a little more specific about Mr. Herkel. My country home is located about 24 km from Valga along Võru road to Võru. There's Koikküla nearby. As far as I'm concerned with the men from Valga's bus, they're carrying several cases of beer and backpacks that rumble from bottles of vodka. There's a small store in that village, and when I drive by, I see that going there is very thin. I'm sure next year this shop will close its doors. So don't always be so sure in your opinion, but have a little chat with people from the outskirts of South Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U45	Thank you. You were talking about those backpacks and what's ringing. At first, when I heard it, I thought, "I don't know, it's a good harvest in the woods now, maybe they've been picking mushrooms. But, of course, the fact that the format of small business is hit in border regions is not just about South-East Estonia; it is also about Pärnu, in the Häädemeeste area, I think, just a painful question. I think we must also compare people's incomes, what incomes are in Estonia and what incomes are in Latvia. The fact that our incomes are higher is a good indicator. The fact that it is in the outskirts of Estonia, as unfortunately in your example, that people from this village would rather go than come there, we must resist. I think that both the honourable Riigikogu and the government must do everything in their power to ensure that the people of Estonia do not leave here, but live in Estonia, live in the beautiful village you described, Valga, Võru or Põlva counties, as well as other counties. Yes, the latest statistics on migration show that Estonia's population has grown, not because of positive growth, but because of return, which is part of the solution. To give more confidence to the family, to have the first and other children, is, I think, a very big challenge. I fully agree, as I was in opposition, that ex-children are still born out of love, not depending on the level of support for one or the other, although the support gives a little certainty. It was news today that more third children have started to be born into families. Thanks to moms and dads, great news! If we get more such news, and if we see that the birth rate is increasing, then, I think, life in Estonia will get better. That is actually the main objective when we talk about it. But on what you pointed out in the case of excise duty on alcohol, I say once again that I answered Keit Pentus-Rosim for a very long time, that this does not only mean one decision, but that several questions need to be answered. It is clear that the opposition must ask these critical questions in its own key. But if you're in the government, if you're the prime minister of the leading party, you still have to be responsible for the fact that the whole picture is finally coming together and it has to be balanced. If this picture doesn't come together, it's gonna have to be new people who put it together. I am pleased that today's coalition has been working towards this goal of getting this picture together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U46	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I am absolutely convinced that there are no people here either in the opposition or in the coalition who do not know all the negative consequences of the increase in excise duty, but both the Minister of Finance and you have confirmed that the reduction of excise duty will not help, it is not possible to reverse or stop this process, it is very difficult and it is long-term. However, just recently, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association carried out a survey and a survey which revealed that if excise duties were brought down, not even smaller than those in Latvia, but left them slightly higher, border trade almost immediately ends. What's the reason why you don't want to take the accent down?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U48	Thank you, Mr. Pier. I have been discussing this with you for over an hour today, and of course I can continue. But I guess one reason is what it means to our health, whether or not the reduction in excise duty and the reduction in the price of alcohol at the store will give rise to an increase in alcohol consumption. The increase in consumption has an impact on human health and disease, has an impact on the number of serious and tragic accidents, the number of fires. It must also be assessed whether it directly returns the same amount from the state budget as it is due to border trade. Well, these are the main aspects, aren't they? As you know, we have said in the country's budget strategy that the budget for next year has been drawn up in a very responsible manner, with good financial practice in mind, we do not live at the expense of the future, we do not live in the minus. This budget has also been submitted to the Riigikogu. I don't think that's a minor either. If at one point we go to a budget minus, we have to see what this reason is, what these big, unfinished things we have. Could this be a reduction in alcohol excise duty? I personally sincerely think that we should rather talk about this excise policy on diesel and electricity. I think it's more important, at least it seems to me. Speaking from the private sector and from the business side, today's government has also made these decisions that, for example, large companies that consume electricity have nine times as many as nine times as possible! The rate of excise duty has been lowered.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U49	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! About ten days ago, we had tax policy here as a matter of national importance. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Egorov, said that tax policy is secondary and will always be secondary, that one of its roles is the redistribution of state revenue, but perhaps the most important is its behaviour. Perhaps in the case of tax policy, and also in the case of alcohol duty, the question is what problem we want to solve with it. The problem is excessive alcohol consumption and its harmful effects. My question is not about money, it is about the other side: is excise policy the most effective way to solve the problem of alcohol consumption and the costs it entails? How do you assess whether this objective has been met or not, whether consumption has decreased, whether we are healthier? How do you see it from your point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U51	Thank you. After all, we see that life expectancy in Estonia is increasing. The fiscal component, in my opinion, is only one part of combating excessive alcohol consumption. It is just as important to reduce the availability of alcohol; it is just as important to reduce advertising and call for action. I think we all remember ads that it's like a lifestyle, that it's cool, that's what I put in quotes a lifestyle. I don't think that's the case. I think this also applies very much to this, Mrs Haukanõm, which a member of the Riigikogu, Mr Jaanson, asked: how much of the low ground this very serious problem is dealt with by means of action of interest. I mean, not just sports, but musical games, clay circles, folk dances, all of that. I think that when a girl or boy engages in activities of interest in childhood, in any case, it reduces the tendency to drink too much. I think it starts at home. Sometimes, however, in society, I think that there is too little talk about what happens to yard sports, how much people play ball for heads and peoples. It's definitely starting at school, it's definitely starting at home. So to say that only excise is a magic wand in the matter of whether or not beer and vodka are drunk or not to drink, I do not think it is right. It's part of it, but it's a complex of different activities. Is alcohol too available in Estonia? We often compare ourselves with Finland. The availability is different, we have to admit, it is different. I remember disputes right here in the Riigikogu when at one point it was decided to stop selling alcohol in the capital city, if I am not mistaken, perhaps 9:00 p.m. Then they said, "Look how bad alcohol is now consumed beyond the city's borders, and there you can go shopping." I think this direction, that it is banned from 10 across Estonia, is correct. So I guess that's what you've been dealing with all along.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U52	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U53	Thank you. Prime Minister! Unfortunately, there have been quite significant changes in our range of values. As you said, the Olympic medal will certainly unite the people, but now the people will also be united by border trade. How embarrassing it was for the protest of February 24! Of course, we've been to Latvia, from Viljandi we've been to Ruhja for good ice cream, looking at the views of Gauja, the Latvians definitely came to us because of our pendant bridge, it's a normal relationship between the two countries. It is now felt on weekends that 20% of Viljandi cars are in Latvia. When we go to the Valmiera market, to the mall, to the Depo building materials store, to the Cash & Carrier food store, we see that there are only Estonian cars there. If you did not say this, since you are reducing excise duty, please tell me, since this abnormal situation will end, so that the people of Estonia and Latvia can communicate normally again and Estonians should not cross the border with outboard carts loaded on this side.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U54	Thank you. I see Viljandi and the people of Viljandi in a very different way. I see it's an Estonian folk music pulpit. I see that this is the tuksoon, where the Estonian folklore culture beats very strongly through its educational opportunities and various workshops up to Viljandi folk. I see that Viljandi is the place where people and young people are increasingly engaged in entrepreneurship, enjoying the beauty offered by Lake Viljandi and the town of Viljandi, walking around Lake Viljandi, or running around Lake Viljandi. I really see Viljandi in a different way, not the way that everyone in your town travels to the border on a weekend to get alcohol or something else. You gave an example of February 24th. I want to live in the European Union. I think that the fact that there are no internal borders in the European Union is a very high value. And the fact that a person travels to Latvia on 24 February and makes his demonstration there is a hallmark of a democratic society. But very many Estonians will be their home farm on 24 February, under the blue black and white flag in their home yard and wish Estonia luck. This was especially done on 24 February 2018, when our country celebrated its 100th anniversary. So I think that the fact that our great-grandfathers and great-grandfathers and grandmothers, fathers and mothers have brought our Estonian state here where we are, and that it will be continued by you and our descendants, is something extraordinary: we can live in a free, independent and democratic Estonian state. That's how I see February 24th.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U55	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Maris Lauri, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U56	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear colleagues in the Chamber! Listeners! Mr. Prime Minister! I listened to your answer, and the first emotion was that, oh, there will be a substantive answer. Perhaps not all of the answers could be accepted to the end or there were further questions, but the answers were more or less adequate. But when the question and answer round came, I started running around in my head with very interesting and strange thoughts that I wouldn't want to say anything out of this remote control, but some things anyway. I really would have liked you to have answered the questions that came from this hall, but often the answer went off somewhere you don't know. Yeah, maybe you were talking about important things, at least things that matter to you, but the questioner asked for something else. You could have answered those questions. When you said that the wise learns from the mistakes of others, it would have been nice if you had answered the question, not said anything else. Another thing that I do not like and have not liked for a long time is when it is said that the Reform Party, however, that the previous government and so on. I'm sorry, it's childish! It's really been a long time. As you said yourself, wise learns from the mistakes of others, but I'm going to add that a fool doesn't even learn from his own. It's a good thing you've said you've learned from your mistakes. But it would be nice if, during the discussion in the Riigikogu, you would really participate in the discussion and answer the questions that are being asked in the Chamber, and you would also dare to answer if you have an unpleasant, uncomfortable question that yes, things have not gone as they would have liked, and more generally than just this excise issue. But I have a feeling you must have a different understanding of things than I do. Obviously, my understanding of your answers to your colleagues' questions is different from yours, too, but unfortunately, I have a feeling that there is nothing more to talk about at least now. That's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U57	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U58	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I have this suggestion to the Prime Minister that, indeed, we can enjoy ourselves here in a way and in a different way, ask witty questions, answer very long and make long excursions in it may have the beauty of a certain game, but see, Estonia's politics and its content will not win. My call is for answers to the questions in a shorter, clearer way and with a focus on the substance of the question. I, too, tried to bring in perhaps some other element, and it gave the Prime Minister the opportunity to talk for a long time about free public transport, but the real problem is how our money goes to Latvia and what the situation of the country shops is, especially in South Estonia. I never got an answer to that last question. Indeed, it was good that at the very beginning I heard once when the Prime Minister pointed out that, yes, by raising excise duties, the Government of Jüri Ratas made a mistake at the beginning. The current Minister of Finance has also clearly acknowledged this mistake in comparison with the previous Minister of Finance, and something is happening. However, I would point out that, at the time the Central Party government came to power, the problem had to be seen. My few trips to South Estonia and relatively random contacts with shopkeepers who said, but drive to Valka and see what is happening there has shown that the problem already existed at that time. You should have known that. The pressure on Estonian country shops and border trade in Valga has only evolved as more and more new shops are opened. At that point, however, excise duty was increased. So, yeah, it's kind of a shared responsibility with the Reform Party. I think, looking further back, that this whole accident also started to a large extent because we had a rapid reduction in the personal income tax rate, then governments were struggling to redeem their promises and tax policy became quite volatile, and all kinds of fees were dealt with to scrape money from somewhere. In 2015, it was concluded that excise duties were being increased. It seemed that the excise duty on fuel could be raised at that point, that no one would, as a matter of fact, pay much attention to the excise duty on alcohol. This was done in the most strange way, in breach of the green book on alcohol policy adopted during the term of office of the Minister of Social Affairs of Taavi Rõivas and the sluggish, cautious excise duty increase agreement contained therein. But you can really blame the current government for not learning from the mistakes of others, but for multiplying those mistakes. I agree that it is not so easy to reverse this thing, that we are doing this operation and that somehow we can compare these price levels, because it is difficult to reverse this intruded path. But as a member of the Riigikogu, I really would have liked to have heard more substantive answers to the substantive questions of the members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U59	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U60	I sat here and listened to this story for quite a while, but I have to say it didn't convince me. I was not convinced by the Prime Minister's statement that things should remain as he said now, that by curbing border trade we should stay halfway, so that we do not have to lower excise duties, leave them the same for two years and hope that everything will be better. Of course, the Prime Minister also said the right things here, such as prevention, he also said the right things about the fact that lowering alcohol duty may in itself have an effect on increasing alcohol consumption, but it is just a small part of this big picture. I think that if things have gone so far that border trade has broken loose, the total damage to border trade is far greater than when alcohol duty has been turned back. Rewinding would still start with reducing alcohol excise duty in the same way. We're talking about how to do this. I have to admit, my story doesn't work as well as Prime Minister Ratas', but there are two things I would say. We should reverse alcohol policy so that we can do more prevention. That's one important thing I want to say. Another important thing I want to say is that we in the Riigikogu have discussed alcohol policy quite a lot in the context of excise duties, but for some reason we have discussed it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We have discussed this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and on the basis of the assessments made by the Ministry of Finance, but in order to protect excise policy, the government has mainly highlighted health policy or alcohol damage, influencing the behaviour of people with excise duties. I therefore believe that the right place to discuss alcohol damage is still the Committee on Social Affairs. We in the Riigikogu have never engaged the Social Affairs Committee in these discussions, although it is necessary to understand the justification for raising excise duties within the framework of health policy. At the moment, it seems that excise duty was raised and kept high only in the interests of the budget, but health policy remains a little (or not even a little) in the background. So I guess things aren't going the right way right now. The Prime Minister's performance here today did not convince me that these things should stay halfway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U61	The Prime Minister will take this opportunity to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U62	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank all the speakers. I fully understand politically that it is difficult for the opposition, on the one hand, to say that everything is fine. At the same time, I thank the opposition for the positive thoughts you have said. No, I can't say it was really bold. I certainly do not want to say in front of you that all the mistakes that have been made have been made in the past. On the contrary, I am in any case willing to take responsibility. It was quite right at all that the Reform Party submitted this question. Border trade is not generally good for the Estonian economy, only, as I said, the picture is much larger and wider. I think Mr Herkel basically said that turning back is not a black and white decision; there are additional effects here. We know that Estonia has also lived quite a lot of revenue from border trade when we talk about the northern border and how much goods have been bought here and services have been consumed here. But in any case, I thank the opposition for this debate and congratulate it on raising this issue. I think that speaking about excise policy must not disappear; this issue must be on the table before the elections so that it can say its messages and find the best solution. So I wanted to thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U63	The debate on the first inquiry is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U64	The second item is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Külliki Kübarsep, Krista Aru, Ain Lutsep, Jüri Adams, Andres Herkel, Enn Mere, Monika Haukanõmme and Artur Talvik on 22 August for alternative solutions to the construction of the eastern border. In the name of the heirs, please, Küllik's Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U65	Good vice chairman! Good emissaries! Good emissaries! You're getting less and less here. Indeed, at an extraordinary session, the eight members of the Free Party Group at the time submitted an inquiry into the eastern border. The incentive arose at the extraordinary meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which took place several times during the summer, one of which was about the issue of the construction of the border. I'm gonna go back in time. In September 2014, we had more serious problems with border issues when Eston Kohver was basically stolen from our country's territory. Then there was the big question of where this border is really located, because it has not been built. In 2015, the first price estimate was proposed: the cost of designing and building the eastern border could be EUR 70 million. Unfortunately, today this price has risen 3.7 times and, together with maintenance costs, amounts to 320 million euros over seven years. The Ministry of the Interior also prepared a report to find out where and why such a huge price difference occurred, "The effectiveness of the management of the project to build the eastern border of the Republic of Estonia in the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior." At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, a few very critical conclusions were drawn. Firstly, people lacked the competence to deal with such a large project as designing the eastern border with accounting and calculating. Perhaps there was no complete knowledge of what building the border would mean. Another very large deficit was that the price was presented, but the previous research into the landscape and the soil had not been carried out. As a result, the price has increased somewhat. The government, as we have understood from the replies of the Minister for the Interior, has discussed the subject on several occasions and has mapped out three decision-making points on what kind of border we want. Do we want a border that is manned with emphasis? Do we want a border that's basically built out? To give an example, on 1 June the Committee on Legal Affairs visited the border in South-East Estonia and we saw that Latvia is currently building a border like the so-called K-Rauta Garden. Is that one solution? Or is the solution a "modern border" that is being developed with emphasis on meeting the challenges of information technology? I have come to understand that the Auditor General has also attended the meetings of the Cabinet, who has pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs that 320 million are not justified because, once decided in favour of the modern model for the establishment of the eastern border, the various options that this modern border might mean have not been calculated. This is not just the one solution that is being offered. They too have started to draw up their own report, which should be completed either at the end of January next year or at the beginning of February. In addition to these questions, to which we certainly want to be answered, there is also the question which the Ministry of the Interior pointed out that, unfortunately, it is not possible to determine the time dimension of the construction to date. Time may increase because the state is planning to build several large objects at the same time, which creates the risk that the state itself will create a crisis in the construction sector. Let us hope that the Prime Minister has meaningful and intelligent answers for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U66	The Prime Minister has the right to reply. George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U67	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, first of all, thank you and the members of the Free Party Group for their questioning. This is serious. An inquiry is entitled 'an alternative solution to the development of an eastern border'. I guess I'm in a tough spot right now. If I should be guided by what Mr Herkel said at the end of the previous inquiry and what was said by the representative of the heirs, then I should say briefly that we are going forward with the construction of the border, a strong line must be made that protects Estonia, protects it every day and protects it even in difficult moments, and then the answer should be stopped. If you will allow me to respond a little longer and certainly more substantively, let me devote a little more time to this subject. The first question: 'What alternative options have the Government of the Republic discussed in the construction of the eastern border? What are the main substantive arguments for making a choice in favour of the most expensive option and what ensures its full functional functioning? ' The basis for developing the eastern border is to get the temporary control line under surveillance. This requires, firstly, to identify all illegal activities and people, secondly, to get a proper picture of the situation at the border and in its immediate vicinity, thirdly, to create the ability to systematically analyse the information to be collected, and fourthly, to apprehend all illegal border crossings in the immediate vicinity of the border. For this purpose, in 2014-2015 alternatives were considered by specialists. The Police and Border Guard Board prepared four solutions by the beginning of 2015. The three solutions included the establishment of a delay garden, access and patrol. In the case of three, the question was to what extent to do so and what kind of monitoring solution would be added to the infrastructure sites. The fourth option contained only cleaning and labelling of the border strip. Solution A: clearing the existing south-east border boundary strip within 10 metres and guarding it in addition to today's tactics by aerial observation. This would be achieved by using unmanned aerial vehicles with an internal combustion engine 24 hours a day. In addition, gardens and surveillance positions would be established in the immediate vicinity of border crossing points and in places where there is a high risk of irregular border crossing. This solution was risky, as the drone solution is vulnerable, highly dependent on weather conditions and would require the construction of additional infrastructure. Solution B: cleaning the existing south-east border border strip within 10 metres and guarding the area and perimeter with motion sensors. In addition to the sensors, the use of mobile surveillance vehicles was proposed. This would, however, have required the provision of electricity throughout the border band, the establishment of access routes throughout the border band and the creation of data transmission infrastructure. The proposed solution was not modern and did not allow the alarm trigger to be detected. It would also have increased the number of disruptions caused by animal activities and should have hired more officials. The solution version C was finally further developed. It is a combined system of technical surveillance. According to the risk assessment and depending on the specific nature of the landscape and natural conditions, a barrier fence shall be installed. In addition, a patrol track of at least two metres wide and access routes shall be established, and zoos shall be installed to prevent false interference. A modern surveillance and surveillance system will be established on the border strip, including the use of battery-powered unmanned aerial vehicles. Solution D, as has been said, would have meant minimal additional activities on the land border. This would have meant cleaning and marking the border strip, cleaning up the primitive facilities necessary for the movement of purples and foot patrols. This would in essence have been the maintenance of the existing border. Let us continue with the review of the decisions taken. In 2015, the decree of the Government of the Republic established the coordinates of the temporary control line and gave the Minister of the Interior a government mandate to build the eastern border. According to the Government of the Republic's operational plan, until now the Minister of the Interior has given regular reviews of developments in the construction of the border. On 17 March 2016, the Government of the Republic issued a regulation defining the elements of the border strip infrastructure: border posts, patrol tracks, border gardens to prevent man's rapid progress, animal barrier fences, technical systems and border surveillance devices. Between 2015 and 2017, the design needed to start construction took place. On this basis, the estimated cost of investments, fixed costs and project management needed to build the entire eastern border was identified in January 2018. On the land border, this means a total of 135.6 km of construction work, which is a complex undertaking due to marshy areas and high surface water. When infrastructure is completed, a modern technical monitoring system will be installed on the border strip. The calculations were submitted to the meeting of the Cabinet on 15 February 2018. These calculations were the first to link construction activities and volume to specific natural conditions at different border sections. A total of 11 sections were designed and the indicative cost of the eastern border resulting from construction projects was EUR 188 million. The construction period runs until 2026. The second question: 'Considering the large amount of public investment, how does the Government of the Republic consider it possible to find funds to build the eastern border? What different alternatives to cost reduction have been considered? What other costs in the country is the government planning to limit when the price of the eastern border, together with maintenance costs, rises to EUR 320 million? ' The alternatives were discussed at specialist level in 2014-2015 and the government was presented with the most effective option to carry out the task. According to the decision of the Cabinet of 15 February 2018, three external experts were commissioned for the border project. Firstly, the Ministry of the Interior asked the European Border and Coast Guard Agency for an assessment of the effectiveness of the concept of border infrastructure and technical monitoring. Frontex concluded that the concept of the Estonian system of physical barriers and technical monitoring corresponds to the best practices of the European Union. Secondly, the construction consultancy company IB Telora OÜ's assessment of the regularity and volume of project materials by border section was taken. IB Telora OÜ concluded that the cost of the project was correctly calculated. Thirdly, the ICAS was asked for a capacity and cost assessment on the establishment of border infrastructure and a technical monitoring system. The RKAS estimated that financial planning should take into account the potential increase in construction prices and therefore the cost of construction was estimated at EUR 250 million from EUR 188 million. The possibility of completion in 2026 was confirmed by all experts, taking into account the complexity of border construction as well as other major projects in Estonia, as well as the capacity of the Estonian construction market. Faster construction may not be possible in the Estonian construction market. It should be borne in mind that other factors affecting the development of the eastern border and the final timetable will only develop after all the preconditions for starting construction activities have been created. Good heirs, your third question: 'Which period will the construction of various major projects be started, what is the cost of these individual items and how will the risks associated with the construction of the eastern border be mitigated? How does the Government of the Republic plan to carry out its commitments later? ' Between 2018 and 2020 the activities already started to prepare for the construction of the eastern border will continue and monitoring positions will start to be established along the Narva River. The construction of the land border by section will also be started. The eastern border will be built within sectors and sections. The entire eastern border is first divided into three sectors (river, lake and land), which are developed separately. In addition, land sector development does not take place at all 136-km to be precise, but infrastructure and monitoring systems are built in sections at once. At present, the procurement of sections 1 to 4 is being prepared, but there are more paragraphs on the land border, namely 11. This will allow you to learn and better plan the construction of the following sections when you complete one paragraph. As far as the whole border project is concerned, the budget allocated by the Government of the Republic decision of 26 February 2015 includes the following major development and maintenance activities: First, design and construction of the Narva Kordon Control Point. Secondly, upgrade of the Vasknarva office's command post. Third, marking the turning points of the Peipsi lake border line. Fourthly, renovation of the Saatse cordon border control post. Fifthly, upgrade of the control points of Värska, Luhamaa and Piusa. Sixthly, the surveying and purchase of additional land (necessary due to the construction project). Seventhly, the connection points for electricity supply are set up throughout the land border section. Eighthly, the development of Eastern border infrastructure and the establishment of a technical monitoring system. Ninth, maintenance of the border strip. Additional funding for the eastern border will be decided by the Government of the Republic as part of the procedure for the budgetary strategies of the following country. It will then be possible to take into account the actual development of the Eastern border infrastructure and the detailed budgetary needs. Based on this forecast, the special-purpose reserve of the Ministry of Finance is only partially sufficient for investments and maintenance costs in 2020. Therefore, the Ministry of Internal Affairs will submit an additional request for additional budgetary resources already in spring 2019 in the process of the State Budget Strategy 2020-2023. Good heirs, your fourth question: 'Minister Anvelt, in reply to the written question of Riigikogu member Andres Herkel, refused to admit that the process has made calculation errors in the price of the eastern border. Are there any calculation errors and errors? Why has the price increased several times since 2015 for new estimates? ' The question goes on: who is personally and politically responsible for miscalculation errors that have misled the public? In short, once again, the background to the development of the initial cost. The Ministry of the Interior submitted to the meeting of the Government Office on 26 February anno Domini 2015 an application for the development of the state border of the Republic of Estonia, marking, the development of technical security capabilities and the investment of the infrastructure and surveillance systems to be created. The time for drawing up the relevant memorandum was limited and the budget was presented as fundamental and indicative throughout the preparatory work. It was further clarified that when land border and Narva river patrol projects were completed, the actual budgetary need would be revealed. In order to build the eastern border, the collection of information needed to start construction was carried out between 2015 and 2017, in addition to designing. The test sections of two different types of terrain were also constructed. These activities revealed additional factors which had a significant impact on the real cost of building the eastern border. During the design process, the indicative cost of investments, fixed costs and project management needed to build the entire eastern border in January 2018. Geodesy and geology studies were carried out during the design process, which show that the construction environment is mostly land with inappropriate construction surface (soft areas, high surface water), and that there are no careers in the construction area to obtain construction material, which makes it costly to move the filling surface. There was also a significant increase in the need to establish access routes and it became clear that the volume of connection points for electricity supply should be increased in order to serve the planned technical monitoring and surveillance systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U68	Questions for the Prime Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! First of all, I think that in 2015, the government should not have given out any number three days before the elections. It also put you in a very difficult position. But my question is this. This currently proposed EUR 320 million limit in Estonia will only be effective until the end if the Latvian side has the same limit if such a limit continues. You have also begun to talk about the European standard for the external borders, the last time you did so at a meeting with the Riigikogu committees. When could this standard become binding or mandatory for the Republic of Latvia? To what extent could our expenditure be covered by the European Union budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U70	Thank you. First of all, it is true that when this decision was made on 26 February 2015, it was Thursday, then Friday and Saturday came, and the elections were, in my opinion, on 1 March 2015, i.e. Sunday. I do not know how much this decision was due to the pre-election period, but one thing is clear: there was no definitive knowledge of this issue of soil. But in order not to go back to what was then and what is today, it can be said that this issue of soil can actually be clarified, be it geological and geodesy surveys, only through design activities. There's one more thing I want to say. We're talking about $250.3 million, which is the cost right now. If we are talking about 320, which is not wrong, then there are fixed or daily costs added. The volume of investment currently known to us is 250,3 million. Of course, there is one more thing to say: construction procurement. I don't think that's how it's gonna be. Building procurement will certainly change in one direction or the other. Now Latvia. A very correct question and, in my opinion, a very logical question. If we make a strong line here, what's going on south? Mrs Külliki's Hatter, the representative of the heirs, also said that it would be built, say, barrierd, or called it the name of a large trading chain. We must, as far as I can see, add two things here: one is a physical limit and the other is a human capacity. There are several times more people at the Latvian border guard than at the Estonian Police and Border Guard Board. We are again using more advanced solutions and stronger construction. Your next question was on a common border standard. When will it be finished? I don't know. I very much hope that we at this week's Council will approve of moving towards a common border standard. Your second question was how much money the European Union could get for it. This response will depend on how the exit negotiations with Britain can be concluded. The future MFF, the European Union budget, is also very much dependent on what will be Brexit. Could there be European Union funding? I think we could. This is the same as the European Union's external border with a third country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U71	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U72	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm probably the only ambassador here who's been on the border recently. This border is impressive. But it's only a three-mile-mile slice of pontoon rotting. For the rest, the bush is growing, and, frankly, there's nothing to see, even though there are owl cameras in many places. On the one hand, there is no money. You could be kidding that that $200 million was lost because of alcohol duty, that money would still be there. But if you have to build 132 kilometers by 2026, I'm talking about land, so it should be about 17 kilometers a year. Nothing has been done this year. Is it next year? In addition to the existing 3.2 km, how many kilometres are planned to be built?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U73	Thank you. As I said, when it comes to the land border, which is indeed 135.6 kilometres in total, that it starts from the so-called 'triple point' and moves northwards. At the moment, the opinion is that for the money that exists in the country's budget strategy, it is possible to build standard sections 1 to 4. If you ask what year exactly how many kilometres will be built, then I would remind you that in this case all construction procurements must go without major disputes and remain within the limits of volume. To say here today that this is an x or a y kilometers, given that maybe I will have the opportunity to be here in a few years' time before you if you ask the people of Estonia to support me, and you can then say that in 2018 you said that this is so or so many kilometers, that it would certainly be premature. Yes, of course, these sections have been measured, there is a number of kilometres behind each section, but I will say once again that this depends very much on building procurement and, of course, very much on how the country's budget strategy will be shaped in spring 2019. It is clear that this amount, which is in the country's budget strategy today, is not enough. Like I said, 250 million. In any case, we need to move on every year. Are these existing passages impressive? Yeah, I'm sure they're very impressive in construction. I've been on these test runs, too. But you're right, the test sections are a rooster step compared to what has to be done in the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U74	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U75	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! One part of the third question was to which I did not hear an answer. Please list the major assets, the large investments that the state is planning to undertake at the same time as the development of the eastern border. The people of the Ministry of the Interior have said that if, for example, Rail Baltic is to be built at the same time, the construction market will be so narrow that, firstly, the time of the completion of the eastern border will automatically increase and, secondly, we still do not know the price. It is likely that the need for migrant labour to be introduced will arise even more in society. Please name the major projects that are being tried to build at national level at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U76	Thank you. Now I am, aren't I, in front of the paradox? When I start naming them, they say again that they will answer for a long time and talk about the positive program that today's government is doing and... Well, you ask me all the time. All right, those big projects. You said one of them was the construction of Rail Baltic. Secondly, the synchronisation of the electricity market with that of mainland Europe will certainly remain during this period. This also depends very much on the next Riigikogu membership and government, but I think these are infrastructure-related major projects, infrastructure connection projects. I know that political parties have different positions, but I am absolutely convinced that connections to Tallinn just like Narva, Tallinn Tartu and beyond, out to South-East Estonia, also Tallinn-Pärnu-Ikla, must be built out. They are certainly large investments in Estonia, large infrastructure projects. Investments in cultural and sporting objects must definitely be added to this. We cannot overcome or reverse the growth in our investment capacity, for example, in the area of defence costs, which are important to us. But to say that they directly take the workforce away from me, I think there's definitely no keyword there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U77	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister! I guess there's a lot of ideas about this border. We're spending a lot of money, but the neighbor doesn't want to. Well, if there's any way we can share these costs, they're also good at how good the limit is in the meantime. But I thought I'd ask what are the developments in the use of our boys at the border. There were things that moved and stories that could be used, on the other hand could not be used to study time, etc. Any progress here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U79	Thank you. I think you referred, if I understood your question correctly, to the Estonian patriot who at any moment is willing to defend Estonia, you referred to the thought of Aivar Riisalu. I think it is positive when it is said that the border must be better protected. All ideas are welcome. But first, this comparison with Latvia. Once again, we must take into account that there are people in Latvia who physically monitor the border, many times more than in Estonia. That's right. Bringing people from military service to border guards? I honestly don't know that we would have decided to take such, say, armed guards to the border. I think what the Police and Border Guard do in peace conditions is a good job. That should continue to be the case. But how can we build the eastern border in a timetable, strengthen and guard the border? Admittedly, when we look at the Government's decision of 26 February 2015, that there was very little, you could say, even very little, known about the drone capacity, the take-down of drones, any illegal activity in the field of drones. Today, we have much more of this information. This, too, has increased the cost of building the border. I think that if the Prime Minister appears here in 2021, for example, in three years, then perhaps there are new capabilities and new issues that need to be resolved in the context of the eastern border. It's not bad at all. But yes, that's my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U80	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We will come back to this border standard and to the European Union's money for a moment. The border standard in the European Union is, I understand, still a relatively Estonian idea and, in fact, a proposal. This vision is based on our borders and on a possible standard to be established. However, it does not seem very realistic for the European Union to accept this. It might fit in in southern Europe, Italy, but when we look at Finland and the polar line, I think it is clear that there is certainly no need for such a standard, given that it is thousands of kilometres. But in your reply, you said that whether the European Union and, if so, the extent to which our border is co-financed is also based on Brexit and other such things. My specific question is: how much does the Government of the Republic expect to receive support from the European Union, how many percent? If you can't, what happens if Brexit goes the way it does?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U82	Thank you. If the honourable member of the Riigikogu allows us, then we will build this border. I don't think you can make a discount here. You have highlighted the southern countries and the great pressure on the external borders of the European Union. Let us be honest, when the World Cup ended in football, there was also a huge pressure on our borders from illegal refugees. Today it is more a matter of the Mediterranean than we are talking about illegal refugees. I do not rule out that at some point this pressure may be in a completely different direction. So, yes, there are preliminary calculations of how much theoretical support the European Union could have. But once again, this is speculation, knowing what it is like for the next budget to be adopted from the point of view of the Heads of State or Government, at the Council's table. Estonia, of course, supports a quick and good solution, but I think it will happen after the elections to the European Parliament, not before.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U83	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! My question concerns a forgotten bill. How far is it to legitimise a five-km zone that would enable rapid border control and police procedures to prevent illegal border crossing or other illegal activities in a border area? As we know, this bill is stuck somewhere. I'd like an explanation. Is it intended to continue to work on this, or is it intended to be put aside? On the Schengen border, which is in Estonia, such a measure would be necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U85	Thank you. I admit I cannot tell you at what stage of the procedure it is. I do not want to lie to the honourable members of the Riigikogu here. I'll do everything I can to get you an exhaustive reply by e-mail in the next few days, if that's all right with you. But the general principle is that there can't be anything just sticking around. So I promise I'll definitely pay attention to that. If I have the opportunity to end this discussion here in the Riigikogu Chair, I will immediately begin to see that you have this answer, Mr Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U86	Members of the Riigikogu currently have no further questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U87	Good Chairman! Thank you, Prime Minister. A few keywords that give you a little trouble. In my opinion, the government could still hold this note so that it would worry about the price formation. Why? At the moment, it seems that the current price is simply too much for the Estonian state. If we are also talking about the annual cost of maintenance amounting to EUR 10 million per year, this is a remarkably large departure which will shut down the so-called "area" of the activities of the next governments, as well as the ministry and police and border guards. In this sense, it is not the absence of a worrying note, I think, statesmanly. The border is such an important thing, its sustainability we must bear in mind. Yeah, I understand the problem is that the Police and Border Guard are admitting that there's not going to be a follow-up. This is actually recognised by every sector, every sector, but it does not give the right to underestimate or to say that hiring people at the border or their better and more effective work at the border is not our priority. On the contrary, our people must be our priority. Today's Police and Border Guard Board, especially the border guards, is doing a good job. The fact that such an attack took place during the World Championship and we were able to respond adequately to it is, in my opinion, a recognition of the work so far. We must certainly share this recognition. The Free Party is certainly of the opinion that the border must be built. But we support the views or preliminary opinions of the National Audit Office, which were actually reflected by ministers in the government office. The party leaders there wanted more debate and discussion, which could be a modern state border in their different variations. It is currently very unambiguously defined through this model line, but it is probably possible to identify different solutions, especially in a situation where we are unable at least to cooperate with other Baltic countries, especially Latvia, so that we have a similar border. Otherwise, that line won't save us much. The people of the Border Guard Agency are already struggling with illegal activity on the Latvian side. I am not talking about the labour market now, not in terms of border surveillance, but in terms of the construction sector. I would remind you that the Governor of Eesti Pank has also been to the remote and has stressed several times that we are facing a labour crisis in the coming years. This will certainly be amplified by the state itself, when, at the same time and not calculatedly, the construction of the eastern border, as the Prime Minister pointed out, the synchronising of the Rail Baltic and the electricity market, was not included, for example, in the construction of rental houses, infrastructure, etc. We understand that the current government has not been prepared to develop plan B, that if our own workforce in the construction sector does not bear all this burden, how can we control it and get the Estonian state to work usefully? The problem that I am sure will arise is migrant workers. I would very much like us to address this issue openly so that we do not... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U88	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U89	... there would be serious consequences, such as the division of society in this matter. I think it is more useful for the country to set its own conditions proactively, but this requires long, open and fair negotiations. Of course, what is worrying is that the Prime Minister said on several occasions today that the real budgetary need is still emerging. We cannot give this message to future generations! It's such an important object. If we keep thinking that tomorrow this answer will come, or in a year's time this answer will come, and we will try and try, it will not be responsible. It is not responsible to launch any project unless you have confidence from start to finish that it can be built and maintained. In any case, Riigi Kinnisvara AS has said that it must take account of the 7% increase in construction costs per year. But for example, Rail Baltic has already proven that it may not be 7% per year, but we can talk about 18% per year. It's irresponsible! Our message to the Prime Minister is that please look at the entire pot of investment as a whole, look at the risks involved. The issue of labour is, of course, very serious. Secondly, the cost, including a special emphasis, should be put on what future maintenance costs will be. Please don't be afraid of people, let's apply them! If our people can contribute more to defending the border and building it, it is more of a recognition to them. Even if we do a very high-tech border, in a war situation, it won't save us anyway. In this sense, the implementation and recognition of people should be our priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U90	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U91	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Colleagues! I'm only talking because I'm, yes, probably the only one of you who's been on the border lately. [[A voice from the hall.]] Oh, good. A few thoughts about it. It was said to be really like this, let's say, a pussy. You can ride on pontoons for 3.2 kilometers, watch like a porch, watch the swamp birds around, but there's a real padre and a hard-to-pass landscape all around, and I tried it myself. But really, the owl cameras are here and there. I also heard about these fancy plans: drones, drone nests, where drones will start to take off, a high garden, of course, which is within this 3.2 km now, and an animal barrier. I was thinking there, and I was still wondering if we needed such a proud line. It is always good to be a 'pattern student', but the border of the European Union is scary, and once again, 132 kilometres from the Estonian land border remains to be done. By the way, thank you to the Prime Minister for a very good overview. Especially when you've been at the border, it's pretty lively. So a very thorough and good overview. But I thought by 2026 this limit would have to be ready, and that still means that there will be many years until then. I am not sure what our relations with our eastern neighbour will be and what the world will be like. But right now, we've only got three kilometers. I asked for a simple calculation, then it should be 17 kilometers a year to 2026 when it comes only to land. Of course, I didn't get an answer. It is not wise to say this now, because after that, you can ask why so much has not been done. But my question, though, is that all of this is beautiful, very proud, and it would actually be very nice if there was a line like this. But he's scary expensive. Although, I would like to remind you that the money used to boost northern Latvia and not just the money used by the so-called 'bad' excise policy is so big that it can build the border. But that's it. Do we still need such a proud line? How about a lot less? Moreover, if a common border standard has not yet been adopted in the European Union. Right there in Latvia, which is right next door, and everywhere else the border is quite different. Moreover, those who want to cross the border are moving now too. By the way, the local border guards said that the Russian bear came to Estonia at the border post of the Eston Suitcase, where he crossed the border or was taken. So the path hasn't even been cured. That's the idea, it's for us to think about whether we still need such a proud and expensive border. This would actually be the European Union, I think, I am not mistaken for one of the proudest borders. But if it's completed for a very long time, it's now 3,2 kilometers ready and the deadline is 2026, but it's still not known how many kilometers will be completed next year, it's still very risky business. Do we have enough money, do we have enough builders, do we have other capacities? Indeed, with this money, it is also necessary to make electrical connections, to transport the aggregate to the rotting swamps, which there is and indeed there is. Maybe it could be cheaper and easier. That's it. In any case, go check the border, if you haven't seen it yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U92	The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate any more, the Prime Minister does. Please, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U93	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you to the Free Party and to the Members of your Group for their questioning. An important question in any case. I think, thinking about what you said about this speech chair, both Külliki Kübarsepp and Peeter Ernits, that the main question is what must be done at the border, what must the border be able to resist when operational must be in different, say, cases. This is actually the question that needs to be debated in the public debate. We have decided that this is the level of ambition. This has been assessed by Frontex, as I said. Of course, Estonia can say that we do not do such a border. We have other options, from one extreme to another. Basically, the government can always choose to choose another ambition and level. There's nothing wrong with this debate. Today, in front of you, I say that I think it is right to move forward in terms of the quality of what is currently created at the border. Yes, of course, Latvia is building a different border. But if we want a border like Latvia, we need to bring more manpower to the PBA, not 50, not 100, but I think I am not wrong if I say more than 1,000 people. These are the options for how we're going to proceed. It's been agreed that we'll launch like this. That is true, and this is also said by the PBA, that the first four sections north of this triple point are the most important or difficult for us. How to go from there, you have to have a discussion about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U94	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U95	The next question is presented by Monika Haukanõm, Krista Aru, Enn Meri, Jüri Adams, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Andres Herkel and Ain Lutsepp. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U96	Mr. Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Good guests on the balcony! On 11 September, seven representatives of the Free Party submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. The topic was to complete the training of sign language interpreters at the University of Tartu. A little background. As early as 2002, the professional association of sign language interpreters drew the attention of public officials to the importance of launching a national training order and, on this basis, of systematic and continuous training for sign language interpreters. After four years of negotiations, explanations, repeated discussions, the training of Estonian sign language interpreters was first launched in 2006 at the University of Tartu. It is recalled that in 2007 we adopted an amendment to the language law here in the Riigikogu, which gave the Estonian sign language the same status as the national language. This means that some 1,500 sign language deaf people have the right to use Estonian sign language as a language of communication in business and also in teaching. To comply with the law, as I said, sign language training was started at the University of Tartu. Unfortunately, we are now aware that in 2006 the University of Tartu decided to end the student admission and complete the study programme of an Estonian sign language interpreter by 2020. It must be acknowledged, and of course it is also very good that the proportion of sign - language deaf people in our population is relatively low, but the problem is nevertheless high. Based on international indicators, the number of interpreters required to provide sign language translation services is 10% of the number of deaf people using sign language. Thus, Estonia would need about 150 sign language interpreters. Based on the Chamber's records, we now have 21 qualified interpreters, so one interpreter per 40 deaf people. In Finland this ratio is 1:20. So we still cannot meet all our needs. The decision to close the Sign Language Translator curriculum is undoubtedly a cancer course. This is not in accordance with our laws, our constitution and the principle that people with disabilities are under the special care of the state, the content of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the objectives of the employment capacity reform, and the agreement concluded in 2013 between the Ministry of Education and Research and the University of Tartu, where it is very clear that this university is responsible for the teaching groups of Estonian language and cultures. It also includes sign language and sign language interpreters without doubt. These topics were repeatedly brought to the attention in the press at the end of this summer. Regina Paabo, chairman of the professional association of Estonian sign language translators, and Jari Pärmma, who is a deaf student at the University of Tartu, wrote about this. Translation services are essential for bringing the deaf out of isolation and their involvement in everyday life, from learning, working and cultural participation. A high-quality and accessible sign language translation service provides the opportunity to participate in social life, to be a full member of society, to be a contributor, not a handful of helpers. Thus, the sign - language translation service is not a comfort service, but a vital communication tool for deaf people. The decision to end the training of sign - language translators will lead deaf people back to isolation, from which the struggle has taken decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U97	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U98	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! From the very beginning, thank you very much for your questioning! The Ministry of Education and Research also had a number of serious discussions on this issue. Since the form of inquiry provides for the form of questions and answers, I will present questions to those who may not know the text of a specific inquiry, as well as questions. First of all: 'Please explain on which grounds the University of Tartu decided to close the admission of students to the curriculum of Estonian Sign Language Translators since 2016. How was the Ministry of Education and Research involved in this decision? ' The final closure of the curriculum was decided by the Senate of the University of Tartu on 23 February 2018. The justifications were as follows: the interest in study in the curriculum is very low and so it is not appropriate to continue it; the representatives of the professional association and the Institute of Education considered that such a curriculum no longer meets the needs of society and that the university lacks the substantive competence to ensure the functioning of the curriculum. Therefore, learning should rather be built up as parts. In addition, there are structural problems, there are no specific employers for sign language interpreters, they usually have to become entrepreneurs, they have to look for customers. Thus, the problem is wider than the concern of just one educational institution. Two solutions were envisaged for the future: sign language translation can be trained in the form of further training if additional funding is available, while in the long term machines will do this. The technology already exists. The representatives of the Ministry have participated in a number of discussions on this subject, where we have emphasised that the responsibility for the development of this field has been placed with the University of Tartu in the administrative contract. As the members of the Riigikogu know, the wider public may be less aware, there is currently a review of the reports on the implementation of administrative contracts between the Ministry and universities, as well as talks to prepare a new period of administrative contracts. So it is quite appropriate to bring this issue up here now, because we have also discussed the training of sign language interpreters at meetings with the management of the University of Tartu. The second question: 'If the University of Tartu does not wish/does not find a way to continue the training of sign language interpreters, then it is the duty of the State and, above all, the Ministry of Education and Research to find a solution satisfactory to all parties, where and how to continue the training of sign language interpreters at higher education level. Does the Ministry of Education and Research have a clear agenda where and when to continue teaching sign language interpreters at higher education rather than further training levels? " In the current discussions on the teaching of sign language interpreters, it has been suggested that teaching sign language interpreters in a separate higher education curriculum may not be the best solution for all parties involved. At the same time, universities are expected to prepare the people needed on the labour market. The questioners refer to the practice in different countries as to the relationship between sign language interpreters and deaf people, and the number of interpreters required is estimated to be 150. The Estonian problem is, however, who orders and pays for the work of sign language interpreter. According to the Association of Deafers, Tallinn, Tartu and Pärnu have ordered sign language services in 2017 of ca 170000 euros, or 5000 hours, which is about 600 days, which is the number of working hours of less than three persons per year. Continued discussions on whether a better solution would be to teach sign language interpreters through further training or to create a specialized module that students from different disciplines can go through, for example, specialist teachers, medical practitioners, social workers, lawyers, philologists. Sign language skills are not the only way to involve deaf people in everyday life. Today, the quality of speech recognition has already improved so much that it is possible to present a person's speech as a computer text. Together with Estonian language technologists, the Ministry of Education and Research and the University of Tartu design a pilot project to equip students with speech recognition devices at the University of Tartu with deep and severe hearing impairments to test their usability in continuous teaching. Since 2012, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund also pays for the installation of an internal ear implant, which enables deaf young children to enter the world of hearers. Audiologists involved in their further treatment and rehabilitation. This speciality cannot be studied in Estonia either, but a scholarship to train audiologists in the UK has been established on the initiative of MTÜ Audiere. The Ministry of Education and Research has supported the issuance of an audiologist scholarship since 2014; since 2017 the issue of a scholarship has been transferred to Archimedes SA. This year, fifth scholarship was started in Britain. Third: 'If, however, there is no action plan on the previous question, when is it planned to hold a discussion with the parties, which include your Ministry, Ministry of Social Affairs, the Deaf community, sign language interpreters, municipalities, etc.? ' By the end of 2018, the Ministry of Education and Research will discuss sign language teaching opportunities with universities, either as further training or as an offer of modules to students from different curricula. Management contracts for 2019/2021 are concluded with universities at the end of the year. The Education and Research Strategy 2020+ has also started under the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Research, during which a more distant view will be discussed with partners. By the end of 2018, expert groups will present proposals for a vision that will be discussed with partners in 2019. The fundamentals of language policy will be drawn up by the Ministry of Education and Research with the involvement of other ministries and interest groups during the first half of 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U99	Questions for the Minister. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We have heard many reasons why the University of Tartu no longer wishes to keep this curriculum active: little feasibility does not meet the needs of society, etc. Of course, it can be taught in the form of further training, but translation is not just an easy service. I will bring here the parallel of English translation. If we teach sign language as part of further training and an interpreter needs to come to this Riigikogu, for example, to translate drafts or go to court or elsewhere, he may not be able to translate quality. I also realized, unfortunately, that if the university still decides that it will close this curriculum, the ministry does not have much to do, even though discussions are still taking place. What message do those deaf people who are here to observe the debate today go home with? What do they really say: is the curriculum closed or not? What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U101	I understand these questions-answers-chats and the views of the experts of the Ministry of Education in such a way that there is no longer enough in the form of training as a full programme since 2016 as a separate specialty. That decision has already been made. There is no great pressure to reopen it as a full program. However, there is a need for a thorough analysis of what you have also pointed out in your question: that further training is not sufficient. This is also the view of the Ministry of Education, and we should find a solution to this together. Higher education also includes specialisation, and now there is a question of which disciplines it would be best for students to teach sign language within the framework of continuing education. Are we going to let any student in the curriculum specialize in this other specialty so that it may become his main field of activity in the future? The opportunities of philologists, lawyers, and specialized teachers were mentioned here for example. However, we must not send out the wrong message. We know that there will be a greater reception in special education from next year, as the demand for education in this area will continue to grow. If a person wants to learn sign language in the future, he may not be able to access it. So we must not link sign language training directly to one specialty. The special education groups are either full or not, and so you can't say, listen, we created a chance, but no one came. That is why I believe that it would be more appropriate to involve the target audience of the deaf and other competent people in order to make a choice as to what speciality to combine this study with. I assume that there is a need for the design of certain modules, and it must be possible to negotiate with the university. There is a very clear lack of interest in a specialty. I do not exclude that there is still a possibility to consider some kind of funding if there is more financial resources for this. But rather, the university's attitude is very cautious, even when it comes to extra money. In short, the university referred to the necessary scientific basis, post-doctoral post-doctoral development, the ability of teachers to cooperate internationally, etc. If the entire curriculum is maintained in this specific field without seeing possible secondary growth and research, this kind of training is not exactly what the University of Tartu wants to deal with. Yes, further training may be too low. What are these modules going to be, which I hope can be negotiated with the university. I am also thinking about resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U102	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! The administrative contract places a certain responsibility on the institution of higher education to transport this curriculum, manage this curriculum. Now that the university Senate decided, referring to these reasons, that this curriculum would be closed, would the university still not have the responsibility to propose a clear alternative that would satisfy society? One of the tasks of the university is to be responsible for society as a whole. How's the Ministry moving on from here? And have the speech recognition devices, which are in the experimental phase and partly available, been tested at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U104	Thank you. The University of Tartu, as a national university, has a great responsibility in society, but this does not diminish the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research. Surely the state and the university need to be jointly responsible for this training. Yes, alternatives have been offered, there is readiness. We must also take into account the arguments of the university, especially the scientific basis relating to the field of study. Do we have it all figured out yet? No, it's not! It has not been decided on the extent to which and which modules will come for further training, how to do all this. The subject is under discussion, but there is not yet a final solution. Now, do I personally believe that these computers will completely replace sign language translation? I don't think so! Technology will certainly ease the situation. For example, in teaching, it may be possible for a young person to grasp and read the text, but people are of different ages, their ability to read the text quickly varies greatly. Technology can only be applied in certain cases. I imagine it could be a very good alternative in university studies to be in the lecture all the time, but it's still in the experimental phase. How it's really gonna work, how good it is, I can't tell from this remote today. I have information that this is all at the test stage and the first feedback has been good, but yes, we really have to consider the level of education of people, their age, their eyes, whatever. This certainly does not mean offering a solution to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U105	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You said that the development of information technology has helped move life forward. Yes, it has helped, implants and speech recognition tools help the deaf a lot, but a new generation. We are actually talking about all generations. The deaf community as a whole is shrinking, but these people will always be. They're real people. And it should be noted that their native language is not Estonian, but Estonian sign language. They do not know the Estonian language as well as they do sign language, and they have to cope with it in society. You're talking about the Ministry trying to reach an agreement with the University of Tartu to...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U107	Please ask a question, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U108	...this training would be part of the program. Should a sign - language interpreter be a challenge in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U109	Unfortunately, I don't know enough about the arrangements for hearing impaired people that I can comment on here. I have been very concerned about the information that these translations have been used little. But I assume that the question has been made to point out that we need to consider together how sign language translation can be better implemented and who is financing this work. This is how the specialists in the Ministry of Education formulated the problem. The university has had two reasons for offering secondary specialty. One has been that they themselves are unable to maintain this curriculum on a full and science-based basis, because they do not have enough succeeding growth and other resources. That is why they have proposed to somehow integrate sign language learning into other disciplines and still keep it at higher education level. So the rest of the subjects would come from other faculties. Sign language interpreter is not limited to a marginal area; he receives basic scientific knowledge from another field of study. That's the idea. Whether a student acquires sign language together with special pedagogy, with philology, it needs to be considered. Even the medical field has been offered, but here again I'd be a little careful knowing how huge the competition is for the medical department. We're saying that this study could be there, but at the same time, a lot of people can't access it. We still have to think about what other knowledge the sign language interpreter might acquire to have full higher education. It's a college idea. Not that translating sign language is just someone's side business. I believe that if we are able to think the problem through and this training will be directed at certain people, the result will be better than it is now. But we must analyse it well and take into account that this education is also available to those who wish. I don't think you'll be allowed another question, but I'm ready to answer you more separately. When I prepared answers to this question, I realized that the Ministry of Education and Research is also ready for discussions and that the university has brought its arguments as to why it is concerned that it cannot continue the way it was. The final decision on how to proceed is not yet. They're looking for the best solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U110	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I have to admit that the answers were substantive and practical, but the tone that remained sounded more than worrying and saddening. Actually, the heart got even harder than it was before the question, because I was hoping that there would be an answer that would give me a little bit of hope. Our third question was on the subject of the Minister's conclusion. Yes, if the University of Tartu is concerned that there is not enough interest that sign language interpreters do not have jobs, they do not have output, then the solution must be sought in cooperation between the various ministries. Where does the order come from, and who pays for the service? The need for translation services, as we know, is very high, but its availability is very poor. Translation would be needed more than it would be possible to provide a service and we would have solvent customers. The most important law in the Republic of Estonia is the Constitution. I will bring out three important points in the context of this inquiry, stressing that finding a solution is the task of the state and not only does the University of Tartu have to take responsibility for it. The preamble to our constitution states: 'The unwavering faith and unwavering will to consolidate and develop a country which... must ensure the preservation of Estonian nation and culture through the ages... ' and it is specified in § 12, which makes it clear that everyone is equal before the law, that no one must be discriminated against because of his disability. We also take the language law here, according to which the Estonian language is said to be an independent language and the Estonian sign language is an independent language, and the Estonian language is the expression of the Estonian language. And § 3 (3) of the same law says that the state supports the protection, use and development of the regional forms of Estonian language. Paragraph 5 states that any language other than Estonian and Estonian sign language is a foreign language. In other words, there is a very clear message in the laws: Deaf people have the right to use their native language, which is Estonian sign language. In 2012, we adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and there is one stem article that bears the number 9 and speaks of accessibility. It is very clear that, in order for people with disabilities to have the opportunity to live independently and participate fully in all areas of life, the state must, in fact, state and no one else! just do everything to ensure that people with disabilities have access to information and means of communication on an equal footing with other people, both in the city and in the countryside. To this end, the State must identify and remove barriers to access. We know what these barriers to access are. Firstly, we do not have sign language translation, and secondly, we do not have the capacity in local governments to provide this service and people's ability to buy this service. In fact, we know these reasons. It is now important to find solutions. Yes, with the entry into force of the law and the training of sign language interpreters started at the University of Tartu in 2006, we have achieved a situation where deaf people are involved in society as they have never been before. Thanks to the provision of professional sign language translation services, doors have also opened to the deaf community, which have so far been closed. They learn, they work, they participate in society, they are active members of society. Implants are very important and certainly a certain number of children will benefit from them. Information technology is certainly helpful, but it does not replace sign language translation services. On the basis of the above, it is very strange, and indeed unacceptable, to close the curriculum for sign language interpreters without having a tangible solution on the table. This decision, apparently involving a small group, has a very long-term impact. The curriculum will be closed and it will take a long time to train new sign language translators. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U112	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U113	Consider that our constitution also says that everyone has the right to education. And the Education Act says that schoolchildren are all children up to the age of 18, including deaf children. But how do they get an education? We want them to make the best use of their talents to be involved. We recognise that the situation is not good now, but we have achieved something and we must not reverse this success. It's just not allowed! Often, the planning of service volumes is based solely on the needs of deaf people for sign language translation services. In fact, however, sign - language translation is not only needed by deaf people; it is also needed by hearing people to communicate with sign - language deaf people. For example, employers need it in communication with their employees, training, meetings, as well as hearing officials in contact with deaf customers. Of course, we can ironically say that let him learn to read from his mouth! You don't need sign language! So cynically, we can say that we will all learn sign language as listeners. But these are no sensible solutions. Sign language translator service is like a bridge between these two communities. The deaf community has been a very closed community, and now it has become increasingly open. But not only do we not have enough sign language translation and the volume of service provision is not sufficient, I would say that our Social Welfare Act is also a little to blame for that. At present, it does not provide for the obligation of a local authority to provide the sign language translation service that was in the previous version. Local authorities have limited resources and there are also different limitations to receiving translation services. For example, in Tallinn, a sign language deaf can use sign language translation services for a maximum of two hours per month. In an effort to imagine that one person's communication is limited to two hours a month, it is likely easier to understand how difficult it is for a deaf person to cope in a hearing world. Considering that there are only 21 sign language interpreters in Estonia with professional certificates, multiply the number of interpreters by the number of hours, it turns out that indeed, one sign language interpreter does not have a full load. And that's the problem. That's why they don't have to study. That's why these curricula are under-filled. So we come to the conclusion that, in fact, only every other deaf person can use his two hours of translation per month. They don't have a service to get from anywhere. This is a serious problem. The question is the constitutional rights of the deaf, the right to communicate in their own language, which is also the official language of Estonia. Both the interviewers and the Estonian Federation of Kurtists are deeply concerned about how to involve the deaf community in Estonian society in the growing number of interpreters, how they can take better care of themselves. It is also important whether we have to accept a situation where the deaf community is becoming an even more closed community than it is now. In fact, it depends on us, depending on the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U114	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U115	Mr President of the sitting! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The involvement of the deaf, just sign - language deaf, is their human right, their fundamental right. They must have the opportunity to be involved in society, to cope with society, and vice versa, others must have the opportunity to communicate with them. It is not easy; it is not possible without sign language interpreters. I came to the remote to talk about a September case right here. A meeting was organised at which the presence of a representative of the deaf would have been very necessary after a couple of days' notice. Unfortunately, he could not participate because in two days it was simply not possible to find sign - language interpreters. However, the fact that the three written interpreters invited for the hearing at the meeting actually took part, and one of the three was actually a sign - language interpreter from basic education. It's a very strange situation. This person came as a written translator because he had been ordered to do so, but he is actually an interpreter of sign language. But since he could not be used as a sign - language interpreter, the Deaf representative did not attend that meeting. This took place right here in the Riigikogu. But more generally, it means that these people are actually having a hard time. We are talking about the labour market here, we are talking about education. Everything is right, but these people would also like to participate more in society, such as theatres and seminars, cinemas and other leisure events. This option is limited to the absence of sign language interpreters. There is no point in talking about the development of information technology. It's a solution for children born deaf, but it's not a solution for adults. There is no point in blaming the Social Welfare Act. According to the Local Government Organisation Act, local governments are obliged to identify the need for help and find a solution accordingly. So a different social welfare law in itself wouldn't make anything better if there were mandatory sign language interpreters in it. It's the lack of money. But if we give a clear message, in addition to the lack of money, that sign language is no longer being trained, it will, first, paralyze the deaf community, which will become even more closed. Secondly, we are trying to improve this whole accessibility issue here in Estonia, but it needs a solution. I call on the Minister to make the most of the effort to ensure that the deaf have at least the belief that they are preserved and necessary in Estonia to seek solutions for the training of sign language interpreters. These people are, as was said here before, a bridge between ordinary society and deaf society. That bridge has to be. If it's not there, it's gonna get really out of hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U116	Members of the Riigikogu no longer wish to speak, nor does the Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U117	The next question is presented by Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõm, Enn Meri, Külliki Kübarsepp and Ain Lutsepp. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U118	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Madam Minister! Good people's representatives! Six members of the Estonian Free Party submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research, which concerns a subject that was discussed in this Chamber a little less than a year ago. The Minister, along with his ministry, came up with very serious amendments to the private school law as well as the basic school and upper secondary school law. Allegedly, the aim was to facilitate the implementation of inclusive education at all levels of school. The goal itself is very beautiful, very right. I think we all support that every child gets the best education for him so that he is kept to feel good at school. This good education would also mean that the child could learn according to his or her abilities. However, there were a lot of doubters in this proposal. There were fears among the schoolchildren themselves, fears of parents, fears of teachers, school leaders, local authorities and perhaps most of all of the specialist circles that included logopaedos and social psychologists. How well are our schools ready to successfully implement inclusive education? Do we have enough training resources? Do we have enough support specialists? As a society as a whole, are we ready for this? The Minister had thought this through very well. He had the answers, and he said he hoped that these support specialists, they were then logopaedics, psychologists, special educators or social pedagogues, had in the meantime found an application in another sphere and, if you support local authorities with adequate financial support, raised the pay of support specialists, we could overcome these bottlenecks. Now it's a new school year. It's been going on for months. Our concern is how these legislative changes have actually been implemented. Is there enough support specialists in schools? Have the external counselling teams introduced into the law as a new phenomenon become operational? How have local authorities managed to cope with all these changes? A new possibility has also been included in the Act: the status of assistant teacher has been defined. Has the role of assistant teacher been understood and, if so, where has it been reached? And perhaps the most important question: how have our teachers been prepared for this change? How has the school been able to start its work in the light of these changes? There are six questions. I hope that the Minister of Education and Science will read the questions himself, so he will have better answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U119	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps will answer the inquiry first within 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U120	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, if you'll excuse me, one sentence to close the previous question. Tomorrow, we will have another debate with public universities, which will discuss both the training of sign language interpreters and the very important issue raised by us all in this inquiry on the order of special pedagogy and logopaedia training. Now questions-answers. I'm trying to fit in 15 minutes. I don't know how fast I can report all this, but I'll do my best. 'What kind of funding does school guarantee the learning needed for students' individual needs? To what extent does the Ministry of Education and Research allocate the education allowance authorised for the implementation of study support to local authorities? How is targeted use of funds allocated to different types of support ensured? " As well as the good heirs mentioned in the introduction, support for children in need of support was significantly increased in 2018 to support private general education school managers in local governments. More than 23 million additional funding was provided to municipal school managers in 2018, including enhanced support and the cost of operating and support services for children in need 17.4 million. 3.1 million were added to the education support provided through the Fund to enable support services for children in general need of support. The basis for calculating the grant from the state budget to cover the costs of municipal schools is the number of students after the Estonian Education Information System (EHIS) as at 10 November of the year preceding the planned year. The general principles for the allocation and use of support for general education schools from the state budget for local government units are laid down in Regulation No 16 of the Government of the Republic of 6 February 2015. Enhanced support and financial support for pupils in need include both higher-rate teacher wage support and operating cost support. The use of the operating cost allowance from the state budget is specified in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which, according to § 82 (3) (4) of which the Municipality or the City may use the operating cost allowance to implement enhanced support and special support for students and to cover the labour costs of support specialists provided that support specialists are guaranteed a remuneration equivalent to the minimum wage for teachers. The purpose of the operational cost support is to support enhanced support and to provide the necessary support services, tailor-made teaching materials and tools to students in need, as well as costs related to the provision of an environment. The Ministry of Education and Research monitors the school's data on the support measures implemented in the EHIS and compares them with the information received from non-school advisory teams. If, on the basis of the EHIS, the measures indicated by the school are found not to comply with the recommendations, the details will be clarified and the provision of support to the school pupils will be advised. A monitoring procedure shall be initiated in case of non-systemically supporting students. 'How have schools succeeded in providing students with special needs with general space and educational resources and ensuring the availability of a special needs student training coordinator and support specialists by the beginning of the academic year? What measures, activities are planned by schools to implement 9.5 million euros from the grant "Small solutions for integrating HEV students into mainstream schools"? (European Regional Development Fund contribution). ' That was all the question. Here's the answer. It has been the task of schools since 2010 to ensure the service of support specialists and to coordinate the learning of pupils with special educational needs. The 2018 amendment provided for additional resources for schoolteachers to support students with special needs. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, the School Director designates a coordinator for students with special educational needs to organise the identification and implementation of the necessary support for students. The role of coordinator is usually carried out by a school support specialist or in schools where a separate support centre has been set up, its head. For example, it is at Saue Gymnasium and Jüri Gymnasium. One of the recommendations of the CentAR survey on inclusive education, which was completed in 2016, was to establish a coordinator for pupils with special educational needs in large schools. Many schools have used this solution, such as Järveküla, Tabasalu and Keila School, as well as Tartu Hansa Kool and Võru Kreutzwald School. In order to support the development of students, at school they will be provided with at least specialist pedagogy, logopaedic, psychologist and social pedagogy services, if necessary. The main task of the support specialist is to identify the special needs of students and to advise teachers on how to adapt learning, what educational materials and methodological techniques to use. However, the teacher has the primary responsibility for organising learning for students with special needs. In certain areas there is a lack of support specialists. However, the existing support specialists do not work full-time as they do not need full-time specialists in small rural schools. Support specialists can work more flexibly in the larger local governments that have been formed as a result of the administrative reform. They can be concentrated in local government units serving schools in one region. The operating cost support granted by the State also allows support specialists to be paid better wages. The state has increased the capacity of school holders by providing them with greater financial support. The municipality, in cooperation with the schools, will decide how to ensure the best access to support services. Regulation No 12 of the Ministry of Education and Research of 10 April 2018 "Application of the principles of inclusive education in general education schools for the period 2014 to 2020' lays down the conditions and procedures for granting and using grants to achieve the objectives and results of the "School Network' activity "Small solutions for the integration of HEV students into mainstream schools'. That's now the 9.5 million question. The purpose of the grant is to increase the readiness of general education schools to implement the principles of inclusive education, according to which pupils with special educational needs generally study in part or in full in the school of their place of residence and, where possible, in the normal class. The applicant may be both a local authority and a private schoolteacher. In order to develop inclusive education infrastructure, it is possible to apply for support for the purchase of equipment, equipment, teaching aids and educational materials for students with special educational needs, both for the necessary construction for the adaptation of buildings and for students with special educational needs. The call for applications is open from 12 July 2018 until the end of the free money. Information on the call for applications is available on the Innove website of the SA. One application has been submitted so far, 28 applications have been submitted. 'How has the work of extracurricular counselling teams been launched on the basis of the Pathfinder network? The project period will end in 2020. How will the sustainability of the project be ensured? Pursuant to § 47 (1) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, the Ministry of Education and Research organises recommendations for organising education and education and for implementing support services. In order to carry out this task, an administrative contract has been concluded with Innove SA. According to the previous regulation, both the county advisory committees and the national commission made recommendations, the recommendation of all measures has now been taken to the county level. The needs of students in need of specific learning arrangements and more extensive support services are assessed in cooperation with parents, schoolteachers and schools by advisory teams, which include professionals from different fields, whose recommendations are for meeting the needs of the schoolkeeper and the school. The extra-school advisory team operates on the basis of common service standards in each county's Pathfinder centre. Ensuring the necessary support for students remains a priority of the Ministry of Education and Research and the provision and organisation of recommendations at national level will continue. 'How do advice teams reach teachers who directly deal with children with special needs? 'The recommendation of the external counseling team shall be made available to the applicant in the manner indicated by the person in the application. After giving the recommendation, the information decision will move to the Estonian Education Information System, after which the school will ask the parent to consent to the implementation of the recommendation. If the parent has consented to the implementation of the recommendation, the counselling team will enter the recommendation into the Estonian Education Information System within five working days and it will become visible to the school within 12 hours after the EHIS consent has been entered. In the Estonian Education Information System, with the agreement of the school manager and the school's parent, the recommendations of the external guidance team are visible for the implementation of the support service and school organisation measures. The school and schoolteacher can also see what measures the school has taken in the past to support the student. When a student changes school or starts studying at the next level of education, the recommendations of the extra-school counselling team and the measures taken in the previous school are visible in the last three years. Access to the information entered in the EHIS shall be provided by the Director. Among other things, recommendations from the external guidance team are also included in the student's individual development follow-up card. Question 5: 'How much did the Ministry increase at the beginning of this academic year's public training order for psychologists, logos and special needs teachers? How many schools were forced to start the academic year without the necessary support specialists? ' The national training order was abolished as early as 2013 in the course of the higher education reform and the main obligations arising from the state's needs will be agreed on administrative contracts with universities. Student planning shall be based, inter alia, on forecasts of labour needs. The number of support specialists in the coming years will be determined on the basis of the needs of the OSA Education and Science Report. According to the OSKA study on the need for labour in the education sector, about 75 additional support specialists, including 25 logo beets, 42 specialist pedagogues and 11 psychologists, are needed every year during the period 2018 to 2025. 15 students have been admitted to a master's degree in psychology in the last two years at Tallinn University, 25 at the University of Tartu. In total, there are 40 places in a master's degree in psychology. The number of admissions to Master's degree in Special Pedagogics and Logopedia at the University of Tartu has been 40 in the last two years. At Tallinn University, reception for specialized education counsellors has grown from 25 to 40. A total of 80 places were therefore accepted for Master's studies in Special Pedagogics and Logopedia in 2018. The University of Tartu is ready to increase the reception of both logopaedia and special pedagogy from 2019/2020. from the current 40 to 50 years of study, i.e. 25 logo beets and 25 special pedagogues. Thus, 2019's reception is 90 places for two universities in the post-graduate studies of logo beet and special pedagogy: 25 logo beets and 65 special pedagogy, which according to OSKA corresponds to the new working and market needs. In order to provide the service of support specialists, the Director shall employ a support specialist or arrange for the availability of the service by other means. According to data from the Estonian Education Information System, 1158 support specialists are employed in general education schools, including 359 social pedagogues, 272 logopeds, 232 school psychologists and 295 special pedagogues in 448 schools. This is 85% of all general education schools. At the same time, the EHIS does not include support specialists who are employed by the schoolkeeper, such as the City of Pärnu or Viljandi, or who provide the service on other grounds. As there are increasing numbers of schoolchildren considering a proposal to pool support specialists in a single centre where the service is provided to all district schools, it is planned that by the end of this year the EHIS will also include data on the support specialists employed in the school with whom the schoolkeeper has concluded an employment contract. Question 6: "How far has the Ministry come by clarifying the role and duties of assistant teachers? Has the most suitable model for applying an assistant teacher to the Estonian educational landscape been developed? ' The role and tasks of the assistant teacher in supporting the student are in the guidance materials developed by the schools. At present, it is up to the schools to decide on the qualifications requirements of the assistant teacher. A Regulation for the establishment of uniform qualification requirements for teachers is under preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U121	Questions for the Minister. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. You've read everything off the paper in a completely unfamiliar way. There was a lot of bills. I kind of got the feeling that everything was really good. Now, please tell me directly how many schools are in real trouble because there are no support specialists, there are no assistant teachers, and the teachers who work in front of the class every day are worried because they cannot cope with the real situation!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U123	Thank you, good questioner! The hardworking bee family of the Ministry of Education had prepared very thorough answers. I have long thought that the form of answering questions could be that we send out written answers and then discuss in this Chamber. But it's the way it is now. Perhaps an important keyword, which we have discussed repeatedly in this Chamber, is that the support services did not come into law for the first time as a legislative amendment. There have been better and worse times in providing support services, but the truth is that this discussion has been going on since 2010. The question is whether local authorities have quite embraced this new obligation in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which was approved eight to nine years ago. After all, the court was even reached, and finally the court took the view that the service of a social pedagogue was a new obligation for the municipality. At the same time, the goal is important in itself: all children must feel well at school and receive the best education that matches their abilities. In the meantime, there has been a change. Very little time has passed since that decision. Those teachers who were actually specialized teachers, but in the meantime they were renamed teachers to receive a salary from the same payroll, are now, head up, again specialized teachers. We can see that. Whether they're all reorganized in the EHIS, I don't know, but at school, these people can now proudly say that they're special educators. A special teacher is proud to be a more sought-after specialty than, for example, a regular schoolteacher. Such a change has taken place. And another change has taken place: parents and teachers themselves have become more demanding. Until quite recently, it was quite common for the school people not to be able to go to the school principal or the municipality with the desire to have one or another specialist help, but they are now ready to make much more of such requests. That's positive. What else has changed? Some people have gone back to school and this is because the school payroll fund is competitive. If, some time ago, the Pathfinder clearly paid more, now it's more like the same level. And if you're a mentally specialized educator, I don't want to say that there are no such people at the Pathfinder's center, then continuous, specific work with children should be more interesting than, say, giving instructions. That's what we're gonna notice. At the same time, it must also be noted that this second level of assistance is actually needed. We can't shut down the Trackers. How many specialists are missing? Most of these figures have not improved. But again, it's only been six months since the law was applied. Most of the support specialists are still working under low pressure. Some of them are, in fact, teachers who do the work of a support specialist alongside their main work. Some, however, have sufficient clientele in the private sector, and they want to work at school with very little pressure. In particular, we see this when a person can work in a hospital, for example, and then they have a very small load at school. There may be other reasons. It's gonna need more research. How many schools do they look for? Very, very different. Perhaps a parent says that his child's school does not have a support specialist. Then we'll contact the school. There are cases where it is clear that some children need the help of a support specialist, but parental awareness is very low. It may also be that if the school does not have a support specialist, it is not because the school has not been looking for him. They just haven't found a person in this place. I don't generally want to blame schools, but it has to be said that understanding changes is also different. At least in larger centres, there are still more schools dealing with these children than others. So the picture is variable. Now, what's like a common indicator? Right now, I was talking about special education. As far as logo beets are concerned, there is a perception in society that they are not enough. Kindergartens say practically everyone that there could be more, and much more. In this way, according to the rule of thumb, there could be more than 1000 logopeds. If local governments had a payroll fund, it would be like employing logos. But we need to see if every kindergarten needs a payroll to hire logos. The head of kindergarten may think it is necessary, the kindergarten teachers may think it is necessary, but whether there should be a payroll for each kindergarten is a question of its own. But a lot of logos are needed, now they come from the university 25 every year. It is also important to note here that if a very clear direction has been taken at Tallinn University that people who are already working will come to study special education and have gone on to apply cycle learning and flexible forms of study, this is not the case at the University of Tartu. For example, you can only study as a logo beet in a day's study. We, the Ministry of Education and Research, have been very much asked to further teach the logo beets. That, too, is one issue that we can discuss with the Rectors tomorrow. However, there may still be additional opportunities, although the university has initially responded that human resources are limited and the logopedia needs a great deal of commitment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U124	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you once again for your interesting answers. When I got it right, you said 85% of general education schools had a support specialist. I have attended 70 schools as a member of the Riigikogu and there really are support specialists in many schools, but the burden on these support specialists is so high that they actually fail to do one job with a child or to provide guidance to teachers. In the last Teacher's page, the Head of the Department of Special Education at the University of Tartu wrote about how more specialized education could be placed on the market. You have certainly read it, and my question is: what are your suggestions, how can we get to special pedagogies faster?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U126	These numbers to answer you have been found in the EHIS for me. And the numbers are, unfortunately, like this. Whether 85% of schools have support specialists needs to be specified. It must also be acknowledged that these are aggregated data. Maybe there's a logo beet in one place, there's a special teacher in the other, a social teacher in the third, but there's everything in the fourth. How do I get more specialists? These solutions are offered by the different members of society quite a lot. I believe the keyword here could be stability. When this legislative amendment was made in 2010, it only took a few years for this payroll to disappear somewhere and to give the mixed signals that were behind the loss of the payroll. The end result, however, was that it was actually fun to have the Pathfinder centers. It's really good at consulting centers. But yes, schools have different needs. One key word that has been heard from many young people is confidence. They want to know that they can actually be special educators, for example. Then they can commit to it. There's a lot of interest. Very often it has to do with some personal reason for going to study it, and then it is done with a tremendous dedication. I believe that if the support specialist's salary were equal to the teacher's salary and moved at the same pace, this commitment would have another objective and we would achieve stability. Another solution is to increase the training order, although it cannot be submitted as a training order. Rather, there can be an increase in sector-specific resources. As far as logopaedics are concerned, this is a very specific issue. The question is whether we should be able to train logos to expand, and if we extend it, how. This is a very sensitive subject. The association of logos has been very cautious in this regard. But we train 25 logo beets a year, and it does not fulfil the current labour market needs, let alone the ten-year perspective. The growth is clearly too low. Whether we allow logos to be trained in some form of refresher training or other additional training, at least in part, this is perhaps the most acute issue. Psychologists' training is also a separate subject. Psychology is of great interest, but relatively few graduates specialize in school psychologists. This is one of the subject of negotiations for the conclusion of administrative agreements. In the training of psychologists at Tallinn University, knowledge of work in school is very good. Perhaps in psychology, more emphasis should be placed on the specifics of school psychology, so that young people who study psychology there begin to think about the possibility of going to school from the very beginning. That, too, is one of the signals the Ministry has wanted to give to the university.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U127	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, My supplementary question stems from the third question of inquiry. Your answer was rushed forward and came to the whirlwind, but I think you remained rather laconic when you answered our question that the project period of the track-finder teams will end sometime and how the sustainability of the project will be ensured. The only thing I saw was that in any case, it's guaranteed. But as far as I know, the tracker's activities have also been supported by European Union money. The National Audit Office has repeatedly paid attention to the fact that we will have to cope on our own from 2020. My question is how this sustainability is ensured, how the financing of the project is ensured.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U129	Thank you, very good question! Innove is a very large institution. It has a number of different roles, and the budget is also quite considerable. The programmes that started with European money will, of course, continue beyond 2020. Most of the programmes have already been extended in 2022. The ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's Governing Council of the ECB's At the same time, the use of European money, either way, is limited to a certain period, and we are constantly reviewing the programmes. For example, with regard to career guidance, which has been a very important field of work, Innovel has agreed that it will move step-by-step to the work fund and, in the provision of labour market services, develop such complex career guidance by Innove and the best professionals of the work fund. The trackfinder has been one of the main tasks of Innove. The termination of this programme cannot prevent the provision of this service. I'm sure a good questioner would like to know more about it. As a minister, I can tell you how this is happening in real life. The thing is, we're running out of programs and some programs are coming up, but there's gotta be some core activities all the time. The design of the programmes may change, and sometimes some people are employed on a project basis, etc. Trackers and support specialists are not at work on a programme basis. The money was clearly earmarked to increase the teachers' payroll, with certain European sums being raised there. In any case, our so-called exit strategy is such that services must be guaranteed. Does this mean any change in Innove's tasks and requires additional requests from the Ministry of Education, which is the subject of next spring when discussing the country's budgetary strategy. As we know, the Riigikogu still has to discuss issues related to Innove's activities. There may also be some means to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U130	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, My question concerns an issue that was already addressed by Mr Herkel. Career advisors and career counseling working at the Pathfinder Centres will be transferred to Innove Foundation. What qualitative change is expected? What is the purpose of this change? What has to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U132	This work will be transferred from Innove Foundation to the unemployment fund, i.e. the unemployment fund, as it is now called. And the reason is that we have set the goal of less bureaucracy in the country, less duplication. Until then, these specialists worked in the Pathfinder of Innove Foundation, now moving from there to the former unemployment fund, now called the unemployment fund. They move there and start doing the same counseling. The same activity has also been carried out in the work fund: specialists have gone to schools to give advice to students individually and to groups. Thus, clearly two duplications. Throughout this year, there have been many meetings and discussions on how to put these two activities together. Since this work has been carried out on a programme-by-programme basis by the Pathfinder and is the main activity of the staff, it was decided to pool the best experts in a work fund. People's task will be the same: to engage in career guidance for both individuals and groups. They go to schools, give personal counseling, and give lectures to entire classes. How everything will be from 2019, where someone will be working, depends on the specific region. In some places, the Pathfinder has been a very powerful team, and it has been decided very clearly that it will move to the cashier. But in another place, it is said that there will be individual interviews with the candidates. Is this some kind of qualitative leap we're looking at? No, we were very happy with the career guidance system. It all started really hard. It was very, very difficult for schools to explain what it was and what they were doing. But trust grew, and very good contacts with schools arose. We all have to understand that once we have put up big slogans, that we are optimizing the country and eliminating duplication, this has been one of the areas where two ministries saw that there is a clear duplication. That's why they do it. Yes, from the point of view of every human being, such a change is disturbing, but we are doing everything we can to ensure that the best experts do not disappear from this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U133	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. We know that there is a shortage of specialists, and even though there will be more, not as quickly as necessary. At the same time, we know that special needs are very different. Surely it will never be that everything is properly prepared, we are prepared for anything, etc. But in addition to the Pathfinder, we have very good centres, which could be called schools, which are also competence centres. We will take Masing School in Tartu or Konstantin Päts Open Air School in Tallinn. And there are actually quite a few more. Here's my question. As long as we do not have enough specialists, does the Ministry have mechanisms to encourage teachers to study in these competence centres? Perhaps even bring children to a competence center for a period of time, if necessary, so that they can somehow get on the track? Is that meant to be? Is this real?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U135	Thank you for a good question. Since such a competence centre has the best knowledge of yes, I absolutely agree. Teacher training involves specialists who work in these schools. The schools themselves are prepared to advise. How we can take advantage of the same level-two counseling and even more of these people is constantly on our desk. Sometimes it seems that these specialists are extremely busy, because really, there are very, very many problems. It is often preferable to hear the experience that good Monika, how you handled this situation, we now have this situation in class. Counselling is very difficult at all, because not all individual cases can be solved in one visit. This is sometimes the criticism of the Pathfinder when he has been very far away and has helped very briefly. It has been criticised that there was one situation at the time you were present, but the child was followed for a week and found that the situation was quite different. But now, briefly, what opportunities do we have to involve these schools? In the case of children with special needs, I do not really imagine that the school environment will make a difference. In some cases perhaps, but rather, you might still be able to move professionals. Much depends on the specific need. We have the most children in schools with Asperger syndrome and other autism spectrum disorders, and environmental change can be very difficult. Rather, a stable situation is important. As a cooperation under this 10-million measure, this advice is very, very important. Some children can really study at a school where there is a very small experience in this field. If we can help someone, if a concrete proposal is made, then it must be done. I have already given these examples here that it is sometimes enough to allocate a rather small amount. For example, some children usually do very well in the classroom, but in the meantime, they need to turn themselves off. The Dutch have introduced silence valves, and I know it has been done by some of our schools, too. The kid's still in the room, but he can shut himself down in the meantime. A simple, two hundred-euro solution offers this opportunity. Or the classroom is designed a little differently, using different furniture, partition walls. Little things like that are something we can do. But that is only possible if the school has the ability to ask and there is someone who comes to practically help and says that we watched this child, we identified those and those problems that can be solved on the ground in this way. In some children, directing to a small class may be counterproductive, as children with very different diagnosiss tend to be directed into small classes. Some children may find it harder to study with other children with special needs. With 20 children in the normal class, perhaps he could be given better chances. So it's very individual. I don't know if they ask for help from another school very often. It is often the case that one teacher asks the other for advice. And they are well-open when it comes to specific cases, such as Asperger's syndrome and other autism, as was indicated. Schools are the usual places for advice. If you add two or three more schools to the above, it is the circle that advises teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U136	Thank you, Minister Mailis Reps! Members of the Riigikogu will no longer ask today. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U137	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Thank you, Madam Minister, for giving us such meaningful and focused answers in such an empty hall at such a late hour. In fact, there are few really new things in the world. The same inclusive education was introduced into the Estonian-language education system at the time of the development of the Estonian-language school education. Then it was only said in a simpler way: we want to provide the best education for each child according to his or her needs and abilities. The year was 1906, so it was a long time ago. I don't think we know much about living memories ever since. I read here today from the Minister's answers that this whole issue is very broad. We managed to find out within a short period of time what the situation is like: how many specialists, where something is missing, where there are weak places, where there are strong places. But we didn't, we didn't touch at all the three perhaps the most important links: children, teachers and schools. The schoolhouse with all the conditions offered by the classes and the building as a whole to each child. One of the great differences in our time and in this distant time is that in 1906 it was mainly said that we also need to focus on the fact that a teacher who works with such different children would have the same authority for everyone to have authority over the child who is still reading, and also for the child who reads the fluently great novels of Jenoveva. Perhaps here is one of the key points that we should feel better when we touch on any issue in education: we need to know what one or the other change in this whole system means. Where have all these doubts about these amendments and their urgency come from? They are because we have perhaps talked little about the importance of one or the other change in how much education is needed when the whole education system is needed. We are, like, ashamed to repeat such words and talk a great deal about technical, sometimes very technical details, but we leave very little time to emphasise the integrity, importance and, perhaps, the two most important elements of education and the whole system, the central players in this system: they are children and teachers. With regard to all this broad topic, one should reconsider that if we want to continue to implement inclusive education effectively and this is basically the right one, then whether it is really right and necessary to increasingly determine close-home schools to disappear. Perhaps we should consider that the most important thing in organizing the entire school network and the education system is for a small child to go to his or her own school near home. Here we see how our education system, which is already very diverse, is linked to all our other areas of life. So, strength, Madam Minister! And thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U138	The people's ambassadors have no further call, the minister has no further call. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-15_U139	Free microphone on the basis of § 157 of the Riigikogu Civil Procedure Act. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 6.58 p.m.
