ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Opening of the 7th working week of the VIIIth plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Please! Representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, be good!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates 3 draft laws and submits 11 draft decisions of the Riigikogu. The first draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Industrial Emissions Act. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and related amendments to other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. Fifthly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. Sixthly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Army'. Seventhly, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian state during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali. Eighthly, the draft of the decision of the Riigikogu 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon'. Ninth, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan. 10th, using the Riigikogu decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to it by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations.' By the eleventh, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia draft. By the twelfth, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali. 13th, extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in the performance of the international military operation Inherent Resolve. And by the fourteenth, the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq'. Jüri Luik, Minister of Defence, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these 11 draft decisions of the Riigikogu in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U3	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted 14 drafts and we will continue to act with them in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now one message: today, after the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting of the President Trump's Support Group in this Chamber. The caller is Peter Ernits. [[The excitement in the hall.]] Incoming check, please! 81 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I understand it's exciting. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the seventh working week of the VIII session. Please take a stand and vote. There are 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U4	The first item on the agenda is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Yoko Alender, Meelis Mälberg, Heidy Purga, Peep Aru, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Lauri Luik, Taavi Rõivas, Urmas Kruuse, Valdo Randpere, Aivar Surva, Ants Laaneots, Jüri Jaanson, Toomas Kivimägi, Marko Mihkelson, Jürgen Ligi, Artur Talvik, Kalle Palling and Arto Aas. On behalf of the heirs, Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, This Trump thing's gonna have to wait a little while, let's talk about local stuff first. Last week we read the news about the activity of Estonian children. The assessment is barely satisfactory this year, and this is because the youngest people, who go to very many groups of interests, are also taken into account, which compensates for the low level of daily movement. Teenagers who lose their circles of interest will lose their activity to unsatisfactory levels. We parents are half overweight. The examples start here. Cycling is one of the best ways to get a daily exercise through sufficient physical exercise that is healthy. Half an hour of work or school and just as much of you back will ensure adequate movement. Therefore, the promotion of bicycle use has also been thoroughly addressed in other parts of the world. Systematic promotion means, in my view, that there is a national target, a plan to achieve this, and an operational programme and a budget. The public must be able to read this plan somewhere and observe what has been done. Systematic promotion in government governance means addressing all aspects of cycling, health, social and cultural aspects. This means regional policy, the creation of an environment, the development of both infrastructure and awareness. At grass root level, there is a movement to promote good cycling in Estonia, but there are many of them, but by acting alone, the results may remain random. Thus, the situation is very different across Estonia, often at random. Recently, when the Riigikogu arrived in the public initiative procedure...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U6	Sorry, Yoko! People's ambassadors Lenk and Savisaar, hello! My deepest respect, your exchange of views is certainly very important, but since you are doing it in the auditorium, it is interfering with others. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Kas kostab hästi?'???]] Yeah, sounds good. Thank you. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U7	Thank you, good manager. Recently, the Riigikogu received a public initiative bill that would increase the safety of riders on roads and roads. In addition, there are some examples at local level. There is a superb bicycle strategy in Tallinn that was drawn up before the elections, but the application is not yet visible. In Viljandi's inclusive budget, one of the ideas that locals can support is the creation of bike parks. There are curbstones on the sidewalks in Tartu with an inclusive budget, so that even the smallest can swing the wheel with pleasure. Finally, a comment from those who have been organizing night-time gatherings throughout Estonia for years. Gathering to ride with bicycles. Namely, after years of experience, the Tour d'öö team states that the participants are broken and that there is a way to travel in all parts of Estonia, but nowhere is good. If even the capital does not manage the strategic change, do we really expect the governments alone to create the conditions for healthier choices? We therefore ask the Minister the following questions: When will the state start promoting bicycle use at national level? Is there a plan and an operational programme for this? What aspects of the above are covered? Finally, we are in the middle of next year's budget negotiations. What is the national level budget for promoting cycling? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U8	Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U9	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank the questioners for their questioning, and I am ready to answer these three questions. Firstly, 'When will the promotion of bicycle use be undertaken at national level? ' The development of bicycle and footpaths began in the European Union's financial period 2007-2013 when a total of EUR 43 million was invested in the circa, of which EUR 36 million was co-financing from the European Union. Projects were started to contribute to the construction of cycling and footpaths in neighbouring urban areas. The aim was to develop links between centres and the hinterland and to increase the share of users of sustainable mobility. Similar funding and programme will continue over the period 2014-2020, e.g. from the European Union Fund for Sustainable Development of Urban Regions and Strengthening the competitiveness of Regions. In addition, the Road Administration also establishes bicycles and bicycles to meet road safety objectives in the course of road reconstruction projects. Yes, it must be said that for cyclists, cycling and footpaths are certainly not of the same quality as a bicycle road, since the former can travel by cyclists, balance vehicles and pedestrians. However, it has to be borne in mind that in the neighbourhood of the city, this is currently an adequate balancing alternative, given the traffic density. If demand increases, separate bicycle paths may also be necessary in the nearest areas of the city. The second question: 'Please describe the plan to promote cycling and its implementation plan! How does the plan relate to health, social, cultural, environmental and regional policy aspects? ' MKM, in cooperation with partners, will develop a National Transport and Mobility Development Plan for the 2021+ period, which will address developments in wheel use and describe the role of the country in promoting it in cities. The development of sustainable mobility is also strongly supported by the financial period of the European Union 2021+, where a better integration of different modes of transport and a mobility policy based on people's needs are prioritised. Increasing sustainable urban mobility will also contribute to the European Union's ambient air quality and climate objectives, both in 2030 and in the longer term, by 2050. If you look at the effects, it is appropriate to start with the construction of separate cycling routes in larger cities. This is particularly because cities have a higher level of traffic and a higher proportion of potential wheel users, which would have a major positive impact on the environment, improve health and reduce air pollution. So in this response, we mention that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is working on the development plan for the 2021+ period. The transport development plan for the years 2014 to 2020 was already adopted in February 2014. There is no separate section on bicycle use, but the importance of raising this share has still emerged under different chapters. This is mainly due to the desire to achieve a change in the distribution of modes of movement in favour of more sustainable modes of movement. The current development plan sees the use of bicycles as part of urban mobility, the potential of which is reflected in the possibility of connecting with other modes of mobility. There is a need to combine smooth and comfortable modes of movement. It has also been mentioned in terms of road safety: it is necessary to ensure a safe traffic environment for all road users, of course also for cyclists. The third question: 'What is the budget for promoting cycling? " In order for the state to be able to contribute to the development of cycling routes, it is necessary that cities have a strategy for this. For example, Tallinn adopted its bike strategy for 2018 to 2027 in 2018. In ten years' time, the goal is for 10% of the city to take their daily city rides on a bicycle instead of a car. The strategy sees the need to re-distribute urban space in certain places and to compromise different modes of movement in order to improve the situation of riders and build a comprehensive cycling network. The existence of a local authorities' wheel strategy also enables more knowledge-based and comprehensive investment decisions to be made at national level in order to promote cycling. Given the amount of air pollution caused by mobility in Tallinn in the context of Estonia as a whole, supporting the construction of the basic network of cycling roads can be one of the effective measures to reduce CO2 and nitrogen oxide pollution by 2030 as well as 2050 and to increase ambient air quality. In order to meet the long-term objectives of these indicators, 2030 and 2050, the Ministry of the Environment, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, must propose the selection of effective projects. In order to support projects in the urban cycling network, it is possible to use both the revenue from the sale of CO2 quota and the financing of the Structural Funds for the 2021+ period. The National Transport Infrastructure Development Investment Plan includes a number of large-scale sustainable urban mobility projects, which also focus on the development of bicycle use and are carried out in cooperation with local authorities. I will also give some examples of ongoing projects. First, reconstruction of Gonsiori Street in Tallinn, where attention is paid to the better use of all modes of movement. It is supported by the state through the Structural Funds by nearly EUR 5.5 million. The project "Development of the mobility environment between the Old Port and the city centre' is underway. This is a project on Tallinn Main Street, which focuses on the quality of the public space in the city centre, including cycling roads. The development of Tallinn Main Street is a project of symbolic significance for increasing the proportion of bike use and achieving good urban space that supports it. It is therefore important to keep the focus on sustainable mobility in planning and to stay in the design timetable in order to secure the EU Structural Fund financing of EUR 8.6 million needed to realise the project. Of course, the so-called railway stop measure is also important, which has, among other things, set up several parking lots at railway stops in order to better combine different modes of movement. This whole railway stop measure covers a total of EUR 12.7 million. Thank you! The written questions have thus been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U10	Questions for the Minister. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U11	Thank you for this presentation. Unfortunately, my conclusion is that there is no comprehensive strategy. In Denmark and Estonia, the level of cycling was equal before World War II. To date, the Danes have rushed out of the way with sensible and purposeful activities: 65% of the bike rides are made in the Danish capital. But for example: our neighbour Finland has adopted a national strategy for walking and cycling. They want 20% of all foot or bicycle movements to be made by 2020. What is Estonia's goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U12	As I mentioned, we have this document, the transport development plan, adopted for the years 2014 to 2020. The maturity is the same as in Finland in 2020 and was adopted in February 2014. There will be a target of 25% walking and cycling by 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U13	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! For more cyclists to come to the streets, the sense of security when people ride bicycles is very important. A few weeks ago, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we discussed the proposal made by the Estonian Yalgraters' Association, the Estonian City Riders' Association and also the Estonian Triathlon Union for the Traffic Act, so that the side distance between the car and the cyclist should be a minimum of one and a half metres. In my opinion, this is a very sensible and well-founded proposal. I was very surprised, in fact, by the position of the ministry official who said that this was not a problem, because only two accidents have occurred this year because of the lack of distance between sides. Here's what I'm saying. When riding a bicycle, a person does not feel secure just because he knows that accidents do not often happen for that reason. I don't think nine out of ten cyclists feel safe when a truck passes them half a meter away on the highway. There's no accident, but no one feels safe. What is your view on this? Could traffic law provide for a minimum lateral distance of one and a half metres when passing a cyclist?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U15	According to the law, you have to keep a safe side distance when you're done. This is true when a car passes by a car as well as when a car passes by a bicycle. Since there are different situations in traffic, a safe lateral separation is an undefined legal term. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs was also based on the view of the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities that there is not enough space on the roads of local governments to necessarily keep a side distance of one and a half metres. This would lead to passing in the opposite direction, which is very difficult to do in the city. The problem is precisely with smaller roads and narrow roads, where it may occur that a rider cannot be legally passed. If you take the width of the road and count the width of the car and the cyclist from there, a distance of one and a half feet [1.5 m] may not be enough to legally pass the road on narrower roads. So we have to be guided by the fact that sufficient space for passing is different at different speeds.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U16	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U17	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'd like to ride a lot more bikes than I've ever been able to do so, especially when I'm moving downtown Tallinn. The wheel strategy has not been implemented. In total, less than 2% of people travel by bicycle in Tallinn. In Stockholm, the share of cycling mobility has risen by 70% in ten years. Finland has the same figure of over 10%. You spoke of an appropriate target for the transport development plan and indicated 25% in your speech. Do you know what this percentage is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U18	Thank you for your question. I listened carefully to the introductory speech of the representative of the interviewers and noticed that Yoko Alender said a few words of appreciation about Tallinn's cycling strategy for the years 2018 Give them some time to put their strategy into practice. Certainly, the implementation of this wheel strategy will also be supported by the state. Now, on a more precise factual question, what is the share of walking and cycling today? That's the kind of thing the Statistical Office measures. And Statistics Estonia says that in 2017 the share of walking and cycling in Estonian people was 19.3%.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U19	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue on the issue of the lack of children's movement. Studies show that in the Netherlands, over 80% of children whose school is five kilometers away go to school on a bicycle. We have done the school reform, and in recent years we have spent a great deal of money on the renovation of schools, building new school buildings in the regions. My question is how much has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications worked with the Ministry of Education and Research on this issue so that these renovated schools or new school buildings can be safely cycled.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U21	Thank you. I believe that, at some level, when designing new schools, you are probably referring to state secondary schools, also designed to meet modern expectations. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has worked quite well with local governments through the Road Administration to ensure that all children can reach school from home, regardless of how far they are from their nearest school. Synergies between the school bus network and the county public transport have been sought for this purpose, and this synergy has been improving from year to year. It should also be borne in mind that there are quite several months in Estonia, when no child can ride a bicycle in good circumstances, it could be replaced by a Finnish sled. And for months like this, we still need to keep the countrymen running this school bus network.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U22	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U23	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! When we look at the municipalities and their approaches, we see that the integrity of the light traffic network is very different. In the State Reform Problem Committee, we had under discussion a cooperation project on awareness of spatial creation carried out by the State Chancellery. At least five MKM officials were involved in this work. What were the proposals made by MKM to the Expert Committee on Spatial Creation, how could the problems of the light traffic network as a whole be solved? I understand that the main issue is no longer that the municipality should be the only developer. Cooperation between the state and the municipality, local people should be very clearly defined.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U24	Thank you for your question. It's such a detailed question. MKM's proposals to the Expert Committee on Spatial Creation have been submitted in writing and I can also send you these proposals in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U25	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U26	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You say, "Governance of the city of Tallinn," you think, "Environmental Party." I was hit by a bus in Tallinn and not for the first time, and my protests simply brought taunts from the city administration and the bus company. I addressed the last letter to the mayor and asked him to answer in person. Enno Tamm answered. I also asked you to speak orally. Have you not yourself thought of having Enno Tammel answer for you or, on the contrary, of telling your party that they would be a little bit more cyclist-friendly and polite to the citizens of the city, even if they were members of the council?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U27	Thank you for your question. As you can see, when I'm asked something, I'm always on my own. But now more seriously, if there's an accident, you don't have to write to the mayor. The police have to deal with this traffic accident where the rider is injured. [[A voice from the hall.]] Wasn't there an accident? Uh, I didn't exactly understand the question that if there was no accident, what was it? I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U28	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U29	Thank you. Dear Minister, The bicycle, like the Finnish sled, is a means of mobility that is usefully connected to the utility. This is a utility squared: the social need to deal with health promotion can be covered and it is beneficial for health. The question is how much we see all this at national level, or how much our ministries are working together to achieve a common goal. Educational institutions, entrepreneurs, as well as the Ministry of Culture, should be involved in order to meet the objectives of promoting mobility. Do we have any kind of joint interministerial working group to solve this problem? Wheeled riders, Finnish sled movers, etc. should be supported by...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U30	Question, please! It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U31	... to increase such recreational activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U32	Thank you for your question. Indeed, such larger strategies, or also development plans, are not born from the best knowledge of the specialists of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, for example, the Transport Development Plan 2021 to 2030. All these documents shall go to all other relevant ministries for coordination. The Ministry of Education and Research has so far been one of the most active providers of feedback. So this cooperation has been good. And I agree that if we encourage the choice of active mode of movement as a child, this good lifestyle tends to remain human in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U33	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Minister Kadri Simson. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of Yoko Alender's heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U34	Good Chairman! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, who have listened to us! We have an overview of what the European Union has been trying to do to get the Estonians moving. We have seen that many bike routes have been built in beautiful green life in Estonia. However, we did not get an overview of what was actually happening in the urban area. About the capital, they said give it some time. I'm sure we will. But I am sticking to myself and I think that at national level we should not talk about cycling as just a small part of the transport development plan, but take the example of our neighbours. This is a separate issue in Finland and, since it is such an important health issue, a development plan has been drawn up specifically to promote walking and cycling. It would be interesting to ask the Minister if I could ask one more question, what was the percentage that has gone from investment to our living environment for walking on foot and cycling. We learned of the fact that one fifth of the movements are made by foot or bicycle. It disproves the story of the Estonian Express that has been here recently or also in the media, as if only 1.5% of people are healthy and able to ride a bicycle, that so few people are interested in it. In fact, the facts disprove it. These examples, which we heard both the minister and some of them here by the mouth of the questioners, show that Estonians want to ride a bicycle. Our kids want to ride a bicycle, and our grown-ups want to ride it. And I think that this debate in this Chamber also shows that it is a matter of national importance. Denmark has, again, studied it very accurately on the economic side. This is, let us be honest, one of the main reasons, alongside health, why so much investment has been made in promoting cycling in other countries at national level. The Danes have calculated that every euro invested will bring back eight. Finns have done similar calculations. This return naturally means, to a very large extent, savings in health costs. If a person were to ride a bike every day for half an hour or half an hour back from school, that would be a perfectly good result. I would also like to hear more about what my colleague Kersna was talking about. This development plan should certainly address the mobility of children and young people separately. The state supports the establishment of kindergartens and schools everywhere. It is possible to include in all these support measures the so-called criteria of whether the safety of cycling and walking is taken into account. I will give you a recent example of Viljandi. At the request of the local government, the surroundings of the schools were fixed in order to make it safe to move there. But I do not think we can leave this to chance and hope that all the local authorities can do it on their own. I still support the fact that we are actually doing this at national level. Sitting is our new smoking, as they say. You can afford a football stall. This means offering equal opportunities, but the role of the state is also to create an environment in which these healthy choices can be made comfortably. Let's be honest, it bothers you if your house doesn't have a bicycle to hold, if your school doesn't have a bicycle to store, if there's no place to keep it at your workplace, if your bike paths end in any place or if they're holed up, for example, if they're not cleaned in winter. We could record in this same national strategy that, as we automatically assume, we have a road cleared, we could have a bicycle road cleaned before. In this way, we would be more comfortable to make choices that are beneficial to our health and that are beneficial to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U35	There are no further requests to speak. Is there something the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U36	Free mike. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U37	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I want to explain to you the subject of education. One point on the subject of education, which is now very, very hot, is the transition to 100-potent Estonian-language education. But what needs to be done? First of all, everything that's not done and it's been let go like shit. First of all, we need to look up the linguists, the lecturers who in their time developed language learning methodologies, how to teach people how to know and speak the language. Once these people have been found, motivated, trained or sent outside Estonia to study, they have acquired these methodologies again, they should start training those teachers who will train students. I mean, the category of teachers, this connection has not been dealt with, it is left to chance. Money doesn't teach anyone, the building doesn't teach anyone ♪ the people who are inside it. The computer doesn't teach anyone either. I mean, if there's no teacher, there's no medium, there's no purpose, there's no motivation, there's no forwarder, there's no locomotive, there's no progress. As a result, academic staff need to be trained, and this academic staff is starting to train educators. Only when this is done can we begin to talk about the level of training that trainers have been trained for, and begin to distribute, either upper secondary school, primary school or early childhood education. How's that for a specialty? I'm a chemistry teacher. If I need to be trained as a chemist, for example, as a Russian school teacher, it will take time. Basically, in order for me to be able to give chemistry in Estonian to Russian children in Russian school, I must be able to explain chemistry to them in Russian, too, if they do not understand some things in Estonian. The example of Denmark is that there are two teachers in the class who switch between subjects: for half an hour another speaks another language, but if necessary they intervene. If there is a knot and the child does not understand a place, the teacher will intervene in another language. This means that the teachers who are in the class can speak both languages, be they English and Estonian, German and Estonian, French and Estonian or Russian and Estonian. Both teachers in the classroom must master both languages. If they don't, it'll collapse. Consequently, directing or giving money to language learning is an empty burning of money because it is not used for its purpose, for what results. That's where I conclude, as a human being, that no one wants the result. I mean, if the result had been desired, the whole of Estonia would speak in Estonian long ago in the language that we have called the national language. But since we don't want the result, we're gonna burn it, and we're gonna burn the big money. Where do we start? Training for trainers, i.e. intersect teacher training for students in either upper secondary school, primary school or early childhood education. Parents' training has also not been completed and not covered. Individual schools, so-called elite schools, are forced to train parents. These include the French lyceum, the Tallinn Art Gymnasium and the English College, where teachers train parents at night so that they can speak to children in the language required at school. I am not referring to a foreign language, I am referring to Estonian, mathematics or the language of history. A child must be able to rely on someone. If he doesn't have authority at home to rely on, then it's a mess because he doesn't have authority at all against anyone. Now, to sum up all this, there is no point in this propaganda talk that we are going from tomorrow to Estonian education, because we need to prepare the frame for at least three years. The psychoanalyst, Mr. Sigmund Freud, has said that sex drive and fear of death make everything move, but fear is a very bad counselor, and sex drive only starts at the end of puberty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-05_U38	I'll see you tomorrow. Sometimes I wonder why the manager has to sit here during a free microphone. If there's a free microphone, let the people go and say what they want. [[Wait, what did you say? Tell them what they want? Absolutely, you're right.]] Closure of the sitting at 3.40 p.m.
