ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the eighth working week of the VII plenary session. Now is the best time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. The best time is over. Incoming check, please! 54 MPs participate in the meeting, 47 are absent. In reality, these figures are slightly different because some were late to press the key.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Our colleagues in the Moldovan Parliament will start each plenary session by singing the anthem. We in the Riigikogu devote today's working day to speaking about the anthem. Draft Act 577 on the Anthem of the Republic of Estonia initiated by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia awaits proceedings. This is a first reading. Mart Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, will be a waitress for the Riigikogu speaker!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U3	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft that is now coming to the introduction and which we are going to discuss here has already led to quite a wide-ranging discussion in society. In fact, it can be said that the reason for this draft was the discussion that broke out in our society at the turn of the year, when it turned out that the anthem was not played after the President's speech in the history of the re-independence Republic of Estonia. It caused a great deal of resonance and resentment in society. The result was that the members of our group, but not just members of our group, the sharp pencils in general discovered that the national symbols of Estonia are the only anthem that is not covered by the law, not provided for in the law. So the Republic of Estonia does not even have a formal anthem. As a result, our group decided to submit a draft anthem law to the Riigikogu so that it would be clear: the anthem of the Republic of Estonia is a song with the words of Friedrich Pacius and Johann Voldemar Jannsen, which, in the 90s of the 19th century, has traditionally achieved the status of an anthem. For example, in 1896 the newspaper Postimees called it the national anthem of Estonia for the first time, or rather, the anthem of the Estonian people. When the Republic of Estonia was proclaimed from the balcony of Endla Theatre in my home town Pärnu a hundred years ago, the people sang the same song of Paciuse-Jannsen as the anthem of the newly declared Republic of Estonia with the exposed head and frost.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U4	Honourable waitress! (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good parliamentary practice indicates that there is no attempt to overspeak the speaker. If you really need it, you'd rather talk down. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U5	Thank you. I'd be happy to answer all your questions. I understand that you are currently actively discussing what to ask me and that there are people who want to ask spiteful questions, just as they have already been presented through the press and in other ways. I'm ready to answer those questions. Even the most spiteful questions will receive an adequate response and, if necessary, a response. So be good, ladies and gentlemen, and let me finish my introduction, and then we will go to the questions and answers. This hymn law itself is very short. I must regret that these five paragraphs have already been found, I would say, legally completely childish and malicious interpretation. I hope that there will be no such interpretation in this Chamber today. In short, for all those who have bothered and felt the need to delve into this draft, the text has been available. I hope all the ambassadors are familiar with it. And I've done my part of the introduction. So much more that when some here are talking about over-regulation, I am sorry, but in the European Union there are 21 countries that have dealt with such over-regulation, according to me. By the way, when we drafted the bill, we took the example of the national anthem laws of several countries. The countries such as Spain and our immediate southern neighbour, Latvia, where these laws are quite detailed, set an example. If anyone wants to say that this is over-regulation, then perhaps these laws are also over-regulated, but in our opinion they are very clearly laying down the procedure for using the anthem. In our national symbols, the flag and the coat of arms have been enshrined and protected by law. As I said at the beginning, the anthem is the only thing missing. If you look in history, it turns out that the topic of the anthem was also acutely raised in the Constitutional Assembly. Among other things, our colleague, who is not currently in the Chamber and who is considered one of the authors of the Constitution, which he is undoubtedly, was quite violently opposed to writing an anthem into the Constitution. What were the motives, I don't know. Too bad he's not here, he can't explain it. But there was an argument on this issue already then, and now we have brought this dispute to today. I will finish by saying so much: respectable people, each country is largely made up of traditions. And if somebody wants to say that the anthem is in the way of time, it needs to be made ribbed, there's some words that need to be replaced, let's think about it a little bit. Do we also replace our crest? This is also from the dark Middle Ages? Some stylized leopards, sometimes called lions, are feudal symbols that should and should not fit into the enlightened 21st century. Let's change it! Let's rip it off! Let's get underfoot! The time of some kind of eagles, bears and lions on the coats should be long gone in enlightened Europe. What are we going to do with our flag, which we have highlighted as a bold act of the ECS, the young patriots? Let us replace the European Union's flag and take down these national symbols! I would even say this: the attack against our national symbols and our nationalism has already gone so far as to put our language at risk because of the left-wing liberals. If Kadriorg calls for our children to be turned into two and three languages from kindergarten onwards, it is the most direct, immediate and vile attack against the Estonian language. Why do we need our country? For the Estonian people to have their own national home. Europe may be our dormitory, but in the dormitory we also want our home, our room, so we have an Estonian nation state with our symbols. Please don't trample them under your feet! I would say this: everyone who is voting against this draft today shows that they are in favour of the dismantling of nationhood. It's a very simple watercourse. The left ones are already screaming. Scream, I don't give a shit. Now, I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U6	That's right. But when it's very clear to someone, it usually raises a lot of questions. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U7	Thank you. Mr. Helme, you have a fantastic ability to fight ghosts that no one else can see. To be honest, I have not met any serious forces in this hall or in Estonian society who would attack the Estonian anthem or our symbols and do so with such flaming force as you just did to us. The people of the Reform Party respect the anthem. We have no doubts about the way it should be and its words, nor have we ever seen anyone view the anthem as unrespecting. You indicated that one of the motives was that ETV did not allow an anthem at New Year's Eve, but I do not see how this bill would force anyone to play the anthem. Or how could you prevent someone from discussing an anthem in a free and democratic country where freedom of expression is protected by the Constitution, even if there is not much interest in it in the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U8	I would say that the reactions have been acute, the interest is very high. If you say that no one is attacking it, then the President attacked the ERR, attacked the City Government of Tallinn, attacked the 'Estonian Republic 100' task force, when they decided unanimously I cannot say how unitedly that the anthem will not be played. And as I have already said in my introductory speech, the Republic of Estonia has no official anthem today. We have actually achieved that the fact that we do not have a formal anthem has reached society's consciousness. We want the anthem to be fixed by law as an official symbol of the Republic of Estonia very simple! And if you say I fight ghosts, no, I don't fight ghosts. But I can see it, as we heard from this boo here, how the left-wing liberals are fighting against nationhood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U9	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U10	Thank you, good waitress. As a historian, you spoke very nicely about, among other things, the traditions and events associated with the anthem. But one important practice associated with the anthem has also been that it arose and has been ruled out, as an anthem of the people it came from among the people and was deliberately left unwritten in the law. What about the custom? Doesn't it bother you that something goes missing in the popularity of this thing, if not in nationality, when you write the anthem into law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U11	No, it doesn't. I would say that the Estonian flag was also born as a result of the practice. It wasn't a national flag or a national symbol. It was a national symbol, which has now been established by law. So what do we do? Shall we abolish this law and create a common practice? The whole of Estonia and the people will then be operating only on the basis of the custom, I guess that is not the case. The country is more than usual. Varieties change, generations change, and fashion changes. As we already hear, we do not need to have a motherland and a native tongue. It's a very ugly story that we have a motherland and a native language. Hando Runnel poemed beautifully during the Soviet era: 'Since Mother still lives, the native language continues'. But now we're throwing it in the trash because we want to be ribbed. After all, it has been said from this remote control that sex is a social construction. So I guess fixing a national symbol in law doesn't change traditions or customs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U12	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U13	Good waitress! My question comes from life itself. I have always been a teacher and a teacher, and Jehovah's Witnesses are still among my students. There hasn't been a lot of them, but their custom is that they don't get up during the anthem. Suppose this bill has become a law, it's a graduation act, but I've got a student sitting. What advice do you give me: How am I supposed to act as a class manager?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U14	It is another matter of spite that no one can get up from the wheelchair or get up when playing the cello. Don't look for such exceptions! I went to a series of schools on the anniversary of the Republic and gave speeches at the shows. The anthem was also sung there. And I'd say that to see it, when the students were wearing an anthem in schools with one voice and tears in their eyes, I also had a tear in my eye. It's a question of courtesy. Yes, we have all sorts of strange sects, including all sorts of Satanist sects who may think they have to make casualties and all that. But I don't think we can operate here with such exceptions, we're still operating on the entire core of society. Jehovah's Witnesses also have their own choices: For example, they may leave the room or simply stand up against the rest of them. There's a choice here. A well-groomed and polite person has a choice that simple. That's why the train doesn't stop. If you throw a stick on a train path, the train won't stop: the train will just run over that stick.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U15	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U16	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I think the anthem has been our practice for a long time. And the anthem is for all people, not for making choices that someone must go out of the room or feel uncomfortable. I have a very big question about Article 4 of the anthem bill, which requires standing up during the anthem and exposing the head. We are talking about making exceptions here in general, but in Estonian society, people cannot talk about exceptions or those who are outside the framework. We cannot only talk about those people for whom we understand that they have reduced mobility or mental impairments or why they cannot meet these standards. Why do they therefore have to be condemned by society?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U17	I am absolutely convinced that no one will condemn a person in a wheelchair if he does not stand up during the anthem. Whoever does this is an abnormal person. No normal person condemns a person in a wheelchair if he does not stand up while singing the anthem. It is so simple, and there is really nothing to discuss here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U18	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U19	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! I am listening to the reasons that have been sought to oppose this bill, and I still fully agree that legitimisation of the anthem is not a legal issue; it is a matter of choice of value. And it is quite clear that all those who oppose legitimization of the anthem have also positioned themselves against the Estonians. I'm asking about these nose peckings about emergency situations. For example, how often does a teacher react by calling the police when a student smokes around the corner? I don't know if they're gonna do that. And now the question about the bill: do you think the solution proposed by the coalition that the anthem is mentioned between two decimals in the flag law is satisfactory?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U20	Of course, it is not satisfactory. But look, honeys, we've still won because we've put the anthem bill on the agenda. If this bill is not adopted in its entirety ♪ we promise that in the next Riigikogu we will accept it anyway, the flag law states that the story of Paciuse-Jannsen is our anthem. We still have a victory. The IRLs tried to put a hat on us here, thought they were tricking us, but we weren't tricking them. The Republic of Estonia has received a legally confirmed anthem, which is because you may reject this draft as a whole today. So on your back!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U21	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U22	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! To begin with, it is a pity that you consider the Estonian people so inferior that they cannot walk around politely with their own symbols, wishing to impose it on them. But I have a problem as a parent. I have taught my three older children the words of the anthem beautifully, and with the smallest of them, this process is still halfway through. Am I really going to get her trained in the anthem, or is this learning process going to have to take place only on super-festivities? Do you not think that there is a risk that Estonian children will soon not be able to sing the anthem, because the anthem will only have to sing on very festive occasions in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U23	It doesn't say that, read the bill carefully. 'Everyone has the right to use the anthem of the Republic of Estonia on anniversaries, national ceremonies and other festive events, following good practice. " You can also sing the anthem on your birthday if you find it a festive occasion. After all, you adhere to good practice, and you can sing the anthem familyally, no one will punish you for it. By the way, speaking of punishment, in France, you can receive a fine of EUR 7500 for violating the law on an anthem or go to prison for half a year. France is, of course, the extension of Putin's Russia's arm, as we all know, and a country that is 'profascist'. But as for the fact that I humiliate the Estonian people, on the contrary! I look with concern how the Estonian national elite stands with their backs towards their people. Yesterday we had a demonstration here in front of the Riigikogu in support of the popular initiative. I didn't see anyone else there in general. I saw free partyers and our partymen, but I didn't see the rest. I asked one of the middle parties how you felt about it. 'So and so, things must be under control. ' Look who's controlling something now and who's taking control of who! Things have to be under control, including the anthem. Things have to be under control, friends, this is your mentality. I am worried that the Estonian national elite does not want to be the Estonian national elite, but wants to be some sort of juniper euro elite. It's our national tragedy that we still wanted to be German as soon as our nose had been raised a bit higher for the tare soil. I don't want to be German. I want to be Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U24	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I certainly don't have a spiteful or picky question. My question is motivated by the fact that I would like to discuss this draft comprehensively. The annex to this draft contains the title, way and words of a fixed anthem. In fact, there is also a fixed way into a harmonious plan. The harmonic plan should not, and could not, be changed, and it must be fixed in the same way as the title, the way and the words. What about the set? In this annex, the anthem is shown in the B-Dur. In ceremonies and other festive cases, is the anthem always required to perform in the B-Dour, as in the annex to your draft, or can it be done in another major set?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U26	I understand that we have now received a speech from a well-known organ artist. If I am not mistaken, perhaps my groupmates will correct me, then this is a specific display taken from the homepage of the State Chancellery. So on this issue, you have to turn to the State Chancellery and ask why they have placed a B-dour there. I say from my experience here, this issue of custom has already repeatedly come up on the agenda, that the people are still singing as someone is giving their tone. In the case of a small choir, such as a school choir, it's the choir leader who sings with a pitchfork sometimes and then sings like that. I've also sung the anthem like this, because it's really been hard for me to sing it because the sound hasn't been right for me. The voice material of people is different: who is the bass, who is the tenor, who is the soprano and who is the bottom. Some get low, some get high. As you can see, we have not been so over-regulating this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U27	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The Estonian anthem is in no danger and there is a general view that it does not need to be regulated. There is also the same view, for example, of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, who thinks that, if at all, it could only be regulated as a complement to the flag law. Do you think the Chancellor of Justice's office is wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U28	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U29	You see, honourable Riigikogu, the Chancellor of Justice understands the law on the basis of the laws we have adopted. The Chancellor of Justice won't give us the height with the chamber tone we have to sing with. So the Chancellor of Justice's opinion may or may not count on it. He may express his opinion, of course, but that's not what we're going to sing for. Just as the childish analyses of some lawyers here are not the basis for what we have to decide. We are the Riigikogu! We are the highest force in this republic after the people, and that is exactly how it must be handled.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U30	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U31	Thank you. Good waitress, you have talked at length about the attack on Estonian symbols, and this is probably also the reason for this bill. I begin by saying that this room, where we are now, is actually one of the symbols of the Republic of Estonia, which is why I call for a certain degree of respect. We do not label people as abnormal, keep them on the phone, or say that Jehovah's Witnesses are like Satanists who eat people, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U32	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U33	But here's my question. Please specify who, where and how the anthem has attacked! You made it look like a reason. I understand you mentioned the President, the ERR and the City Government of Tallinn, but let's be more specific! Did you see it as an attack when the president's office made a good decision to refrain from singing the anthem against the background of the drink glasses? Have they attacked it somewhere else? And how have the others attacked the anthem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U34	Yeah, I see a really big problem when somebody's talking about some booze glasses here, and also in the President's statement, when the discussion has already broken out, I did sing an anthem right there in Liberty Square. Look, presidents don't sing anthem like drunks around the corner. Just don't sing! The President is an institution, he sings anthem in front of the people and with the people. And believe me, no champagne glass would have been crushed if the anthem had been sung together. We can assure you that because on our torch tournament, 5,000 people sang the white anthem of torches without any choir, without any music coming from the tape. 5,000 people sang anthem! It's possible. But when it comes to attack, it's not just the anthem that's under attack. Under attack, our national self-consciousness is under attack. Our entire nationhood is under attack. It's being demolished by terrorist methods. How do terrorists deliver? They know very well that setting off some kind of bomb somewhere is not going to overthrow governments, do not liquidate the democratic regime, etc. But they do it here today, tomorrow there, the day after tomorrow in the third place, chewing the hole bigger and bigger like rats. We're seeing it now. You asked who to protect the anthem from. But for the left-wing liberals who want to make the anthem ribbed, among other things! We need to protect the anthem from those who say it's an outdated melody we're going to replace. We also had a year-pair ago discussion of our flag. I think it was Kaarel Tarand who brought this discussion up. Let's replace the flag: take the crusade as it is in the Nordic countries! Then we'll be Nordic, too, and they'll accept us more. It's also an attack against our national symbolism. It's an attack on our nationhood, our traditions. If anyone wants to tell me that there is no such attack, it is very often in this Chamber. Among other things, the chairman of your party has repeatedly attacked the national government he has called the 19th-century dystopian. Thank you, I'm a representative of the 19th century dystopia! I'm proud of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U35	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I'm gonna ask you for your personal judgment as a very experienced and excited person. I am listening to these questions, which give examples of schoolchildren and Jehovah's Witnesses, does it offend anyone if they cannot sing the anthem, according to their personal convictions? I'm listening here to these complaints that you can't say 'abnormal' or 'normal'. I'm getting a little confused about that. Is it a greater form of collective lability, played stupidity, or do people really believe sincerely and see something that is not there in the law of the anthem? After all, 21 European countries, including Spain and France, have legalised the anthem, not to mention the United States on the other side of the puddle. What are we dealing with here? What might be the reason for this to be apparent or real for people, which could be even worse? just malicious stupidity? Where does it come from and where does it lead?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U37	This leads to the consolidation of the euro-province, which is the goal of the eradication of the national state. After all, all these Junckers and Rompuy have said that nationalism is the greatest enemy. Consequently, nationalism must be fought, and my sense of self-esteem as an Estonian, who I am proud of having our own country, is a hostile act against Europe. I can't agree with anything like this, but here's where the attack comes from, that's where it all comes from. It is the same terrorist tactic that we chew by pieces: we chew the anthem, we chew the flag, we chew the Estonian language and then we chew something else. That's how we chew slowly. You see, respectable people, you may not sense, as representatives of a small nation, that large units, large nations, large countries have a lot of time. Russia can wait a hundred years until the moment comes that it will have its empire back again. You see, in Crimea he took away was waiting 25 years and took away. He waits 50 years, and when the right moment comes, he takes something away again. Large countries have time, they have a reserve of strength. It's not in vain to say a proverb that as long as the fat gets thin, the skinny one is already dead. We don't have time. We're still building our country. It's a very difficult job, sometimes too much work. And we're wasting time on the fact that we have to attach the most basic things, such as national symbolism, including the anthem. Why are we wasting time on this? Why couldn't this bill have come to this Chamber and someone patriotically suggested that we adopt it now, let's not send it to the Commission at all or anywhere, let's vote in favour right now? Why do we have to have this ridiculous discussion here? The excuses we've been looking for, the mockery questions why? The same song was sung in tears during the singing revolution, because it was then forbidden. Now it is not necessary to over-regulate, stick where the sun does not shine.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U38	Jüri Jaanson, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U39	Honourable waitress! With my previous question, I asked you for an opinion on people with disabilities and others outside the framework. You've taken the course for the wheelchair people. I would point out that there are a large number of people who are out of the ordinary frame of society, for example, with mental disabilities or otherwise, and who do not understand why they do not follow the same bill or good practice. I understand these people are national enemies in your eyes. In fact, I would like to ask you, however, that you serve this story here, putting an anthem into law, as a victory for your party. You said Jannsen's anthem was already enshrined in the law. My question is: but why is this bill even needed when you have already won, as you said?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U40	There's no final victory yet. But the winner is that the flag law now wants to record the anthem. And if it is stated in the flag law, it is fixed in the legislative act as the fact that it is the Estonian anthem. We do not now officially have an Estonian anthem. So picking up an egg on this side is, of course, in case it is rejected. If our bill isn't rejected, we're gonna win a full victory, we're gonna get a whole egg. As far as people with disabilities are concerned, I say that this is also a completely sought-after issue. No one will condemn or condemn a person who clearly has a disability of some kind and cannot fulfill the customs of the custom. Nobody's gonna take themselves out on people like that, taunting them, not guilty at all. I'm asking you to understand this! For example, when we talk about the law of the anthem in the United States, there is such a custom that the head cover is taken away, in addition to everything else they put their hands on their hearts and sing as they stand, and the military give glory. For some reason, I do not think that there are people in the United States who are disabled who cannot do the things prescribed by law or do the things they do. There are definitely people with disabilities there, but I have not yet heard that they are not creating such problems, nor are we.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U41	Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U42	Actually, you didn't answer Jüri Jaanson's question. I understand that you do not know that there are people in our society with mental impairments, where no one seems to understand that there is something wrong with them. That's one thing. If you go from here to here: what is clear to every normal Estonian person needs to be regulated in the case of EKRE. Are you making this regulation for the EKRE? Are there any questions or shortcomings here for your partymates and your supporters? Don't they understand how to act when singing anthem: how to sing it, etc.? As far as attackers and terrorists are concerned, you use such expressions all the time, it is characteristic of people with certain mental disorders that they fear that someone will attack them or come from terrorists.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U43	Thank you. On the contrary, we're protecting this anthem from people like you. We do not do this because the members of our party do not understand what the Estonian anthem is very well understood. Our congressionals always start singing a very powerful anthem, and we have no problem with it. We're protecting this anthem from liberals like you. I think you have some kind of psychological or psychic shift because you pathologically hate the nation state and nations. You want Europe to blend into some sort of uniform mass, with no nations or nation states, and with only pan-European symbols, not national symbols. So if you're accusing us of some kind of insanity, I'm sorry, but the ball bounced back.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U44	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U45	Thank you, good waitress. It is very disrespectful to regard the rest of Parliament as non-national simply because they do not support one of your drafts. You have done this many times today, i.e. blamed everyone else. Please don't! But there's another place of respect that I want to draw attention to, it's disabled people. You have reduced it to the subject of wheelchair, but there are actually many more people who cannot stand up, even though they are not in a wheelchair. And there are those who just can't hear. What would you say about that from the heart? These people may feel very bad about themselves: they stand out, and they are thought to be disrespectful when they do not respond to sounds. Now say something respectful about that feeling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U46	I respectfully say this, respectable people who are once again pointing a finger at me as an abnormal specimen, that my mother was blind for five years, and I know very well what a disabled person means. My mother-in-law was sick for 20 years, in multiple sclerosis, and for the last three years, completely immobilized in bed. I know very well what all this means. I know very well that if the anthem had been played, my mother-in-law wouldn't have gotten up, and it would have been perfectly understandable to a person just couldn't have. If a person doesn't hear, but he sees that everyone around is getting up, then he just gets up. He's doing what everyone else is doing and trying to figure out what this is all about. And he probably has a friend, a comrade, or a relative next to him who tells him what it is and who tells him in any way: Writes on paper if it is not possible. So it's another one of those things we've been looking for. I see that there are more and more no other arguments, more and more people are going to think that there are people with disabilities who can't do anything. Of course they are. But if someone tries to say that I don't understand what a disability is, I know it very well. I've been helping people with disabilities for years, and I've been nursing, and I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U47	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U48	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! As has been said here, the anthem is indeed one of our national symbols. He is a national symbol whether or not he is registered in the law. And this has been so for years today we can say that for almost a hundred years now. But what I'm asking is that I don't share your attitude, your politics, and sometimes it gets ugly. Is that good practice? And how does it contribute to valuing a national and national symbol that is personal in all our minds, hearts and souls, and in many ways personal in nature?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U49	If this is a practice, if it is not a problem and if it is in everyone's heart, then approve this bill. There's no problem at all! As far as my smugness is concerned, I apologise for being so powerful, but the totally spiteful and pointless questions of your many colleagues simply require strong answers. There's nothing you can do, just accept that I'm that person.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U50	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U51	Thank you. I would point out that if he is a national symbol, but somewhere in national law does not state what that symbol is, then the question arises as to whether he is a national symbol. That's what we're doing. This draft is concerned with the national symbol being also mentioned nationally. Unfortunately, Yoko Alender has already left. He asked how we could make this law force people to sing an anthem up or down, one way or another. I will read this bill, it is short and understandable to even the simplest member of the Riigikogu and will not read out where the compulsion is. I read that everyone has the right to use the anthem if they do so respectfully, and it also states that national ceremonies have an obligation to use it. I do not think that we have any national ceremonies for people with disabilities, nor do we have a mass presence there. But I don't see the coercion. Where's the coercion over there? Can You Answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U52	No, I don't see any coercion here. Maybe somebody's gonna count the coercion of being held accountable. The responsibility must also be given, for example, in the case of flag blasphemy. Why isn't that a problem? And those who have ripped off the Estonian flag during the holidays have also been held accountable. I don't see any coercion here. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you here are considerably older and more experienced Members than I, you know very well that after the first reading it is possible to propose improvements and additions to the draft law. If you have any problems, if any sections of this short draft do not satisfy you, if you want to supplement it, please! This is a parliamentary procedure. There is no need to look here for any spiteful excuses to taunt the bill, as well as its defender, and to call him pro-active.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U53	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! With your speech, you have, in fact, put me and some of my colleagues in a rather difficult situation. You said sentences in your speech that you might agree with. But the indication that it is automatically a traitor or an anti-Estonia who is voting against this bill is certainly a part of hoarding self-ego. I cannot agree with this in any way, despite the fact that we can say anything we want as free ambassadors in Parliament. If I recall even the deep Soviet times, if there was no law, and if even it was forbidden to sing 'My Fatherland is my love', then yet everyone sang it. But in the case of the anthem, it is a question of whether a practice and a hearty act are not thousands of times stronger than the lines written in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U55	I don't remember 'My Fatherland is my love' being forbidden. I think it was sung at all the singing parties, and I wouldn't say it was sung outside a confirmed repertoire. We all know how it was in Soviet times: Caesar had to have what part of Caesar and God, what part of God. Perhaps some Soviet songs were sung, and then there were some national songs in the sense of balancing, including 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy'. Once again, if it lives in your heart so much, what is the question? Support this bill. But we can see that it doesn't live in everyone's heart. We can see that there are activists who want to change the historical and very warm words of this beautiful song and who say that the anthem should be replaced at all. We want to protect the national song that lives in our hearts, which we call the anthem, from such activism. If it lives in your heart, support our bill! This is the easiest way to protect the anthem, the easiest way to show that it lives in your heart. I don't see any contradiction here. I admit I haven't held any silk gloves in my hand when I'm literally being bullied. But why should I? If Members are allowed to spite petty ones, I am allowed to beat them in the face. How the village... and those other words.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U56	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U57	Thank you, good waitress. In the opinion of lawyers, the problem with this anthem law is also that it creates the need to impose sanctions. This gives the police additional work, as there are very many vague situations where it is not possible to determine precisely whether, for example, this is an anthem. How do you think the police should behave in the new situation: does they need special training and additional resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U58	You see, the police need an additional resource anyway, there is no doubt about that. But I see absolutely no question here, it is once again in the face of what has been sought. I'd say to Carri Ginter, I'd know him personally if I could see him, that it's not good to pay back the school money, because that's not the kind of analysis I need to submit. There's such a search for arguments. It's like looking for arguments in a logic course that there's no need for any additional resource. Does the police now require additional resources to respond to the blasphemy of the Estonian flag, which is written into the law? I don't see that it requires any additional resources. The police are doing their usual patrol duty, and if he gets caught in anything, or if he gets a report, he'll react. We know the police often don't react, but that's another matter. So I don't see the need for any extra resources here. The police need additional resources, yes, but this particular draft does not bring any additional needs or duties to the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U59	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U60	Thank you. Good waitress! On the contrary, I believe in our statehood and our people. I know that our statehood is strong and support for our anthem is, contrary to what you have said, absolutely overwhelming. That is why I see no reason to engage in such substitution activities. Let's face it, this is purely a substitute. But I want to ask you a question inspired by one of your answers, in which you actually questioned the statehood of another country. In fact, your quote was that Russia has time to wait to get its empires back. See, he waited 25 years and took the Crimea away. Am I right now to understand that your position as Chairman of the EKRE is that Crimea is historically and legally part of Russia? Just in case, I'm marking that our party's position is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U61	Oh, yeah, what do I say to that? No, that is not my position or that of our party. I lectured at the university for many years, including on the issue of the Crimean and Black Sea fleet. I could speak to you spontaneously for about an hour and a half now about the Black Sea fleet and the Crimean issue, the history of Crimea, etc., but unfortunately this is not possible. The crime is annexed. Please do not start with the reproaches you have been looking for or any such subjects on the table again! As for whether I believe in our people, of course I do! I believe much more than your party. Do I believe in the Estonian state? Of course I do! Otherwise, I wouldn't be in politics at all, I would have gone to warm land a long time ago, because I don't like our climate. Do I believe our anthem? Of course I do! But I also see left-wing activists attacking the anthem. We have already talked about this repeatedly and repeatedly today. They attack the anthem: they want to change its words, they want to replace it, they refuse to play it on festive occasions. That is why we want Parliament to adopt this draft very simple. There's no substitution activity here. On the contrary, it is a very clear legislative initiative for any attack against the anthem to end.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U62	Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is very sympathetic that you are concerned about the importance of the Estonian anthem. That's our symbol. But when you prepared this bill, did you also think that you would make a bill where you would tie together all our insignia, from the flag, the crest and the anthem, so that they would be treated in the same way as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U64	Thank you for your question. I didn't mean it because there are laws for the flag and the coat of arms, but there aren't laws for the anthem. And since we found such a gap in our laws, we focused only on the anthem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U65	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U66	Thank you. We have heard a number of arguments, literally taken from the ceiling, here today and in the past through the press, as if people with physical and mental disabilities were to be punished, repressed by those who simply do not stand up or take their hat off. At the same time, it seems to me that it is simply the completely basic ignorance and stupidity of these opponents, because there is a very large difference between people with disabilities and incompetence that I am not talking about at all, who do not stand up or who dishonor the anthem. There is a difference between disrespect and reproach. The execution is still banned. Why don't you tell people the difference between taunting and disrespecting the anthem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U67	Our anthem does not respect quite a significant part of the Estonian population. We can also see it on New Year's Eve if some part of the population celebrates the arrival of the new year in Moscow time. I don't think these people care much about our national anthem either. This is an example of disrespect. What is blasphemy? Doing this is when the anthem is sung with obscene words or when the anthem is performed, for example at a festive ceremony, some people grin and make unbecoming movements. It's all blasphemy. We know very well what blasphemy is. I'll come back to the disabled once again. Look, I can now give an answer to this question in this context as well. If people do not inadvertently do what is stated in the bill, i.e. they do not stand up and take their hat off, it is understandable. They don't inadvertently follow this good practice because they just don't understand it, they may be a little stupid. They're not gonna do it on purpose. If someone deliberately taunts the anthem, it's a disgrace. For example, as American football players demonstrate. Instead of doing what the rule requires to do in the case of anthem to sing along, with their hands on their hearts, hats or football helmets taken off their heads, they kneel and show their reluctance and contempt for this racist anthem, as they say there in America. It's an act of intent. I don't know if there's a football player on lockdown, but it's clearly a deliberate disgrace to the anthem, in this case, in the American context. If we had something like this, too, that someone would do some rude things at the time of the anthem, it would be a disgrace to the anthem. The difference is very clear here. And people with disabilities have nothing to do with it: they don't taunt the anthem, they just don't understand it or they're not able to do anything. This is a very, very important difference. If sane ambassadors don't understand it, they'll taunt the anthem themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U68	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm a little concerned with the subject that you are here repeatedly, and the questioners have also said that those who oppose this bill are against the Estonians. You've monopolised the Estonian. I am not against the Estonians in any way, but I am against overregulation and that is why I do not like this draft a bit. I'm gonna take care of something. Here came the theme 'My Fatherland is my love'. I think 'My Fatherland is my love' is an easy way of singing 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy'. It's a copy: if you couldn't sing the real anthem during the occupied time, it was sung. And if Pacius were alive, he would have sued for the Ernesaks plagiarism. My question, however, is about your claim that the anthem was attacked by the fact that it was not sung on New Year's Eve. But this bill absolutely doesn't concern or solve this issue. At the same time, you say that reproach must be punished, even though it is already punishable. So what is the real purpose of this bill? I understand it's nice for you to be here for an hour and talk about it, but the content of the bill doesn't address the problem of the New Year's Eve not playing the anthem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U70	Valdo, I'm sorry, but I don't think you've been in the hall all along. The draft is very clear that our anthem is not fixed as an anthem in Estonian law. That is, above all, the point of this draft. In addition, it determines which cases the anthem should necessarily be used: these are national dates and other festive events. It's pretty well written in this bill. The draft also confirms that good practice must be followed when presenting the anthem. Good practice means that men take off their hats, just like they take off their hats at funerals. I don't mean to say that the anthem is like a funeral song. Taking off your hat is a tribute to your homeland and your anthem, just as taking off your hat is a tribute to the deceased. It's all right here. As for the song 'My Fatherland is my love', you're well-informed, by the way. It is true that Gustav Ernesaks had at least compiled this original version at the Moscow embassy, where he was once in a slightly elevated mood, sat behind the piano and started playing our real anthem. Of course, there was a certain panic that he said we were going to do differently and put the harmony essentially backwards. You're well informed about that. And that's why they're both so good and festive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U71	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U72	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is obviously neither pointless nor spiteful; I would like some clarification on this draft law. Do not think that we do not carry to the Estonian state in our hearts and souls - we are proud of the Estonian state! Just as many are proud that we have such a small piece of land as Setomaa and Setos with their flag, language and anthem. And it is not at all random that, at the anniversary of this bill, at national ceremonies and other festive events, the flagstone is drawn not by the Estonian flag, but by the Setomaa flag, and not by the Estonian anthem, but by the Setomaa anthem. It's in people's souls, it's in people's hearts. Now, if you look at your bill, is it good practice, or is this tradition going against the bill and could be used in the so-called Penal Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U73	It's a question of your inner sense. If for you the identity of Setu is primary and more important than the identity of Estonia and the state in which you are still inside with your Setomaa, this is the question of your choice. Of course, no one's gonna put you up against the wall for that. My personal opinion is that we should first draw the flag of the Republic of Estonia and sing the anthem of the Republic of Estonia and then draw the flag of Setomaa and sing the anthem of Setomaa. In principle, we see that there is a great deal of parallel use of the flag and everywhere. Fortunately, the parliament of our Republic in Europe is one of the few or only in which there is no European Union flag alongside the Estonian flag. I am very pleased about this, which shows that we have at least some sense of sovereignty preserved. But we have a lot of places where NATO, Estonia and the European Union flag are used in parallel. There are other flags in front of the hotels. So there's nothing criminal or bad about it. This is a question of your inner sense, and that is exactly what I said in answering one question: if a family thinks someone's birthday is such a festive occasion that they start singing the anthem, then it is a question of their inner sense. I don't start singing my birthday anthem, but it's possible. If you consider the celebration of your Setomaa anniversary to be prevalently important, then I think you do not necessarily have to operate there with the symbols of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U74	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable questioner! To clarify the previous question, I meant, first and foremost, that there was a feeling with this maestro Gustav Ernesaksa song. Even if someone had said that this song could not be performed, it was certainly a desire to perform this song, no matter how it was composed. But aren't you guys gonna talk a little back? The reaction of the people to this conflict, which began as if at the end of the year at ETV, was precisely that everyone was used to hearing the anthem there, but then it wasn't. What could and could be a better defense than the feeling we have inside us? Let us imagine for a moment that you and I are neither here in the perspective, and there are people in this very Chamber who do not have that feeling, but it is incorporated into the law. Describe the outcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U76	The result is what is being pursued so that we have a multicultural society. When people who are prevalently sitting in this hall are predominantly called Estonians, but who are not Estonians in terms of their roots, traditions or sense of conscience, but who, in terms of citizenship, have done so and who have also proved to be elected here on the basis of citizenship, this is the feeling. We want it not to be that way. Therefore, we are fighting for Estonia to be the national home of Estonians, for Estonians to be the ones who decide on Estonia's affairs, and for others to be good guests, good integrators, whatever words we use to follow our customs and slowly take over our feelings. This is the fight we have to fight. And one of the components of this fight is the same anthem bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U77	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U78	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have one more point to clarify, and I'm going to have a little argument with you. I asked you earlier about the fact that this bill doesn't really regulate the situation that happened on New Year's Eve. You said it would, because now, according to this bill, we should start playing the anthem on New Year's Eve. But it doesn't come: your bill says that everyone can use an anthem in festive cases, etc., but doesn't have to. I think you yourself realized at some point that it is impossible to regulate in detail in the law such things as when you have to play the anthem. In fact, it's just as impossible to regulate the rest of what you have here. And with a lot of things, it's better if they're unregulated, they're just traditions, traditions, things coming from the heart, etc. Do you agree with me on this point that you actually do not solve the situation at the turn of the year with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U79	Let's do it, because then you could say it's not an anthem at all, it's a folk song. Perhaps next year, the honourable Speaker of the Riigikogu will draw the bill if we do not accept it and that the Estonian anthem is the story of Pacius and Jannsen, nor will the flag law enter the flag act Everyone knows the words, and everyone can sing. It's also a nice folk song that lives in our hearts. So obviously it's not quite adequate that we're not regulating it. Yes, we are. As I have said many times, we confirm that this is our anthem. Raising the flag is a festive occasion. The turn of the year with the President's speech is also an undeniable festive event, otherwise the President would have no reason to go there. In such cases, you have to play the anthem, which in itself attaches to this custom. The bill does not make it mandatory, I agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U80	Hardi Volmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U81	Dear waitress, One of the accusations you just dropped sounded something like a dark tilted force in this hall trying to make the anthem's text so-called groove-neutral. Just in case, I refreshed my memory and went over that papa Jannsen text. Let me ask you what the hell it would be like to do that. The assumption is that it should be possible somehow to deconstruct this text in such a way that it becomes ribbed neutral. I assume you know those words by heart, and I'm asking you how that would be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U82	But from the first sentence, if, instead of 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy', there were 'My homeland, my happiness and my joy' and there was a groove-neutral.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U83	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U84	Dear Sir Helme, who you call yourself an Estonian man! You yourself, as the landlord, have called yourself a principal in an interview. That's it. But your performance here is a very deep example of demagogy. You have come up with a huge problem, as if the Estonian anthem were under massive attack, although it is not. You're creating a problem that you're fighting against yourself. I hear the anthem from the window of my apartment in Tallinn every morning and then my heart begins to sing with joy. You're talking about the great blasphemy that's been put into questions. In my opinion, your performance here is one of the great bullies, and from the back of that spite, the 17 votes you received in the presidential elections are staring back. This is your spite against our president. My question is, why do you think that all things that are in the heart must be governed by law? Those that are in the heart are often more important and larger than things governed by law. The Soviet power was very regulated by law, but he never reached our heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U85	I don't know, it's probably the fifth or sixth version of this question now, the whole heart thing. As far as demagoguery is concerned, first of all, I have not dealt with any demagoguery here; rather, many people have asked questions about demagoguery. As for the fact that I'm a senator, it's a malicious interpretation again. I've called myself a senator in terms of independence. I'm independent, I'm an independent gentleman, and you can't take that away from me. As far as the fact that I have a grudge against the President is concerned, I would not be content with the President unless he tried to dictate certain decisions and standards of conduct to the Riigikogu or to interfere with our work as legislator, which in no way falls within the limits of his mandate. If the other 100 MPs do not see the problem of the President interfering and saying, among other things, in the run-up to local elections, that there is a party that cannot be voted for, bearing in mind, of course, our political party, then I will answer him by pointing out to him and society that he is not acting adequately, he is beyond his authority, and he has not received a mandate from the people. That's my answer. As for the fact that something lives in your heart, yes, 'in my heart you live in a nice room on the side of the sun', but if you don't have a room, you can't live there. And if the anthem is not in the law, then it is not the anthem. It's as simple as that. If it has still not been understood, after more than an hour of discussion here, it is very regrettable, although the heart may be very large. By the way, I would like to say now about overregulation, which has been repeatedly put on the agenda here. Ladies and gentlemen, we deal more or less with overregulation every day. We are adopting, by dozens of times, all kinds of laws and legislative changes from the Euro Directives, which are largely completely pointless overregulation. So if you are against overregulation, I have a very serious appeal to you: look critically at all the drafts that come here and identify, and it is not overregulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U86	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Helme, You do not consider me a full Estonian citizen, as one of your answers revealed, but I pay tribute to you because it has been fucking interesting to listen to this debate right now. The thing is, I have a certain interest in history, and there were some things that I thought I could only read it somewhere or look at it in the chronicle. I understand there's one year to the election, and if there's no other reason, it's because you're the biggest patriot and everyone else pays nothing. I would ask what logical development is. What slogans will come next, land and people, pure blood, eastern territory? There are many slogans that can be used for this purpose. What can we expect?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U88	I do not understand what this question has to do with flag law. I have not called anyone an unfulfilled Estonian citizen; I just said that there are people among us who do not respect our anthem, for whom there is another Estonian president, not Kersti Kaljulaid, and to whom the symbols of another country are closer to their hearts than the symbols of the Estonian state. If you are trying to claim that there are no such people in Estonia, I do not know that you are quite blindfolded. Now, what are the following slogans? You see, the Estonian people are so small and there has been a very long history of wrong politics in Estonia when some strange stories have been said that we have done a terrible job compared to our fellow fates. I don't know exactly who these fate mates are. Of course, there are some Moldovan or Ukrainian countries that have gone very badly, but there are also those who have done very well. If we look, for example, at what is happening in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, I would say that these countries are doing much better, even though they are, in a certain sense, our destiny mates. But coming to what's next, the next thing you know, we're not dealing with populism, unlike the Centre Party, which already allows retirement. I'd like to know, respectables, where do you take that 360 million? Put it on the table! Where do you get that? IRL, where do you take this 360 million to raise pensions? Put it on the table! I don't mind raising it, of course, but I'm also a pensioner, and I'll have 100 euri more. Let's face the real problems first! You will take and allow free public transport in a completely irresponsible manner! Tens of millions of free public transport, knowing that this will not work and will be closed in a few years. But who is responsible for the fact that tens of millions have just been blown away? It's pure populism, pre-election populism! So don't blame me for populism! In my heart, when we speak from the heart here, the most important thing is the Estonian people. It's in my heart, and I will fight for this nation the way I see fit, and the way I can. If anyone finds that I am doing this wrong and badly, I say that that is why there are six political parties in this Parliament, and we are all fighting for Estonia in our own way, each in some way. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U89	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U90	Thank you! Dear Sir Helme! From your last reply, I heard the first normal sentence that all political parties are fighting for Estonia in their own way, but they are fighting. After all, the demagogue of your performance today has been built on a struggle as a process to think that no one would want a gender-neutral anthem of this; as if no one respected the anthem and was opposed to the symbols, it had not been heard that no one opposed it. You create this fight, the fight is more important to you than it is to yourself. This is an obvious process and it is demagoguery. Now you are saying here that everyone is fighting for Estonia, but before you said that our party loves Estonia more than your party. It's about the same as Trump said he had a bigger nuke than Kim in North Korea. I would say that in many countries many things are not regulated by law. The British Empire has no constitution. Is the United Kingdom a country or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U91	I understand that Mr Marandi calls for us to liquidate the Constitution. When it comes to who has a bigger nuclear knob, it's indisputable that Trump has a bigger nuclear knob. You could understand that, too. I understand at all that Mr. Marrand has some problems in realising reality. You could read the press, it should include the vigilante's daily duties. If he reads journalism, for example Sirpi . now it is Sirp, not Sirp and Vasar.. read Rainbow and read Estonian Päevaleht and other journalism publications, then he can prove that in January several articles discussed how the anthem could be made to be gender neutral. These discussions have taken place on Facebook and many other places. If Mr Marrandi has not been able to register these things in his mind, it is not a social problem, it is his problem. We have recorded them in our consciousness and are dealing with this problem at a social level. As far as demagogy is concerned, both Mr Marrandi's questions have been completely demagogic and, in fact, do not deserve any answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U92	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U93	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The answers to the last questions show that you must be getting tired. In fact, it's gotten to a very, very wide surface. Here it's suggested that if you want to know the details, you can talk outside in costars, it's about pension increases, free public transport and everything else. Public transport, by the way, is currently being subsidised by the state, with 21 million municipalities going there for years. But that's it. I wanted to ask what's going to change with this law. You said we didn't have an anthem. We have a national symbol, we have a national symbol. What will change if we adopt this law, and what will happen if we do not adopt it? The anthem has been and will probably continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U94	Mr Hallemaa still hasn't got it right. We don't have a national symbol. We have a national song under ordinary law, which we have called the anthem, which was called the anthem already during and before the first Republic of Estonia, since about 1860, so already around 170 years. But in law we don't have a fixed that it's an anthem. If, in this hour and a half or a little more than an hour, it has still not been understood in this hall that we do not have an anthem fixed in the law and the purpose of this draft is to fix Paciuse-Jannsen's song as an anthem, then I do not know that there is a lot of air here, but somehow it doesn't make sense. There is only one conclusion to be drawn from this: many in this Chamber have no political will to understand this matter and put their hands on the anthem as a song enshrined in law with these specific words. It's unfortunate, because it cancels all the stories about how the anthem lives in our hearts. So it doesn't live in the heart. Therefore, you will keep the back door open so that it will indeed be possible to sing 'My country, my happiness and joy', not 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy'. That's why he needs to be fixed in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U95	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U96	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! In our Reform Party, we really think that the people of Estonia respect our anthem and that they sing it with pride and joy, without the coercion and regulation of the law. Mr Helme, in your introduction or in one answer to the question, you said that the attitude towards the anthem, such as getting up while singing anthem, is also a matter of courtesy. My question is precisely the same courtesy. If I've been watching this debate for almost an hour and a half, I've heard that in the course of this, you have called people half-sensory, questions pointless, questioners of petty spite and psychic shift. I understand that this is a very emotional issue and the debate has been very emotional. But how do you feel about this debate we've been having here now, has it been polite and polite?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U97	I'm an honest person and I say what I mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U98	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U99	Thank you. It's a clean conclusion. Once upon a time, a French diplomat, listening to the guns bang, it was during Potemkin's time, said what kind of kikekie. I'd say it again if I didn't want to do plagiarism. The first part of today's ballet succeeded. I only have one comment for the future. You said here in the meantime, dear colleague, that you did not like the Estonian climate at all, and if things were a little different, you would go to live in a warm country. Do not make such a mistake in the future, because the people may realise that you love Estonia only in good weather and do not love it at all in bad weather. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Well, how can that be with EKRE?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U100	I've loved her for 68 years in bad weather. I'm afraid there won't be any new, fresh love here. If anyone expects me to leave Estonia, this hope is deceptive. I'm not going. If anyone expects me to leave politics, at least in the foreseeable future, they won't. Don't count on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U101	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U102	Thank you. Giving an anthem a status worthy of an anthem could be a gift from the Riigikogu for the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. Unfortunately, we are hearing completely empty questions in this Chamber, which are trying to justify their vote against. We will probably hear even more of this empty in our speeches. But I know that at least one party has a practical draft to oppose. The chairman of their party has said that national rule is dangerous and inhuman dystopia. After all, the anthem is one of the symbols of this inhuman nation state that must be destroyed. But since everyone else here is probably against, would you comment? At least to me personally, it seems that the other parties are going along with this agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U103	If we look a little over our shoulder, we'll see that screaming and hysteria broke out when news came that the government decided to support our bill. The government apparently found in a completely pragmatic way that, indeed, it is not stated in the law that Pacius and Jannsen songs are officially the anthem of the Republic of Estonia, and we support, of course, doing what is then there. It was then that hysteria broke out and all sorts of foolish excuses began to be sought, such as how people with disabilities would have to stand up, but they could not do so, and how they would be punished. Someone even turned out to be so silly that the anthem can only be presented in the presence of a member of the local government, which has not been fixed anywhere in any way. Carri Ginter presented some completely ridiculous legal analysis, which included the involvement of her ten - year - old son to deepen ridicule. It's all a mockery. If anyone now talks about how the anthem lives in our hearts and the Estonian people love and respect their anthem, then I say that the Estonian people love and respect their anthem, there is no doubt about it, but among the Estonian national elite there are unfortunately many who have gone along with this mockery and mockery. This shows once again that this law is needed. I understand that a large part of this hall found that you shouldn't let the EKRE take this point, even though we didn't even think of it as a point where you score, and that's why you have to screw this up now. Respectables, you have done us a very great service! For two and a half months, the epithematics has been discussed by the public and, during this period, more and more people have understood what our purpose is and have bitten through the political and ideological background of this mockery. I thank you very much for helping us to go even deeper into the heart of the Estonian people with this anthem bill! I guess the next one is in your hands on this bill. But as I said, we have won half, because the flag law states that the story of Pacius and Jannsen is the Estonian anthem. It is a victory on our side, but the other side is that we have made it clear to the Estonian people that the anthem is a vital national symbol for us and we have fought for it. So thank you so much for the favors you gave us that you would not have done if you hadn't been so shortsighted! But I'm saying we're gonna get a full victory if we come back to this hall after the election with the same bill and we're gonna adopt the law of the anthem in full.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U104	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A few questions were raised earlier that this debate has gone beyond the limits of regularity. I would remind you that the answer to the questions has perhaps been too correct and simply stating the facts, unlike some questioners, even Mrs Pikhof, who labeled you as a mentally unstable person with mental disorders, or, more specifically, Mr Marrand, who was asking for very high blood pressure and who was really nervous, losing control and falling into demagogy. But let's be honest, there is nothing better and there is nothing to please the heart than a couple of sexes who really sense the so-called national excess in this Parliament and are therefore cornered. However, in the context of the Anthem Act, Mrs Oviir has surprisingly brought into play some Crimean and Russian issues. Perhaps, in the end, you will remind Mrs Oviir that, as we know, Russia is also occupying Estonia's territory. Is there ever hope that the law of the anthem will be passed and that the anthem will also play in St. John's Landing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U106	It's like watching the future on a crystal ball, isn't it? I will base my opinion on a whole range of seriously-taken, not propagandist, international analysts who are trying to make political projections for 10 to 20 years. They all agree that today's Russia has crossed the verge of its restoration and has embarked on a downward path. It is only a matter of time before Russia can face a new disintegration. If this really happens, we will definitely get back to both Petseri and Jaanilinn. Whether this is happening and with what kind of additions it is happening, i.e. whether we can also be caught by a wave of refugees from Russia, when an internal unstable situation arises there, is very difficult to predict, but it can happen. These are scenarios that, of course, are being dealt with in the countries looking ahead. Estonia is unfortunately not one of those countries. We are such a party-eating country that loves to punch ourselves in the chest: we are in NATO and in the European Union, just as NATO and the European Union would forever have been cut off from forever to ever, we will only live in the future from the euro grants, etc. I would call on all of us here to think a little deeper and analyse the world's balance of power. The world order put in place at the Potsdam conference is essentially over. Once again, it is absolutely not out of the question that Jaanilinn and Petseri will return to us. But we can also say the other way around: it is not excluded that there will be a different upheaval in Russia, and Russia will start to strengthen again after some time. However, these are issues that should be discussed at some conference dedicated to Russia, in which very serious analysts and politicalists participate, not this forum in the Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U107	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. The presentation of the commission is made by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U108	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. I represent a confident Estonian on a daily basis, but that has nothing to do with this case. I am the rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the debate on this draft and will pass on to you the Commission's debate. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the legalization of the anthem on 6 March. a. As usual, the representative of the initiator, Jaak Madison, was able to introduce the draft Estonian Anthem Act. Jaak Madison explained that the purpose of the draft is to ensure a legal position similar to the anthem of the Republic of Estonia, as the flag and the brave have. What this law is trying to legitimize is familiar to you. Mart Nutt, for his part, felt that he understood the desire to establish the anthem of the Republic of Estonia by a separate law, but the issue of choice is how and in what way it is done and how it is regulated. Of course, there was a debate over what has been going on here for an hour and a half, what about this courtesy requirement? In our committee, the Reform Party was represented this time by Laine Randjärv, who took us back to 2009 as the flag law, which has to do with this issue, was under discussion in the Riigikogu. It was then reached that Erneksa's participation in the evening flag-slaughter story was fixed in the flag law, but the anthem as the morning flag-slaughter song was not fixed. Speaking of who wins something, maybe it's Laine Randjärv's victory. All that wheelchair debate, it went through. We also arrived at Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, a representative of the Government of the Republic, or rather the representative of the Ministry of Justice, who said that the Government of the Republic decided to support the draft anthem in principle. At the same time, the government does not feel that there is a legal gap which is in no way contrary to the Constitution. On the other hand, such regulation cannot be excluded. That is how this debate took place until we began to form the Commission's position. In order to sum up this debate somehow, so someone outside this hall to see it, this summary is as follows. Anthem or other symbols of nationality other than the flag and the coat of arms of state are not included in the Constitution, which in principle does not preclude their regulation by law or by regulation with a lower legal force. Today, the Estonian anthem is 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy' on the basis of a social agreement. Thus, the anthem can be understood as a desire to define a particular piece of music. It is completely pointless for the law to describe the right and the way in which the anthem is used. Simplify: The anthem is presented at a festive moment, and whoever can stands. This practice is actually well established and there are no problems with it. Indeed, there is no point in referring to § 245 of the Penal Code, because the taunting of the anthem is still punishable under § 245 of the Penal Code, the first paragraph of which reads: 'The ripping off, crushing, desecration or other forms of blasphemy of the Estonian flag, coat of state or other official symbol, as well as the taunting of the national anthem, shall be punishable by a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to one year. " The same act, if committed by a legal person, is punishable by a financial penalty. This section has to be used annually, with three or four cases per year. They have all been linked to the blasphemy of the flag, it is also quite logical and understandable. Therefore, the only relevant reason is to concretise the anthem. The Constitutional Commission also has a positive programme for the protection of the anthem, its initiative took place on 6 March, when we decided to initiate the amendment of the Estonian flag law. The Estonian anthem is currently mentioned in two laws, already mentioned in the Penal Code and the Flag Act. Today we are at a stage that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has initiated the amendment of the flag law. This bill will arrive after the government has delivered its opinion. It can be said in advance that we propose that when the Estonian flag is raised, the Long Hermann Tower is used as a musical signature for Friedrich Paciuse 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy' (words: Johann Voldemar Jannsen) as the acephras of the Republic of Estonia and, in the fall of the Gustav Ernesaksa 'My Fatherland is my arm' (words: Lydia Koidula) the signature created on the basis of the fragment. Now I come to the decisions. We decided that this draft should be at first reading today, on 13 March. We didn't have any disagreements about that. I proposed that this bill be rejected. There were 7 members of the Commission: Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Rein Randver, Tiit Terik, Arto Aas, Laine Randjärv and Kalle Laanet. Of course, Jaak Madison, the initiator's representative, opposed the rejection. Now it's just the last one. As regards the initiation of the law amending the flag law and whether it is a victory, at least half of the victory we have achieved once Pacius is marked there with Jannsen. The other members of the Commission were in favour of initiating this draft law with the abstention of the EKRE member. That's the truth. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U109	And for a long time, because there are no questions. Thank you. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Laine Randjärv, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for his good words. Now for the speech. On 21 February we were able to read the news from the Estonian National Broadcasting Portal: "Musik and actor Marko Matvere have been conspiring on a secret project for a few years, building an anthem machine for Estonia's 100th birthday. [---] The first groovy experiments actually took place as early as 2015, when Matvere built a mechanical horn, which was christened by jokes as a steak machine. [... ] When the first machine squeezed out only one note, the next goal was already a mechanism that plays off the melody. With the help of friends and Rõngu's instrument museum, a total of eight used tubas were sought and after a number of figuring, experiments and failures the author was able to win a dance in his garage. ' Should Marko Matvere have tested the anthem machine and toured it around Estonia if the bill in question had been valid as a law? A rhetorical question, not even waiting for an answer. On the website of the State Chancellery you can find the wording: 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy' is a praise song for Estonian culture, people and state. It expresses joy and pride. The Estonian anthem is used for national ceremonies, sports competitions or other public events. The anthem is not to be taunted. " Essentially, we already know the text of the bill. So it's been written long before EKRE. The subject of the anthem is close to the heart of people. That's right. Discussions around the anthem have been taking place since the early days of our country. At the beginning of the last century, but also at the end, and indeed only recently, it was discussed what this anthem should be and in what words there has been dissatisfaction that the way is the same as in neighbouring Finland, and many other things have been discussed. I would like to add that not only the Min Anthem 'Maam' of the Republic of Finland, but also the 'izamõ' of the Livonian anthem, the same way has been created by Fredrik Pacius. Küllo Arjakas writes long and professionally about discussions about the anthem, including 12 January in our Earth. Anyone with an interest can get to know the history of culture, I'm not going to recount it here for a long time. But reading is interesting, I suggest it. We know that from the beginning of the national statehood, the Estonian anthem was so fixed that it was not changed or introduced by a separate law. However, the independence manifesto of the Republic of Estonia, published on 24 February 1918, is an act in which the text of the Estonian anthem is partly printed. The Estonian anthem as such, its words and manner have not been clearly established in other legislation and the patriotic song 'My Fatherland, My Happiness and Joy' has traditionally acquired the meaning of the Estonian anthem. That's the truth. In fact, it is remarkable that we Estonians, who are the subject of the saying, as many as there are people, as many different opinions, have been in agreement on a large scale for almost 150 years, we have regarded the work 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy' as an important story of symbolic value, the anthem of the Republic. The Reform Party Group does not support the present draft 577. The reason for this decision is not that the anthem is opposed to such a provision, but that the draft contains a series of requirements that cannot always be carried out and cannot be taken into account. The current wording in some people can generate the idea that they are wrong and that their conduct is punishable by law. And not because they don't want to follow the law, but because they're different. Nor can the law be observed, for example, by orchestra players whose instruments do not allow standing while playing. There are certainly a number of exceptions that are not going to be listed here and which have already been mentioned several times in this Chamber. I was an alternate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I believe that the solution that comes from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the large Chamber, which proposes to mention Jannsen's words in the flag law and 'My Fatherland, my happiness and my joy' with Pacius' music, is sufficient, clear and concrete. It tells us exactly which work was created by the authors and which title is the anthem of the Republic of Estonia, where the flag of the Republic of Estonia is raised to the Tall Hermann Tower. This knowledge should in future alleviate tensions in the context of this issue. I believe and hope that during the restoration of our country's independence, the music of Pacius, which was spontaneously introduced, and the anthem 'My Fatherland, my happiness and my joy', will remain an important symbol of our country forever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U111	Mr Thomas Jürgenstein on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U112	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Since the turn of the year, the need to protect the anthem of the Republic of Estonia has been widely discussed. Unfortunately, as with many other sacred things, the anthem is the most protected by freedom, openness, inner dignity, and love, not so much by regulations, paatos, and commandments. The anthem is undoubtedly important to Estonians. I understand the confusion of many on the turn of the year when the anthem of the Republic of Estonia was not played after the President's speech. President Kersti Kaljulaid was also sad about this case and apologized. I quote the President: 'I am sad and I apologise for not playing the anthem in the ETV programme for New Year's Eve. I was surprised at the absence of an anthem at the concert hall, but I also believed in the first hours of the new year that the anthem still sounded on TV. " Looking back at the debates on the New Year's Eve without an anthem, it is no wonder that today two drafts have been submitted to mark the anthem in the law. I will now mention a few points that the Socialists believe should be the basis for writing the anthem into the law. First of all, the anthem must not be delivered superficially. Recently, many people received an ad with a photo of one of the leaders of the party that submitted today's draft and his heartwarming wish for a holiday 'Happy anniversary of the Republic of Estonia! '----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Think about it. It's Native Language Day tomorrow. Then the advertising went on in the same way. The title of the anthem was written in the form 'My Fatherland, happiness and joy', and the author of the anthem's words Johann Voldemar Jannsen's last name had been forgotten. The draft explanatory memorandum stating that the Republic of Estonia was announced on 12 February 1918 at the Pärnu Endla balcony also raises questions. Although there is probably no attempt to change the anthem or to sneak back to Julius' calendar behind these examples, these are obvious examples of superficiality. This superficial spirit, unfortunately, is also borne by today's bill. This is what creates the possibility of ironing the draft law on the anthem. Today the name of the lecturer and lawyer Carri Ginter, who unfortunately received the opportunity to ridicule this bill in a Postimees article a few weeks ago, has sounded on several occasions. The article is entitled "Sit the Anthem Misusers for a Year." I quote this article: 'Section 3 of the Law says: 'Everyone has the right to use the anthem of the Republic of Estonia on anniversaries, national ceremonies and other festive events, following good practice. ' This is an exhaustive list, which precludes use in all other situations. Anthem singing is not allowed for every event, but must also be festive. For example, ordinary birthdays and patriotic moments should be excluded. Under no circumstances can your children sing an anthem at home or singing lessons'. I've heard that today's bill has already reached the big Debelak false news. You shouldn't give us a chance to treat our anthem that way. What characteristics should the anthem meet? First, the national anthem should be for everyone. I would like to stress that the anthem is sacred, and there is no need for the law to make itself feel badly about wheelchair-bound and other disabled people who cannot rise while playing the anthem. You can't underestimate these people. They can read the law. They can't act in accordance with the law, and the explanatory statement doesn't add anything here. Similarly, a man of faith who honors him with the most sacred things covered in his head must be taken seriously. Due to these examples, the proposed draft is highly questionable. Second, the anthem must be released, not chained. Good friends, state and society are nothing from outside and higher, but they are part of each and every one of us. Society is made up of citizens who create our own country rather than expect someone to propose to them with this regulation, that certainly also applies to the singing of the anthem. It is enough for the free people's society if there are practices and the laws state the anthem of the Republic of Estonia together with the authors of the way and words. Today, a sensible opportunity has been proposed to complement the flag law, which would clearly indicate that the anthem of the Republic of Estonia is 'My Fatherland, my happiness and joy', by Friedrich Pacius and by Johann Voldemar Jannsen, Jannsen with two n words. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that today's choice is just like deciding between the many laws and rules of the Old Testament and the love and personal responsibility of the world and the new Testament. The Social Democrats prefer the latter, figuratively speaking, we sing the anthem into our hearts and abandon excessive regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U113	On behalf of the Group of the Mart Nutt Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! When this bill was handed over, it looked like they were breaking in through an open door. Why? First of all, there are probably historical reasons in the Constitution here, but perhaps this was not just considered important at the moment when the Constitution was drawn up, but it is possible to go back to earlier constitutions in history, too, in fact, the flag law was laid down and the law of the national coat of arms was laid down, but the law of the anthem was not specifically provided for. Why was that? I don't want to go too far into history, but I think there's two options. One is that it was taken for granted, and the other is that in pre-war Estonia there were actually quite serious disputes over the anthem, much more serious than after 1991. This is probably because the dispute about whether the current Estonian anthem is suitable or not has not really been raised seriously, it has not been disputed, as long as this draft was not handed over. Now the question is whether the anthem can be regulated by law. Of course you can, of course, it's a question of choice. If there is a situation in which an existing anthem is to be replaced, that is probably the question that has arisen. If this is not the case, we can discuss whether it could be seen as over-regulation or whether it could be seen as an additional guarantee that the anthem will not be changed. We can view it any way we like it. The second question: if the anthem is to be legally regulated, should it be done by a separate law or could it be done by another law on symbolism? The law is the same, it doesn't matter whether it's in one law or another. If that's the Riigikogu's decision to write an anthem into the law, then let's do it. It is indeed a matter of choice whether we are going to make a separate law or whether we are going to do so within the framework of an existing law. Speaking of how to implement, or even to lay down, the procedure concerning the use of the anthem, I recall that, in 1999, I may be somewhat mistaken in time, the flag law removed the so-called "drakonic" provisions which provided for penalties for the use of the flag. Desecration is a completely different issue, but penalties were provided for, for example, when the flag had not been raised or about such matters. They were taken out of the law. This was done in complete agreement; it was not simply considered necessary for the flag; it was not considered appropriate. Now the question about the anthem is also whether such a procedure should be included in the law. Rather, we too have tended to prevent this procedure from being included in the law. In a situation where we have a choice before us, whether we want to make a separate law and lay down this separate law, I do not know whether one or two sentences or one or two lines, or whether we want to use some existing law on symbolism and to supplement it, this second option is entirely appropriate for us, acceptable. I think the drama has been artificially created right now. We are very comfortable with the current anthem; we have no desire to change this anthem; we do not want to change the melody or words, not a word there. If we find legitimization of the anthem practical, we will. But we're perfectly okay with the option that we're doing it in the state flag law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U115	On behalf of the Group of the Aadu Black Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The story of the Estonian anthem is, of course, long, exciting, diverse and full of adventures. In fact, I last wrote in Postimees in 2008, but for the last 40 years, I have been telling the students how the Estonian anthem has become loved, how it was sung already during World War I in prison in Germany, and how it got on the record, when the Germans wanted to know how one or the other hostile state lived and how its soldiers lived, what they thought and how they felt in their hearts. In 1936, of course, the anthem had far greater disputes than it had been ten years ago, for it was found that the anthem had grown old. They say it's beautiful, but it's archaic. According to our grandfathers, he sounded good in the church, but in modern times, so it was thought in 1936 that he would really change. It didn't work out. This is for several reasons, whether or not because the last victory option had been heard from the German radio as a ledertafel story, and then it turned out that it could not be used now. There was also a discussion of how Gustav Ernesaks had loved an old or a new anthem. Actually, the archive doesn't exactly tell the story. In 1938 it was decided that five composers could participate in a closed competition with the task of writing a new Estonian anthem. One of them was Gustav Ernesa, who later returned it at all costs because of times like this. It was about whether Estonians love and appreciate their anthem or not. I recently had a talk with colleagues from the Latvian Parliament who were told to be awakened by the way Estonians respect their anthem and, oh, wonder, can sing not only the Estonian anthem, but also Latvia's. On this point, Janis Vucans has now proposed that Latvian textbooks be printed in the same way as the Estonian and Lithuanian anthem before World War II. We could do that, too. We respect not only ourselves, but also our good neighbours. As for the fact that the anthem must be set by orders and prohibitions, it is a question of thinking, it is a matter of national temperament, and that must also be borne in mind. You see, we just celebrated the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, during which something changed. With regard to such external, harsh demands, I would say to my good colleague Mart Helme that, in fact, instead of the Byzantine spirit that sometimes strikes out, there was an internal religious problem. Not the Soviet bans and commands that you are obliged to perform rituals even if you do not believe them, but those who know and believe honor them. Estonians respect their anthem. Some, for example, honor the song 'Mother's Heart' and, even during the sound of it, stand up on the anniversary of their mother or grandmother, which is the matter of her heart. Listening to the draft speech, I came to an old and familiar conclusion: every assessment, everything they say, usually speaks a little bit more of a talker than the object they talk about. I'll make sure we think the same way in this hall and go in the same direction. But how can you be an ally with them if you want to be, who, like the other guys who listen to them, choose to get dirty with dirt and then say that we're somehow bad? At the moment when a good colleague Mart Helme spoke to each other, he is always a wise and nice man, he doesn't give a trumpet or anything to the trumpet talk, apologies, against the nose talk, I remembered another good old tradition of the Estonian people. You know, in the old days, the kind of guy who said he was gonna give the others a horn, put in a bag. Good old Estonian custom. I was already thinking that maybe it should be restored, but maybe it is not necessary, because we have a cultural people, we have internal culture, we have parliamentary traditions, and obviously we can manage differently. The Centre Party Group discussed this draft and considered that the anthem and national symbols should be addressed, that people should be raised in schools and educational institutions so that no one's education is left open. Can I have a little more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U117	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U118	I'm sure it's important. At the same time, we did not consider it necessary to do this by order and prohibition. It reminds us of another society where external observance was important, even by order, and where double standards arose. Finally, in this society, where everyone walks by the law, we do not understand who still loves or opposes. Perhaps it would be better if this world were simpler, clearer, more understandable and more humane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U119	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U120	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, We still have the bans and the orders. There is an article in the Estonian Penal Code that states that there is a penalty for taunting the anthem. Only that this punishment cannot be imposed, because no law states what this anthem we have, which is its words, which are five. So there should be protests against prohibitions and orders somewhere else. Let's get to the bottom of this. This is by no means a draft that we should discuss for a very long time remain in the legal debate. It is not a legal issue, it is not a legal issue, it is a choice of value, it is a value-based issue. It is a political choice which values we want to anchor and promote and which we do not. There are four kinds of political forces and four kinds of political values in this Chamber. So let's start with the left side of the window where the Social Democrats are sitting. Although they affirm, beat against the chest and occasionally talk about how scary they are Estonian-minded, their actions and their words are at the time when they forget that they have to speak about their Estonian-mindedness, disdain, dismantle Estonianhood, attack the Estonian nation state, undermine or turn Estonian national symbolics. These quotes we heard during the previous debate, and these quotations are known by everyone but yourself. For your voters, that's fine, for your voters. There are, I don't know, according to current data, about 8% of Estonian voters who are sympathetic to the fact that you are building globalism and eliminating the nation state and nationalism. You're trying to please your constituents. Then there's another company, including the left. They do not give a damn about the national symbolism of Estonia and the national state of Estonia. They may say that this anthem is in their hearts, they can pick up the flag from time to time and bow down to national values, but roughly 80% of their voters sing another anthem an hour before the turn of the year, and they don't know or even know that our anthem wasn't in the way, and they don't give a damn about the argument that goes in this hall. I understand the middle party: all political parties must always think about what their constituents want. On this issue, they do not make much difference as to whether they are pressing one or the other button in the vote today, because their voter does not resent it, either in the same direction or in the other. Then there is the third type of political forces in this Parliament, whom we could sum up with the term 'nationals' or 'ersatnationals'. These are the Reform Party, the Free Party and the IRL, whose constituents most want to be nationalized, like the Central Party, but they don't care much about it either further or backwards. They just know they have to be liked by their constituents. Whatever question you take, about 60%, 70%, 80% of the Estonian voters say they're nationalized. Of course, these people need to be sent out a virtuous signal from time to time. Of course, you have to hit your chest and say that we are nationalists too. From time to time, even fish that is extremely rich from soot water are caught when a shape is transferred from one place to another and is released after a slide for several good years and a period of election. Yes, like the Centre Party, they listen to their voters and take up positions. But I'll tell you again, if it comes down to decision, if it gets real, if it's real, then you're nowhere to be, then you're gonna fail. IRL has failed nationalism for years and years, the Reform Party has been pretending to be nationalism for years and years. Thanks to this false nationalism, dear friends, the Conservative People's Party is in Estonian politics. There is no doubt that we are nationalised and genuinely nationalized, and it is very important that, unlike you, we are willing to fight. We're willing to fight! It's not like we're retreating to the next line of defense where we're gonna fight tomorrow, because today's line of defense isn't worth fighting for. Every national and national symbol of Estonia must be stood up and fought if necessary. You dear friends, false ethnics are the reason why EKRE exists and why our support is high. As I have already said, the considerable part, the absolute majority of Estonian people think and know nationally, they highly value Estonian culture, roots and identity and want it to be represented in politics. They have seen more and more, I think we have a very important role here too, we are helping behind these masks that so many would like to take in Estonia, and have seen through those shops that have long since become unconvinced. Those false-nationals who are talking here today, or the estophobes who are here today saying that the anthem lives in their hearts, I can't see inside your heart. To be honest, I don't care what's in your heart either. I see in today's vote which button you press. I have no reason to think otherwise than that if you do not support one simple draft, which fixes the Estonian anthem as it has been for a hundred years, then you will not support the Estonian nation state, then you will not support the transformation of Estonian national symbols into national symbols, then in the forthcoming elections you cannot hope that you will do the Estonian thing. Show me your colors, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U121	We have an opportunity for another political X-ray. Andres Ammas, please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U122	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank my group for giving me the opportunity to speak on this subject. Without exaggerating, I have been able to speak the anthem of the Republic of Estonia hundreds of times as a music teacher, and I am happy to do so today in this honorable hall. Not submitting an anthem at the turn of the year was an extremely embarrassing mistake for the organisers of national broadcasting and New Year's Eve. Those who then decided to do so have, in my view, been rightly beaten. This mistake was particularly regrettable, because he gave one party the opportunity to once again stir up fears, once again to outwit, as today's waitress quite easily said. Agarus can easily be turned into grotesque, even though the initiator may not want to do so. With the anthem of the Republic of Estonia, friends, everything is very well. It's being sung better and better, and the words are in the minds of both young and old. I've been watching it for years. At the beginning of this year, when the wider public discussion of the anthem began, I felt the warmth of my heart when I read my friends' posts in the Facebook that their children from kindergarten or school were sorry! besieged by their parents because they wanted to sing the anthem of the Republic of Estonia once again and again at home, over and over again. The anthem of the Republic of Estonia does not need any extra protection and there is no need to be afraid of it. To create this fear, to manipulate it, I think it's even mean. So there's no reason to panic. But I admit that I thought it was more or less as embarrassing when the content of this bill began to be ridiculed by the sought-after, artificial legal constructions and arguments. That too, I think, was too much at times. Külli Taro, a very sympathetic counselor of the Chancellor of Justice, thinks that Estonia's national traditions are stronger than one hypocritical bill. We share his view and his view that if there is no problem, there is no need for law making. But we admit that if there are enough among our people to whom it is important that a legislative act is fixed, that the anthem of the Republic of Estonia is Pacius and Jannsen's "My Fatherland, my happiness and joy," we will do so. But there's plenty of that. Whether it's fixed in the flag law or whether it could be fixed in a single-phrase law, it doesn't make much difference. Any move beyond that, any further regulation is already too much. As they say, the devil is sometimes in detail. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U123	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U124	By the way, our southern neighbours have made one mistake that we should learn from: they initially introduced a four - vote anthem device by law and then had to start improving the law so that the anthem should also be presented unanimously. They had to correct that the anthem should also be presented, not in full length, but in one-almical form. Let us not make this overregulation mistake. I do not want to dwell on all the details, but I support what Mr Sõerdi said. You don't have to put a certain note in it, for example, and then fix the sound of the anthem. Good friends, you've experienced it yourself. We last sang in this hall together on the eve of the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. Conductor Janne Fridolin reasonably took not a si-bemolli, but either a la-bemolli or a sol-major and was good for singing. Triin Koch, the conductor of the women's choir at the Estonian National Museum, took the university, on the contrary, it was impossible to sing the higher sound and sing along. So you don't have to write everything down. It was about taunting the anthem. Yeah, so did Marko Matvere honor the anthem or taunt the anthem? People in my generation remember the controversy that broke out when Jimi Hendrix played the American anthem in Woodstock. Was it respect or reproach now? All kinds of kaverid anthem balance out on the border, whether they're fit or not. But with these details, there's no point in continuing forever. I was excited about another problem in today's debate. We have a popular folk song that is still loved to sing, and I think there is one good song, I would say that a self-ironic line (though I do not know if the writer of this series ever thought that way): 'At dawn we will explain who is the rightest Estonian. ' So this competition has gotten a little carried away in this hall again today and completely inappropriate and meaningless. It bothered me when the waitress, like, resented that the anthem was even being debated. My colleague, Aadu Black, was already reminded of the time before World War II. We didn't get a new anthem from that anthem competition, but that's where we got the Tuudur Vettiku from "The Gold of Your Nordic Sun," a very beautiful song. In the early 1990s, the general leaders of the Song Festivals, our beloved people, said that Pacius's song was too lidertafel and too, well, simple. Instead, they offered to have a Song of the North or a song of Ernesaksa or Evald Aava 'We are children of the North'. There were a lot of options. You can discuss it, there's nothing unacceptable about it. Perhaps in 20 or 50 years we will discuss what is the anthem of the Republic of Estonia. It doesn't make sense to cut this opportunity off. But in order not to misunderstand, I would say that both I and my groupmates are thrilled that all these disputes still remain and remain the same beloved Pacius and Jannsen, My Fatherland, my happiness and joy. I guess there's no reason to doubt the durability of this anthem. It was good enough to sing at the first general song festival, and it's good enough to sing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-13_U125	I will close the negotiations because the representatives of all the political groups have been able to make their point. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 577 at first reading. Now we're not listening to the anthem. We're listening to the hall call. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft Estonian Anthem Act, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, 577 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 51 Members voted in favour of the proposal and 8 were against, with one abstention. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 577 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings. Today's day in this big hall is over. We'll meet tomorrow at 1:00. The best! Closure of the sitting at 12.18 p.m.
