ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 44 members of the Riigikogu in Question Time. Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, Prime Minister, Mailis Reps, Minister of Education and Science, and Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, are in front of you today. I'll give you one more question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U2	The first question is for the Minister of Culture in the role of Prime Minister, Indrek Saare. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Culture in his duties as Prime Minister. Yesterday, employers came up with their manifesto for next year's election. They also focused there on tax issues that often arise in this Chamber of Riigikogu and made it very clear that tax increases must be stopped because the tax changes made have caused a great deal of confusion and, to a large extent, protest. People's morals have deteriorated and it has certainly had a negative impact on our country's tax receipts. They have also made it very clear that tax-playing or testing must be stopped. Today, the state budget was on the table of the Government of the Republic, where political parties also came up with various tax proposals: who wants to reduce electricity excise duties, who wants to reduce alcohol excise duties, etc. My question is whether you intend specifically to correct errors and, if so, whether this correction of errors has been analysed more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U4	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you, good questioner, for the question. I can assure you that the government agreed today, when discussing the state budget for next year, precisely what employers have asked for, i.e. in a tax truce. You don't play with taxes next year. On the contrary, it can be said that in practice the tax burden will decrease somewhat in the coming years, but this does not mean any drastic tax changes. As far as the issue of excise duties is concerned, the government, too, maintained that the increase in alcohol duty scheduled for the following year will be avoided. The increase in alcohol duty is no longer planned for 2020. Returning a little back in time, I also recall that the increase in excise duty planned for 2018 decided to halve the government coalition. So I can assure you that we fully agree that the mistakes that have been made must be recognised and that we must act accordingly on taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U5	Monika Haukanõmm, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U6	Thank you for your answer. I understand then that the reduction of electric excises is not being dealt with, regardless of what we are most likely to face. However, my second question focuses on social tax and on the fact that, when reading the employer manifesto, it seems that they have taken a lot of the proposals of the Free Party into their proposals: they are talking about both the ceiling of social tax and the floor of social tax and about reviving the labour market. Are and how much social tax issues are planned to be addressed in order to revitalise the labour market, while also bearing in mind that our pension and health systems are sustainable? Have these discussions taken place and where are they going?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U7	These discussions have taken place over the years, as we well know. As far as electricity excise duties are concerned, this debate has actually begun. However, this is more in the context of electoral promises, or who is going to the elections with which platform. As I said, the government has not decided to make further tax reductions next year, except for those I have already mentioned. I am very pleased that, as a social democrat, you as a member of the Free Party can recognise that there is a significant overlap in the employers' manifesto with the principles we have declared, as well as the electoral promises. I particularly like the way employers highlight not only the role of the state but also the role of employers in valuing our people, caring for their health, ensuring good education, which, of course, helps to ensure competitiveness from the employers' perspective. What I cannot quite agree with in a world-view or philosophical way is the rhetorical claim of employers that economic growth is the only basis for human well-being. Human well-being is not only about material well-being, but also about other factors that must certainly be taken into account. But, of course, economic growth in today's society is one of the preconditions for improving people's well-being.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U8	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U9	Thank you. Dear Minister, A little confusing for me was one of your positions. It is as if you admitted that the government has organised a major tax evasion, and the employers' manifesto also pays attention to the fact that taxes have been played. And the failure of excise policy is now very evident because more than 200 million euros are moving to Latvia every year. Therefore, your position is confused as to why this year's corrections were not made and why only electoral promises have been made instead of fixing these things in next year's budget. I think your position on this issue is very important, because you will most likely be the new chairman of the Socialists after the elections on 3 March. Why are you still pushing this error correction to the next stage?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U10	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. There were a number of statements that I don't really know how to comment on, and I don't think I have to. The members of the Riigikogu, like all other people, always have the opportunity to sit, predict on coffee grounds or whatever it is they want to do. As far as the government's stance on excise policy is concerned, I will say once again: yes, earlier forecasts of how increasing excise duties on alcohol affects people's consumption behaviour have proved somewhat flawed. Today's government, compared to many of the previous ones, has also given me a very sympathetic recognition that it went wrong, even though the increases in alcohol excise duty had, in fact, been largely included in the law by a previous government, led by the Prime Minister of the Reform Party. I must also remind you, among other things, that the government, led by the Prime Minister of the Reform Party, wanted to increase the excise duty on diesel considerably more quickly, which today's government coalition has put the brakes on, seeing that it has been overfished. Similarly, VAT on hotels, for example, was to be increased, which would have hit the tourism sector significantly. There, too, today's coalition made adjustments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U12	According to the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, asks Martin Helme. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U13	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Our party had a slogan in the local elections that the brainwashing of gender science would be taken out of schools. And our competitors, as well as our impeccably left-wing media, of course, loved to gloat about it, so there is no such thing as to scare people. There have, of course, been a lot of these programmes and projects in Estonian educational institutions, but now we can also give an example of the educational material. The second-class human teaching workbook, published by the publishing house Maurus, makes an undisguised homoagenda, as well as immigration propaganda. Eight-year-old children are shown that lesbian couples are also very nice and on the same stick with a normal, ideal family model. I would ask this question when someone took a mandate for this kind of propaganda in schools. Has your party ever asked the voters for permission to do so? And what are you going to do to get such propaganda out of schools immediately?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U14	Thank you. Dear Riigikogu! Good questioner! I took immediate action to see what our curriculum would say on the subject. First of all, the regulation, which is also in line with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which the honourable Riigikogu opens and reviews a few times in each of these configurations, says that the authors of teaching literature must be guided by the general requirements for textbooks. The general proposed requirements are that the textbook must conform to the curriculum; two reviews must be taken. And the curriculum itself is quite specific about what you should know at the end of your first degree. Since I assumed the questioner would ask about the family, I also took this place out of the national curriculum. I dare tell you, good Martin Helme, you can sleep well. The national curriculum doesn't make propaganda, either way. According to the national curriculum, by the end of the first grade, students must be able to describe why families differ and are similar to each other, they should value themselves and others, and they should know that people, their opinions and assessments, values are different. That is the purpose of the curriculum. If you're reading something else out there, I don't know what to say. Now, the methods in the family's treatment. As you know, fortunately, some children are born into a family, some are born outside the family, some parents have children when they are married, and some children have very valuable and wonderful parents who are living together. All these nuances will surely be exploited by the teacher at school because of his skills. And the methods used to deal with learning topics are chosen by the teacher himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U15	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U16	Thank you. I understand that you are not going to do anything to prevent teachers in schools from doing homo-propaganda to eight-year-old children, because this workbook deals with homo-propaganda. In addition, it shows the adoptions of people of different races, and I don't know what else. They may all exist in life, but they are not the main family species. And Estonian parents should not worry all the time about propaganda being given to their eight-year-old children at school, which is contrary to their home values. We don't have to keep watch all the time, so we have a ministry that's gonna make sure kids don't get all kinds of crap in their heads at school. And homopropaganda is bullshit, to which there is strong social opposition and which contradicts the values of the absolute majority of Estonian people. These people are too few to be considered equal...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U17	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U18	What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U19	Thank you, good questioner! You have a very clear view of the world, and I will come right to this propaganda or not propaganda. You're asking what the minister is doing and whether he's forbidding one teacher or the other. But think three steps forward: sometimes there are some ministers you like, sometimes there are others you don't like. If you really give one minister such a mandate that he can go to every school in Estonia and tell us what he thinks must be the method, teaching material or approach of one or the other teacher, which can and must not be used, then we will certainly not be the best in the world according to the results of PISA. This is the characteristic of the Estonian school, that our teachers are highly educated, that they receive continuous training and that they have the right to make their own choices. I can tell you that, like you have many children, I have many. I also have a child in this age group, and we were talking about it at home. My children go to Christian school, and we had a very thorough discussion at home. The child came home and said that he had seen such and such pictures and asked what it might mean. We had about an hour of very meaningful conversation, what it means, and how it has been unveiled in the Bible. This is exactly the kind of discussion that takes place at home. If you really think that a teacher at school is saying that this is now a new normality, then you are very, very far from reality. Teachers say that there are such models and models in society, and then they discuss it. And why is this discussed? The teacher will be responsible for explaining this. The textbooks are really very different. You gave an example, but the family approach is also in different textbooks. If the clear majority of parents, as you say, find that one or the other educational material is not suitable, then another educational material is chosen. And so it has been so far. If you think that this is a better solution, and so has the Riigikogu and the Committee on Culture discussed that only one educational material is introduced nationally in each subject, then this approach is also possible. But the Riigikogu has discussed this repeatedly and decided that it is not better, let us have competing teaching materials and let the teacher retain this choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U20	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U21	Thank you. Minister, what you are talking about, of course, is simply demagoguery. There will be so many questions here that unfortunately we will not get answers in Question Time. One is what political leadership is about when teachers decide and when you decide nothing. How did you get a mandate to make no decision and let the teachers decide? Ultimately, my current question is something more fundamental. That is what this is about: Minister, if any teacher decides to start explaining the relationship between men and women in family education class, we are limited to using porn movies as example material only between men and women, is everything okay? Is everything okay because that's what the teacher decided and the curriculum doesn't write anything in advance? That's the logic of your answer, and no sane person can agree with that logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U22	The question has been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U23	First of all, thank you! If you still have this incomprehensible here in the fourth year of work, I will say once again that the government and also the minister will receive a mandate from the Riigikogu. I have received a mandate from you. You have decided here that such a government will work in this composition. Now, to be exact. We have, of course, been guided by the law in terms of education policy. As I said, the composition of each Riigikogu has also repeatedly opened the basic school and upper secondary school law. It will come on the agenda now, too, and it will be possible to discuss it again here until spring, until the elections, including the issues of teaching material. So far, it has been a very firm decision that we have a number of textbooks in the selection of study material, including digital textbooks, and that the teacher can use either more digital or more paper teaching material according to his wishes. Also, the content of the hour, how he builds it, remains a teacher's choice. By the way, just for your information, we have such educational material, a family approach, a family textbook that has been translated and built up on the basis of a purely Christian approach. That's what it is, too. If you don't have it yet, I can introduce it to you on the bookshelf. So that's the material that exists, and that's the teacher's choice if he wants to use it. Now to your question. Those things that are forbidden are governed by the law. If a teacher does something that is prohibited by law, or uses some sort of drama that is forbidden to a minor, such as the porn you have referred to, then of course, this teacher will lose his job However, not all other things are prohibited, for example, if he brings to the school some interesting new illustrative teaching materials from Youtube, which are very much used and exchanged between teachers. In physics and chemistry, for example, this is done a lot. Of course we're not going to write anything about it, we're not going to do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U24	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U25	Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture in charge of the Prime Minister, asks Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U26	Thank you. Mr. Island! We have not been able to talk about Jüri Rata about education in Estonian; he will be speaking about learning Estonian. Tell me what the position of the warlocks is. You've made a lot of promises through the ages that the Russians' lives will be more comfortable, talking about glass ceilings, traps, etc. Fortunately, the general mentality in society has changed a lot over the last few years. What is your position in relation to the proposal to take Estonian kindergartens and schools to a common Estonian-language education? No language talk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U27	Thank you, Mr Jürgen Ligi, a good member of the Riigikogu, for this question and for raising this issue! I would certainly like to thank the Isamaa Group for bringing the debate on this topic to the Riigikogu hall last week as an important national issue. In my opinion, there was a very substantive debate here, which showed that the vast majority of this hall, who is actually shaping political decisions, where we are going, is largely united on this subject, perceiving what is possible in society and what the expectations of society are. There are, of course, different opinions and nuances that should certainly be discussed and discussed. I very much hope that as much as possible listens to what experts say, what is the fastest and best way to provide solutions, so that we can really talk about what should be the goal of the Estonian school, which is Estonian-language and Estonian-minded. This does not, of course, mean that French lyceum, German gymnasium or other such places cannot be studied in depth in another language. And if we look at the demographic distribution of Estonia, there is certainly a place in Estonian society for deeper Russian-speaking studies. But what we are going in is, in my opinion, a common understanding of the political forces in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U28	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U29	Thank you, Mr. Island! I guess it's inevitable that you commend the coalition partner who told us on this proposal that it was cynical, it's gone bad. And that was their official position. The fact that they are now debating does not disprove what has been said earlier. Now, your earlier statements on our proposal have been that it is incompetent, it is provocative, it is divisive, it is an old broken cannon. I could continue to quote what Mr Ossinovski said about this proposal. Tell me, do you have a disagreement here with Evgeny Ossinovski, perhaps new winds in social democracy are more cooperative in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U30	Thank you for your question. I didn't understand what kind of coalition partner you were talking about. [[A voice from the hall.]] I can't comment on that. On the first question, you referred to the Prime Minister, who said he did not want to answer your questions. I looked at what the Prime Minister has said, and I saw that Jüri Ratas said in the video that Estonia is constantly moving towards education in Estonian. I do not see that there is any contradiction to the bill you have proposed. The problem with the bill that you have tabled is that you do not say how to do it in this bill. You're saying in one sentence that we're going in that direction. I understand it's an axiom in this hall today that we're going to do it. However, the fact that we say this once again in the framework of one of the draft laws that we are moving in this direction is empty and meaningless legislation, which the Chancellor of Justice has just criticised here. We're just doing the law for the sake of a law that doesn't really tell us that we should change something in our behaviour to date. But the way we move in one stage or another and at what pace we move is very much dependent on local circumstances. We look at different situations in Estonia. My residence is in Lääne-Virumaa, my capital is Rakvere. Many years ago, the local government and the local community had a very thorough discussion with teachers. Today there is no Russian-language school or Russian-language kindergarten, and society works very well. When we look at Tartu, the capital of our education, for example, there is a Russian-language comprehensive school, a Russian-language basic school-gymnasium and two Russian-language kindergartens. Hence, it is perceived that this rhythm does not work exactly the same way. So all of this also depends very much on how the local community and local government perceive the situation that can be done in order to continue to guarantee quality in education.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U31	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Culture for Prime Ministership! Last week, there really was almost a general consensus in this hall that the transition to an Estonian-language and pro-Estonian school must start from kindergarten and that it needs to be dealt with immediately. Has the government been able to discuss the matter? Is there some kind of timeline that you're moving on with now? We already have enough analysis from experts, as well as studies on why this solution is the only one right. When does the government even have it on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U33	It's a good thing the Minister of Education and Science is sitting next to me. He reminded me that the next year's budget has allocated an additional EUR one and a half million in order to speed up the teaching of Estonian-speaking kindergarten teachers. As far as integration is concerned in general, I dare to confirm my area of activity, even though the Ministry of Culture coordinates Estonian language education for adults with a predominantly other language background, that we also work with the University of Tartu to find teachers, which is one of the key problems. Teachers have started studying there this year and ten more teachers have already been paid into Estonian language houses. Similarly, we have made student exchanges, for example, precisely in order for students who study mostly in Russian to have the opportunity of language practice and to see that it is actually possible to acquire subjects in an Estonian-language school if they are sufficiently present in this language environment and to improve their language skills, etc. These measures, what we have done, could be discussed for a long time. But the challenge facing the Ministry of Education is, of course, how to find enough teachers to teach good Estonian at both kindergarten and school.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U34	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U35	Answers Minister for the Environment Siim Kiisler, asked Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U36	Good Minister of the Environment! My question concerns the preparation of a forestry development plan. In your public speeches and press releases from the Ministry of the Environment, you say that this development plan is a social agreement. Now, if you look at the matter more closely, it turns out that the working groups that should put together the initial task of the development plan are unbalanced, not to say that the forest industry has been tilted. This criticism has come from several sources. How do you intend to reach a social agreement with this background?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U37	Thank you. I have really set such a goal that it is a social agreement. How will this eventually come about? With all this work programme, the first version is scheduled to be sent to the Riigikogu in May 2020. The process itself is very long. But I welcome the fact that so far all parties who have shown an active interest in this process have participated in the work. We are now working on drafting the initiation proposal, which has already been a long process. I do not agree with this accusation: the reproach has sounded on both sides. I have also received complaints from representatives of the forest industry. Indeed, in the case of a working group and sub-groups, we have four subgroups, according to the sector, who blame that they are on one side; others blame that they are on the other side. But when I look at the 35 names I confirmed as members of this working group in March, there are really people in the wall: from Valdur Mikita to Aigar Kallas and Tarmo Tüür to Ando Eelmaa. So there's a choice for every taste. I would stress that these people have been appointed as experts to this task force. From the outset, there has been an agreement that these people should represent their knowledge, knowledge and understanding of their field, not be there as representatives of a particular target group or lobby group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U38	Arthur Talvik, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U39	Clearly, but also from a number of experts, there have been complaints from not only social groups, that their opinion has not been taken into account at all, that they have not even been heard, and that certain parties have been shouting over. It is still a question of balance. How can a social agreement be reached when experts simply gather? Secondly, there has been a lot of criticism about the process that the materials that should be the basis for the initial task are very uneven, 'copy' and 'paste' from earlier things, and that the content of these discussions has not really reached that point. How do you comment on the management of this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U40	Thank you. In the case of such complaints, each complainer should be looked at to find out which material was not specifically at the level and at what point it was not at the level. All experts have been able to propose the challenges and priorities that are most relevant to them. There are also such open questions round, people have been able to offer their ideas. There has been a public event in which these topics were discussed. You personally went to the door at this event, but unfortunately you didn't come in for a reason. But on 26 October, the next event will take place for the public, and you will also have the opportunity to come to the meeting where this proposal will be presented and where you will be able to give an opinion. Even before that, at the beginning of October, we will put this draft proposal into an information system where everyone can also express their views. So this process is very open to everyone, not just experts. We have four sub-groups. So far, there have been four sub-group meetings and three single, large group meetings. All of their decisions, all of their minutes are available on the website of all of them. If there is a specific complaint about the wording of a point, you should look at it. But I say that we do not even have the final text of this proposal to initiate the development plan together. It is clear that at some stage some chapters may have been more crude, but the working groups have been working. I stress that experts were able to propose a wide range of priorities, and these priorities are also available as a list. I have not heard such a complaint that the priority put forward has not been described.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U41	Krista Aru, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Environmental Investment Centre, whose activities have been very important for raising our environmental awareness over the years, will certainly also participate in the development plan. Regarding the Head of the Environmental Investment Centre, his direct subordinates have sent you a very worrying letter as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The employment contract of the Head of the Environmental Investment Centre would have ended at the end of September. Why was the competition not announced in time to find a new member of the board? What were the reasons why the Council, without announcing the competition, simply extended the membership agreement until the end of December, although there is this very worrying letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U43	Thank you. First of all, I may be wrong here, but as far as I know, the employees of the Environmental Investment Centre have not been directly involved in the work of the Working Group on initiating the Forest Development Plan. Perhaps there has been a written proposal from some of them, but, as far as I am concerned, neither the staff nor the sole member of the board has participated in this work. But if you stop at the Environmental Investment Centre, the employment of this board member was extended a little less than three years ago by a decision of the Council. There was no competition at the time. Yesterday, there was a Council meeting where this issue was discussed on how to proceed with the selection of a member of the Bureau. A few days, less than a week before that, there was an appeal by the four middle-level leaders of this institution, where there were serious reproaches. There were no complaints of this kind before. When we discussed this yesterday at the Council meeting, it also turned out that the audit committee set up for the Council would discuss these issues more closely, but that was not on the table either. The internal audit has not raised such a debate either; the situation is new. In summary, the Council met with both parties, both a member of the board and a representative of the authors of this critical letter. Personally, I have also met and had a thorough discussion with all four people, on the other hand, with the board member. This thing is not black and white enough to say that there are good on one side and bad on the other side. Therefore, it was provisionally decided to examine the arguments put forward as the letter is fresh. Secondly, it was decided to extend the Bureau member's contract until the end of the year and thirdly to organise a competition to find a member during that period.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U44	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U45	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps answers the question asked by Enn Meri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! Our higher education landscape also has a Tartu Aviation College, where ten pilots are trained per year. Six of them get jobs in Estonia, four go elsewhere. The training is very high quality, but unfortunately, it also costs a considerable amount of money, i think, to be EUR 80000. I read on Monday that they want to increase the number of seats to 20. Here's my question for you. It's expensive training, and let's just say we're doing airBaltic, Finnair and who they are now. Would it not be conceivable that funding should not be free training: only after the pilot has worked on the Estonian route for five years, for example, will this debt be written off?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U47	Thank you, good questioner! The question was specifically about the aviation academy, but in reality it is a fundamental and bigger issue. A similar question will certainly be asked about the medical field, but also about social sciences in general, when there will be meetings with voters. On your question, I also took out separate statistics today on how much is then being worked in my field and how much is not being worked. I have to say, these numbers aren't really bad. First of all, 86% of graduates go to work immediately, and we can say that the remaining 14% are very likely not to do so for either family or other reasons, not because they cannot find a job. Unemployment is below 2%. The salaries of graduates are also much higher than those who do not have higher education. Now, if you look at an area such as aviation, which you have pointed out, there is competition and perhaps a special need for workers. This acute issue arises in a number of areas, such as software development, telecommunications, timber industry, administrative and assistance activities, all related to the ageing population, such as health care, education or social welfare. The question was whether it was possible to link people to Estonia through direction or in some other way. I have to say that the first thing we have to consider is whether we want a free or paid higher education. As long as education is free, it is a public good. We can't say except for the aeronautics. That's the deal right now. And the second question is that I am running out of time, and I cannot discuss here for a very long time whether we are ready to realise that, within the European Union, there are employers both here and there. That is perhaps what we will talk about in the next point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U48	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U49	Thank you. I can now confess immediately that I am in favour of paid higher education. But there, of course, other conditions should also be met, namely the student loan system, which allows you to live with. Let me give you a few more examples. You yourself mentioned medicine, where the same model should be applied, but, for example, in the maritime sector, we have 5 000-6000 sailors. How many cargo ships do we have? Zero. We have some passenger ships. This means that we train people out, which will then benefit Cyprus, Panama, Liberia and God knows what countries. Couldn't the mosquito think of an option?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U50	Can you train yourself to finance higher education? First of all, as far as direction is concerned, it has been discussed in one way or another. Rather, all of these models that could work are more linked to an incentive or carrot, whether we prefer or co-finance those who are only connected to a particular company. This model is widely used by Americans and is also quite common in Europe, for example, in Germany. There is this so-called scholarship, perhaps a few thousand euros. In non-study periods, just like our apprentices, you will be in a future job and are really involved with this company. There are very long contracts up to seven years old. I imagine that something like this would also be acceptable in Estonian society. Take, for example, the same aviation. Maybe a young person has an interest in this contract if he knows he's moving on to this airline. In the case of maritime affairs, the issue is much wider. There is this problem of how to reach consensus in society so that tax distinctions can also be made. So far, Estonia has taken the view very clearly that we do not have any tax distinctions, but in the maritime sector, ships do not come under our flag without tax distinctions. If other countries make tax distinctions and we do not, then it is actually a bit like agriculture. Why do we support transitional support? Because everyone else supports them, and otherwise our farmer would not have been treated equally. I wouldn't restrict sea schools. Our sailors are very good. There are sailors in my own family. I must say that they would all be happy to be under the Estonian flag. They have no interest in being under the Cypriot flag for three or four months and then making personal health insurance here. They would actually be happy to be in the Estonian tax system, but it needs other decisions that are already being developed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U51	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I'll expand the question. You said something about 85% of graduates go to work right after graduation. My question is how many of them work directly in their field of study and how many of the graduates go abroad and work there in their field of study. Is there any record of that? And is there any significant difference between bachelor level and master level graduates?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U53	I'm gonna get the data right away. Yeah, we really do analyze this data all the time. First of all, the first half of the question was about professional work. The characteristic characteristic of Estonia is that we have 70% of students in the major from Bachelor to Master's degree, which is even higher in Master's degree than in full-time work during their studies, and more than half of this 70% is already in professional employment during their studies. This kind of employment usually exists in other countries, but it is rather easier to work there. It is common for us to work in our field and full-time during our studies. I can tell you that these percentages are extremely different. For example, if you take the same telecommunications or IT companies, you practically don't go out anymore, that percentage is nonexistent. I am not going to read all these numbers, but let's say that at the same time there are 14% of those moving out in social and behavioural sciences, humanities and, unfortunately, health. I must say that the number one leavers are in healthcare, but the situation has improved: in health care, this percentage has been reduced and direct steps have been taken. We always have to analyze whether it's just that there are higher salaries somewhere. As we can see, in environmental sciences, for example, there are sometimes no challenges for all doctoral students and they move away from here to do some research. But in healthcare there was one reason, as we know, for the residency specificity, which has now been very much adapted. There are still young people who have remained in Estonia because of this choice. So every time we have to see if there's anything we can do. If it is really only about wages, then we have had a 50-year period that has brought in differences, but at times we can adapt things ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U54	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U55	The Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, is now asking a question, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In answer to Mr Helme's question, you made it clear to us in the woods and in the red that there would be plenty of homopropaganda in schools. Let us take note of this and also inform your voters, the Russian-speaking population. But my particular question is on a completely different subject. Under your leadership, another anti-human experiment is being prepared with our children, including my grandchildren. This is precisely the creation of mixed language schools. It is not only that it is anti-human towards these children, whether they are Estonian or Russian children, it is also anti-human towards teachers. How do you plan to prepare a teacher frame for such schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U57	Thank you, good questioner! Before the elections, the word 'propaganda' gets very strong meaning and, if you look at our entire education system, very sensitive meaning. After all, we are dealing with minors who are at a very sensitive age. If you notice any kind of propaganda in a negative sense, I'm very much asking you to let me know. I go to schools a lot, and I've never met the homo-propaganda you mentioned. If you notice it, you will report it consistently. I'd appreciate it if you did. It may be in written form, it may be done orally. I'm sure we'll draw conclusions. I have already explained the teaching material you have referred to, which you share on social media. If you're reading this title, are you really talking to the teachers? Firstly, teachers have the right to choose teaching materials. I'm not sure you've seen much of this material in schools. Secondly, as I said, in my family, I talked to the child for a very long time on this subject. The teachers certainly didn't do any propaganda. I'm convinced of that because I know my children's teacher pretty well. Now, you had a question about the teachers. What if there are other language children in class or school? I don't know what model you have. You have some kind of power model. Today we have a considerable number of Estonian-language schools, where at times a third of children, sometimes even more than children with other home-language languages, are studying. Today, they are no longer just Russian children, there are families of very different backgrounds. If teachers need support in this regard, there are different training courses with which we try to support them. There are sometimes separate programmes to strengthen language skills. I'm not sure what an experiment is for you, but I'm sure there will be no experiments on our children at national level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U58	Mart Helme, the point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Even ten years ago, I have been giving lessons at a school where there were three to five Russian - speaking children in classes. It's called assimilation. This experiment, which you are preparing, maybe I have been misinformed through the press, means that there are parallel Estonian and Russian classes under the roof of the same school, which is completely different. We know that our teachers are getting older, many are retiring, and there is already a shortage of teachers, not least because of wages. What happens, then, to young teachers who have already grown in the Republic of Estonia who do not speak Russian or Estonian and who go to work in these bilingual schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U60	Maybe I won't be able to give you a complete overview in this two minutes, but we have a number of examples in the education system. I'm about to get seven or eight schools where it's been done like this for more than ten years. Kehra and Kunda, for example, are the first to come to me, but there are also many in many county centres where the number of Russian residents remains very low and they join one school or another. Such transitions have taken place in Viljandi, Paide and many other places. I don't see any experiment there. Of course, there will be a period of transition with Russian-speaking classes and Estonian-speaking classes. Teachers meet in the teachers' room. I believe that our teachers are very able to learn: they still start to communicate very quickly in very smooth Estonian. They learn the language quickly and complement themselves. I saw in detail how it happened in the municipality of Anija in Kehra. I suggest you pay them a visit. This transition took place in a discussed and very calm manner. So if that's what you're worried about, I'd say I'd stick to the pace of this peaceful community. The changes have actually taken place relatively quickly. If you're wondering if we're going to do anything forcefully, nationally, then the only proposal we've had, and with which we're really going, is training in kindergarten. As you know, there are usually two teachers in the kindergarten group, but we offer a third teacher there. For the period of study, we offer to one teacher, supplementing the local government's payroll fund, in groups where there is no immersion or any other intensive Estonian language learning methodology. We would like there not only to be a study of the Estonian language, but also games and other activities in Estonian. And I also do not consider this to be an experiment because there are enough scientific studies to suggest that this approach really works.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U61	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U62	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I think you're deliberately confusing things here right now, talking about some small places or even Viljandi, where there is a clear majority of the Estonian nation. There was simply an inevitable closure of Russian schools, and that was where the process could be smooth. We are still talking about the large cities of Northern Estonia, where the population is divided in half or even to the detriment of Estonians. If we put Estonian and Russian children together in such places, this is a very heavy burden for Estonian children. I am also a member of the Tallinn Council. Last year, the city of Tallinn allocated 11000 euros to teachers for teaching Estonian language. This was the huge gesture with which the city of Tallinn promotes teaching the Estonian language. The Centre Party is talking about it, but it's not a cover. Can't you see the problem that there may also be conflicts on national soil?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U63	Thank you. There were a lot of questions mixed up. I'm trying to guess which example you're talking about. Probably the only example I can find right now is Jõhvi State High School. The children of Estonian and Russian families study at Jõhvi State Gymnasium. I don't know exactly how many different nations there are. I've been there many times. Some subjects are studied in Estonian, the second part in Russian and the upper secondary school are studied on a course basis. Again, no human trials I've seen there have not been, on the contrary, children work in parallel in both languages. And that is what we all want here together, that the Russian or other native-language children who leave this school have learned a good Estonian language. That's why they learn some subjects in Estonian. As the school is coursework-based, they can study their favourite subjects and at times also choose whether to take one or another subject in Estonian or Russian. And there are also courses where teachers are looking for opportunities in cooperation, for example working in parallel in two languages so that the child can experience both one and the other. As far as language learning is concerned, I assure you, although I am not familiar with all the decisions of the Tallinn City Council, that much more than 11000 euros are allocated nationally for language learning by teachers and kindergarten teachers. There are quite a few million that we share every year. This year, too, we allocated money for teaching the Estonian language of teachers and, in particular, for kindergarten teachers. We just finished a round of hundreds of teachers who added. We have created favourable conditions for extending language learning to teachers as well. Maybe the council hasn't discussed it in detail. I'd be happy to introduce them to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U65	Asks Aivar Sõerd, answers the Prime Minister's role as Minister of Culture Indrek Saar. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U66	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, We briefly addressed the issue of alcohol policy under another question, but since the situation is so serious, this problem still needs to be addressed. It's not just that tens and hundreds of millions of tax revenues are moving away from this thing with very negative effects. Alcohol consumption per capita, which has been falling for years, has now turned to an increase. Given Latvia's capacity and the fact that this stuff is cheaper than we had before the rise in excise duty, alcohol has become relatively cheaper for people. And to blame the previous governments is not productive, because in 2017 your government increased excise duties. If you were discussing this issue in the government, what are you hoping for? I don't think you're gonna accept this border trade, and it's clear that it won't solve itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U67	Thank you for your question. I absolutely agree with you: alcohol is serious. Although drinking alcohol can often make people more entertained, its effects can be very serious for society and for the individual. I believe that the majority of Estonian governments have therefore tried, for their part, not to create a situation where alcohol becomes more easily accessible to people. I don't want to blame any previous government, I've been involved in some of them and made mistakes with them. We made a mistake in predicting what direction human consumption will take and how border trade will grow. The government acknowledges that we made a mistake and responds to it. I think that this is a perfectly adequate behaviour, and I hope that governments will continue to do so in the future, because not all forecasts may always be accurate. In the current situation, the government has decided that the increase in alcohol excise duty scheduled for the following year will be avoided. At the level of the law, the increase in excise duties on alcohol in 2020 is also excluded. And this year's increase was reduced by half. We very much hope that this does not mean that people's drinking alcohol will increase exponentially.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U68	Honourable Riigikogu! Now it's time for Aivar Sõerd to ask, but the minister wouldn't be able to answer. Thank you, members of the Government of the Republic! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U69	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the second working week session on Wednesday. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture wishes to deliver two drafts. Although Jüripäev is still far away, important movements have been observed in the Riigikogu and the periphery of this movement also concerns the areas of work of the Riigikogu. Following the departure of Igor Gräzin from Parliament, a member of the Council of the National Library must be filled with a representative of Parliament. Since Toomas Väinaste has also resigned from the same institution, two new members must be appointed. The Cultural Commission gives a draft to the proceedings, according to which Yoko Alender and Aadu Must should become members of the National Library Council. We have another draft on similar movements, which concerns the mandate of a member of the National Opera. Due to the end of the term of office of Martin Repinski Riigikogu member, the Committee on Culture proposes the appointment of Toomas Väinaste as a member of the National Opera Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U71	I have adopted two drafts. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we take them into procedure. Incoming check, please! Currently 81 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U72	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's continue. On the agenda of this week, we first have draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, 657. The bill was interrupted yesterday. It was interrupted at the place where the waitress began to answer the vigilante's questions, but no one had time to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U73	Okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U74	Peter Ernits registered as a questioner last day. Please, a question for the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U75	Good manager! Good colleague! I'm glad I remembered my question. But I'm gonna start by saying that I want to thank you first. In fact, when presenting such drafts, you should do as you do, that everyone understands that there is no need to be such a round. So thank you! You told me yesterday that this was the same bill for the release of psychiatrists, that the insane doctors wouldn't have to give them any more empty evidence. But in special care homes, I estimate that there are just under 3,000 of these people, and as far as I know, they stay there for quite a while. How much is this turnover, really? If there are 3,000 people who have to be sent to a shrink every year, how many of these psychiatrists should actually...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U77	...to be so you don't have to do something like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U78	Wait a minute, Tiina Kangro! Honourable Riigikogu, please respect the questioner and the answerer so you can hear what they say! Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U79	Thank you. Well, it's, uh, a little hard to answer to that question, in the sense that this statement, like people in special care homes should visit a psychiatrist every year, doesn't hold up at all. I'm sure it's not like that. In the course of the proceedings, there was talk about the fact that a psychiatrist's certificate has so far been required to obtain a special care home or special care service, where the psychiatrist states that this person must receive this kind of service, or that he must go to such a place and receive this kind of help. This transcends the competence of a psychiatrist in every way, because a psychiatrist has no contact with many people in special care, because they often have no psychiatric problems, for example, they have only an intellectual disability, and they are perfectly capable of living without any medical intervention to the extent possible. It is not true that all residents must visit a psychiatrist every year. This concerns those people who do not yet receive this service, but would like to have it, or they need it. They have had to continue until the end of the year to bring evidence from a psychiatrist, which is often just such a fabricated paper, or have this EUR 256 rehabilitation plan made so that five rehabilitation specialists can again do a job that is not really necessary to formalise the plan, which states that we see that this person must go to a special care home and receive such or such a service there. But I realized that the point of your question was how much money might be released, or how much is the cost of having psychiatrists dealt with these people in the course of this so-called unnecessary activity. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal summarises that if we take off the obligation that people should go from the psychiatrist to bring this empty evidence, the health insurance fund could miss a cost of about EUR 50000 per year. This, of course, does not mean that the money is hanging somewhere and can be used for other purposes. The money will still be included in these costs. We all know how difficult it is to get to a psychiatrist in Estonia. If you have tried or know someone who has tried to get time from the reception desk, you know that most of the answer is that the waiting time is six months and can't be registered from there. As I mentioned yesterday, in the last crisis, people who often do not have a very good economic situation must run to a private doctor. Maybe they can get in there with money to get that proof. Now, if, for $50,000, there are no forced visits to psychiatrists, then just for the same money, other people will probably be able to get to a psychiatrist's appointment a little easier. I also mention that there are over 40,000 people with mental health problems who have been registered to have used health care through the Health Insurance Fund in Estonia. Of course, they are not all the target groups for special care; most of them, however, can live their daily lives with less help. But we have an extreme need for psychiatrists. After all, the problem is that in Estonia, child psychiatrists have to be hunted down with a matchfire. This stone must be thrown into our university education locker garden.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U80	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U81	Thank you. I'll keep going. $50,000 is quite a lot of money. But you still didn't answer me how many visits there are, as they say, empty, formal pumagas, if you use the Russian word. What do you get for EUR 50000 a year, or how much does one of these blank, formal papers actually cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U82	This is also included in the explanatory memorandum. I'm not going to scratch the paperwork right now. About 2500 psychiatric visits to Estonia were to be held annually. As we know, according to the health fund's price list, this visit is the cheapest medical visit. When a person goes to a doctor at a particular time, he sits in the office a little bit and says what he needs, the psychiatrist formalises it, in most cases he does not follow any additional visits or treatments. As I recall, the cost of one visit is around EUR 20.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U83	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U85	I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 657 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U86	The first reading of the draft Act amending the Law of the Official Journal initiated by the Government of the Republic begins next. Initiator waitress Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U87	Honorable House of Highness! Chairman of the Riigikogu! People's representatives! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Law of the Official Journal to Parliament for discussion and decision. The purpose of this draft is to foresee as an amendment to the publication order in the State's Official Journal that the task of drawing up the full texts of the ministerial regulations drawn up so far by the Ministries will be entrusted to the Ministry of Justice and the volume of printing of the original texts published in the State's Official Journal will be reduced. So far, according to the Law of the National Gazette, the full text of the Ministerial Regulations has been prepared by all ministries individually, with the amendment exempting ministries from the obligation to prepare and submit these complete texts for publication. I mean, all ministries dealt with seping and tweeting their entire texts. The Ministry of Justice, as Head of State's Official Journal, understands that it is reasonable to centralise it so-called to be dealt with by the Ministry of Justice, even though it is not necessary to do so in all ministries. This will remove the administrative burden. In the Ministry, different officials prepare complete texts alongside other tasks and this is simply not optimal solutions. The second amendment is the termination of the preservation of paper printouts of the original texts published in the Official Journal of the State. When the Law of the National Official Journal was adopted, the purpose of keeping the original texts on paper was to provide additional certainty and, where necessary, to enable the accuracy of the publication to be verified if this proves impossible by electronic means. However, within seven years, if the National Journal has been issued only electronically, there has never been a need to check published acts in paper publications. In the information system of the National Journal, all the original texts communicated by the Actors for publication are stored digitally. This entire information system is multiple backups and protected. It is important to point out that the printing and storage of these non-laws, printouts of laws, additional or less, lower acts do not actually guarantee the possibility of restoring the law applicable on their basis if we imagine that the whole internet or the possibility of electronic storage of things will be closed, as the acts are frequently amended and changes are not recorded on the basis of paper-based complete texts. In other words, since the original texts started to be stored as paper prints only since 2010, many original texts stored on paper change acts that are already in the electronic State Gazette, so paper-based substantive validity calculations are not possible today either. This, in turn, will result in a slightly less administrative burden once again. The third amendment provided for in the draft is to waive the requirement to re-submit the entire act when seeking correction by the actor. Sometimes the error is only a character and it is therefore unreasonable to require the whole act to be re-submitted. In the Official Journal of the State, everything arising from the application for correction of the act is already recorded and, in accordance with the law, an error correction note is inserted after the corrected provision of the act, together with the recital and the moment of correction. These were changes that should reduce the burden on the rest of the public sector and clearly place this task on the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice does not apply for any extra money in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U88	Questions for the waitress. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U89	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Since I personally lack the experience of drawing up the full texts of the regulations, I do not understand the exact working arrangements from the explanatory memorandum. I understand that regulations are quite technical, and they are more specific about practice. Does this bill mean that the legal entity will automatically go to the Ministry of Justice, or will the Ministry of Justice do it itself, and the Ministry of Justice will retain the technical "upload" in the State's Official Journal? It is incomprehensible what kind of practice should begin to develop here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U90	I'm sorry if the wording is inaccurate. No, the point is that a substantive decision to amend or maintain in this regulation is still taken by the ministries of industry. Let us imagine changing one regulation, I don't know, into one section of the Treasury or the State Accountancy Regulation, into one section of this procedure. It is still written by the respective Ministry, with this example supposedly the Ministry of Finance. But we have created the situation that we can monitor online what law applies. In fact, we are talking about this so-called fingering that with scissors, figuratively speaking, cut the piece out and then paste the new text to make it clear what the applicable law is. Because sometimes when you read the National Journal on the Internet, you have to click on the top hole to see what the current act is, otherwise you can easily trim.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U91	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The storage of paper printouts of the original texts published in the Official Journal of the State shall be discontinued. So what does that mean now? Will the original texts still be stored in a single copy of the paper, or will everything now only be digitally preserved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U93	Thank you. In fact, the original texts of the laws are retained in printout according to this proposal; the preservation of the original texts of the lower-level acts is terminated under this proposal. In itself, as I emphasised, there may always be a legitimate question, but what happens if, I don't know, electricity runs out and life stops. I stressed in this line of reasoning, which has also been expressed here, that we do not have a situation today where we can restore the existing law on their basis, because these regulations and procedures have constantly changed and the original texts were not maintained in this form before 2010. Let us imagine that the end of history, some kind of meteorite has fallen on earth (we hope not to fall), and then we begin to restore our national legal order. In fact, it is not possible to do so today either. In essence, we literally have a room full of these materials, in itself the law requires them to be preserved. For seven years, once this requirement has been in place, there has been no need to go through the rooms and compare it on paper and on the Internet. That was the answer. I actually had the same questions when the officials prepared this draft, that if this meteor crisis happened, how would we restore justice? The confirmation was on implementing legislation that, even before the fall of this meteorite, it is actually impossible in practice to produce this photograph. In the case of laws, this option exists, the laws are kept on paper. But it has, I think, first and foremost psychological meaning that we have all Estonian laws in physical form, we can go, take and touch them. But I imagine that if we had to hope that it would never happen to face this meteor, then there is probably a risk that physically the papers might not be best protected. Copies of the electronic State Gazette are known to be backed up and preserved for security reasons, they are located in several spatial locations, right, including outside the Estonian space. In the modern digital space, their preservation must still be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U94	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Justice! My question concerns the explanatory notes, because when the law is drawn up, it can inevitably become very important at some point in the explanatory memorandum. Are and if so, what changes are planned to be made to keep the explanatory notes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U96	Thank you. I have to admit, it's an intelligent, skilful question. I am not sure if there is an answer in the explanatory memorandum to this particular law. However, the Law of the State Gazette does not speak of the explanatory notes either way or otherwise. There is no obligation to maintain explanatory notes for those implementing acts. The explanatory notes are certainly part of the interpretation; they are available electronically. Honestly, I don't know. I think the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will archive these so-called original statements when we are talking about a paper image. The explanatory notes in the current law have not actually been amended to the organic part of the State Gazette. It could in itself be worth considering in the future to link it to explanatory notes in order to facilitate the lives of consumers. We have done what is very important in the State's Official Journal and for which lawyers, judges and prosecutors are very grateful, it is that there are now cross-links in legislation concerning judgments or the practice of the Supreme Court. But the explanatory notes, I think, are a very worth considering idea for further development of the State Gazette.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U97	Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Helmut Hallemaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U98	Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! Dear fellow men of the Riigikogu! I like this new communication initiative very much, but yet I would and I was now centre-centrically conservative. Now to the point. And the matter itself is short. The draft law amending the Law of the State Gazette was under discussion in the Constitutional Committee on 10 September. The government presented it on 11 June. According to my memory, at least in the last two years, there has been no other such drafts that do not create any protocol questions in the Commission, going through this in the Commission. The Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, took part in the debate in the committee, who spoke very thoroughly and also simply and logically about what he was now speaking on the board. Jüri Heinla, Head of the Office of the Official Journal of the State of the same Ministry, also participated. What is important here is what we have not noticed so much in real life, even though those who sit in this hall, or who also carry out legislative activities in the municipality, use very much of these State Journals, that the National Journal has been electronic since 2010 and that it is not published on paper. These changes will certainly significantly reduce red tape. During this eight-year period, as the Minister has already said here, no printouts have ever been needed for the acts of ministries and even lower collections; they have not been used. Moreover, they are all stored electronically, this whole procedure is secured and the drafts are duplicated or copied. On paper, the publishers of the texts of the legislation keep with them. We finally made decisions. All of them were made in consensus. This consensus was borne by Hanno Pevkur, Helmut Hallemaa, Jüri Adams, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb, Peep Aru and Tiit Terik. These procedural decisions were: to send the draft to today's agenda (today it is on the agenda), to close the first reading, to set ten working days, i.e. 3 October at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint a rapporteur before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U99	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? Thank you, Helmut Hallemaa! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of Bill 659 is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 3 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U100	First reading of Bill 679 of the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Initiator waitress Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U101	High House! Honourable President of Parliament! Good people's representatives! The Government of the Republic has submitted a new framework law on personal data protection to Parliament's proceedings. There is really no point in stressing the importance of this legislation in ensuring the privacy of Estonian people. Let me stress once again that one thing is that in today's world, where businesses are able to process 'big data' thoroughly, it is important to keep in mind and protect people's privacy rights. Secondly, this data protection reform is also a prerequisite for a better realisation of the European Digital Single Market. The third aspect, which is very important, is that it is largely favourable for supranational operators, since, before the regulation came into force at the time, less or more detailed regulations had been in place in all Member States under the European Union Data Protection Directive, but now, under this directly applicable regulation, businesses are able to set up a single data protection platform for themselves on personal data and to do business across Europe, without fearing that there would be a huge accident somewhere because of the conflict with the law of third European Union Member States. As we know, the first attempt to deal with this draft here was an important debate. It was because the Government of the Republic has withdrawn this bill. We have now given it again to Parliament with an amendment. Literally, one word has changed, or one word has been left out, that word is "overweight." However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also made a number of changes during its work. These amendments are included in this draft or in this text which has been submitted to Parliament for discussion. This text is then enriched by the 'opinion' of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the one word that has been removed has created great controversy over freedom of the press and the protection of fundamental rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U102	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U103	Thank you! Good Minister of Justice! It is true that nothing else in this draft has changed, except that one word has been omitted from the earlier text over which the debate was held. I am therefore asking, and also considering what the Chancellor of Justice said yesterday, who recalled a little about the history of this provision, about where it came from, and about Austrian law. In the meantime, have you suddenly been able to gather a little more information about what the right balance is between the two things that the Chancellor of Justice pointed out yesterday: the right of a person to know that no information is disclosed in the public media, and the public interest or public interest to disclose that information? Perhaps, however, it is worth considering that the term 'overweight' in today's law could be replaced by another form, but some reasonable limit could still remain in law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U104	Thank you. In other words, this obligation of proportionality in violating privacy is still on the press, both according to the current Personal Data Protection Act and the Bill. Indeed, Article 85 of the general regulation provides for the obligation for Member States to establish national rules to balance the right to privacy and freedom of expression and information. The Government of the Republic has proposed this balance in this form. To be honest, as I did here in June, this debate was said, that the centre of gravity of the controversy became very high-level ideology, perhaps came out of a formal legal debate around this concept. In itself, the obligation to consider the existence or non-existent proportionality of this concept should in no way be set aside or biased in one direction or another. But this choice has been made by the government so that you have no less hesitation or doubt, as if the government's urge was to tighten freedom of expression by unreasonably restricting freedom of the press. The truth is that the General Data Protection Regulation will lead to additional safeguards for privacy rights and more extensively, more invasively than the Personal Data Protection Directive in force so far allowed. To tell you the truth, last week I accidentally got a finger that the Riigikogu Development Monitoring Centre made a little statement. This concerned the concept of whether or not there is dominance. In essence, this advisor, the competent, the practical advisor, also came to the conclusion that in itself this concept, the word there, should not be in any way essential in shaping the practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U105	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U106	Let's continue this debate a little bit. Surely the current law has not prevented the press from announcing all interesting and less interesting things to the Estonian public. I may ask in this way: how do you assess, given that the purpose of the Personal Data Protection Act is to protect the data of individuals, the private lives of people, is there more or less protection for the fundamental rights of people by this change, which makes the disclosure of data in the current legal order less effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U107	Thank you. I am of the opinion that, once the text from which this word has been removed enters into force, this new Personal Data Protection Act, which is, in fact, a practical tool of national law for implementing this directly applicable regulation, will certainly be better protected by the right to privacy of individuals. A separate question is, as the good questioner mentioned in the Commission, the introduction of the terms 'person' and 'human'. I think this is a broader concept of civil law. Certainly, the expertise of a good colleague, Jüri Adams, is also grateful in this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U108	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Minister of Justice. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U109	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Personal Data Protection Act is in front of us again. I do assume that this time the Government of the Republic will not withdraw it from the proceedings, otherwise we may have difficulty processing it to the end. But now it's time. It's been a long time. Well, then we'll listen to all the parties, see what they're up against. Above all, this is a concern for journalism organisations. Everyone's invited, everyone's invited. On 10 September, the Riigikogu held a meeting of the Constitutional Committee and the procedural decisions are as follows. The proposal is to conclude the first reading of the draft (in this case we had a consensus) and set the deadline for tabling amendments on 11 October. At 5 p.m. (in this case too, we had a consensus). Minister Reinsalu actually said that the law is now as we have dealt with it, with the improvements that we have put together here. And then this important, or especially important, or sickly, whatever, public interest on this issue, we will certainly find this common understanding between the two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U110	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Marko Pomerants! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of Bill 679 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5 p.m. on 11 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U111	First reading of Bill 650 of the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Initiator waitress Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U112	Honorable House of Highness! Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! This bill amends a large number of Estonian laws. At the same time, 130 laws are amended to bring them into line with the General Data Protection Regulation and the Law Enforcement Authorities Directive. At first glance, it is such an extensive category, but in itself it is not a precedent in the Estonian legal order. In practice, Mr Pevkur referred to this in the Commission, or even in the case of administrative reform, for example, a very large part of the Estonian legal order has been changed. The Personal Data Protection Act, in conjunction with the General Data Protection Regulation, establishes a general framework; however, in the light of specific laws, it may not be detailed enough to solve the problems encountered in implementing specific areas. It is therefore necessary to provide for more precise bases, objectives and scope of processing of personal data in different areas in order for the public authorities to be able to process personal data. As it concerns the protection of the fundamental rights of a person, this cannot, however, simply be delegated by law to lower acts. This draft regulates the protection of personal data in so far as neither the General Data Protection Regulation nor any other legislation is concerned, but where, as I have emphasised, there is a need for legal regulation on the basis of materiality, legal clarity, legal basis and the principle of good administration. The draft concerns in particular the way in which personal data are processed by public authorities. The protection of personal data is part of the fundamental right to the protection of family and private life and of the right of everyone to free self-realisation. This immunity may be intervened only in the cases and in accordance with the procedures laid down by law, in the cases listed exhaustively. Due to the above-mentioned constitutional principles, interference with the freedom of a person's self-realization must be based on the law. The draft law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act deals with the processing of personal data by the public authorities, i.e. its powers of intervention. How did this bill come about? The situation was actually similar to the situation that we have in Estonia with misdemeanours. The Ministry of Justice itself monitors that the 'general dogmatics of penal law' has been taken into account, but specific ministries decide what should be sanctionable and what penalty rate. That's for misdemeanor. Actually, there were two alternatives. Firstly, all ministries would have submitted to Parliament separately these 130 draft laws, the whole wave of laws would have come to the Riigikogu, and then it would have been very difficult to assess whether the ministries that have developed it all have been guided by the general dogmatics of the personal data regulation. The alternative was that the Ministry of Justice took responsibility and we gathered concrete proposals from all ministries resulting from the new regulation on the protection of personal data and, in this context, from the new additional privacy requirements. They were systematised and then considered to be consistent with its dogmatic or purposeful interpretation. There were clearly moments of dispute in the ministries, but an agreement was finally reached on this draft. The starting point for the Ministry of Justice was that only this data processing regime and the requirements that the new Personal Data Protection Regulation will entail will be regulated. Other extraneous issues, in fact, not marginal, but other ideological problems related to public health or other areas of life, should not be regulated in this form, in itself, as our starting point. In fact, only the new rules for the protection of personal data or for the processing of personal data are to be re-established. Different laws were made, these 130s, such changes. The deadlines for the processing of personal data and the archiving and erasure of personal data were specified, the purposes of the processing of personal data were laid down or specified, which helps to protect a person's right to family and privacy by enabling him or her to assess whether his or her personal data is being processed for purpose. At the level of the law, the composition of the personal data processed in the databases was set out or supplemented or amended; the controller of certain databases was changed (e.g. cancer register, water health information system, drug treatment database); the time limit for storing the data was set or limited on the basis of the length of time required for the maintenance of the data for the performance of the statutory tasks. In some cases, the level of introduction of the basic Regulation of the database was changed, while the statutes of several databases will be established by the Minister responsible for the field instead of the Government of the Republic. I also said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that there are actually some questions here. After submitting the draft to Parliament, problems have so-called vitally arisen, but the draft is here in the form it arrived before the summer. I have already sent a warning to inform the Government of the Republic that, probably on some issues, we are asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to consider recasting and amending standards. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is going to have a serious and thorough debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U113	Questions for the Minister. Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U114	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! We now have a situation that, since spring, we have no personal data protection law, there is no implementing law, but there is a European regulation. I asked the Commission and I ask again here how our personal data protection situation and this whole issue have actually worked under European regulation in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U115	In life, he has acted as if life had progressed. This is a very important starting point. Life and creation must not, in fact, stop because of such formalistic procedures. The European General Data Protection Regulation is in force; it is directly applicable throughout the legal area of the European Union, throughout the European continent. Secondly, we also have a valid personal data protection law. These 130 laws, which provide for these narrower procedures in these matters, must be applied in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Regulation. Undoubtedly, in the interests of legal clarity, it cannot be said by itself that let it go like this. It is reasonable, however, to give both operators and data subjects a clear understanding of the law as guidance at the level of the law, and that is the point of this law. The Data Protection Inspectorate, the Ministry of Justice and the respective ministries of the industry will certainly advise all subjects about the right to privacy, if any questions arise as to the scope of the right, according to a specific Estonian law, where it applies or when it becomes overly invasive in the processing of personal data, when it does not comply with the European Personal Data Protection Regulation. So this is actually an extremely substantial change in the legal order. After all, these relationships are similar in different areas of life, but different ministries have very different volumes. I have nothing to blame for the authorities. Indeed, on the basis of this timetable, the ministries completed their work. I guess we just tangled up and asked them to get faster, faster, faster. In itself, it would have made sense if this whole thing had been in the pot when this regulation came into force. But the logic of this work took the ministries time, and now, in the autumn, I believe, it makes sense to discuss it and listen to the stakeholders. These concerns must have been highlighted extensively in the coordination round of this draft. Very many problems arose, not on the basis of how to formulate these new laws or new laws at the level of the regulation, but they wanted to open up independent ideological issues, which in themselves, as is not directly the result of this European Personal Data Protection Regulation, such as the extent to which insurance companies should receive health data, etc. We were based on the fact that we are trying to do this by a minimalist contour, so that we do not drown, wanting to take into account all areas of Estonian life where public authorities process these data or where they are processed in the private sphere. If we had done this in parallel, it would obviously have been years and years. But the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can be a wise, fair and merciful judge in the case of appeals.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U116	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U117	Thank you. Good minister! I believe that you had a slight linguistic slip, that the general regulation of the Council of Europe does not apply to the entire continent of Europe; it is valid in the European Union. I guess that was a glitch. My question goes into the sphere that we have also been approached by the Association of Hospitals with its specific proposal on storage deadlines, which you mentioned in your speech. But the question is a little more general. Have you assessed the impact of the administrative burden on all these recipients? The Hospitals' Association indicates that the National Archives estimates that they need 27 kilometers of shelf space to preserve all of this. Is the administrative burden of implementation appropriate? Funny thing, did the new head of the Data Protection Inspectorate fail to come to work because the administrative burden is too high?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U118	I think it turned out to be quite right. Of course, this law applies to the territory of the European Union, which, in geographical terms, covers both the European land border as a continent and the overseas territories in the form of former colonies. But now, whether the effects have been assessed. The level of impact assessment, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, is the level on which we have clearly received information from the ministries of industry. We did not actually carry out such an external audit on the immediate effects in this area. What did it look like? The Association of Hospitals discussed and jointly assessed these effects with the Ministry of Social Affairs, which must have been a major problem. In the way that the Ministry of Social Affairs communicated these effects, they have also received an explanatory statement. I don't know what to do here in this sense, I admit honestly, to appreciate the presumption that 27 kilometres of these files are needed, and if that is the case, whether it is feasible at all, or whether health care deals only with files instead of treating people. I'm not slipping in there. All I am saying is that a lot of myths have emerged around this personal data protection regulation. We're not alone here. Just as my colleague said that there was a huge scandal in Latvia, it was feared that wedding photos would be banned. I don't know where that wedding problem came from. Well, that kind of thing. In the big picture, however, we have based ourselves on the fact that we have transposed this regulation into a minimalist tour. This law must also be applied in a rational manner. However, I believe that, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the problem of an association of hospitals will certainly be raised again if necessary. I believe it is reasonable to resolve this in fact in the triangle: the Ministry of Justice will assess the compatibility of this matter with the European Personal Data Protection Regulation, the Ministry of Social Affairs will essentially be able to assess these needs and impacts by the Government of the Republic, and thirdly, the representatives of these medical institutions. In addition to these paper packages, the rights of patients should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U119	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Justice! One of the 130 laws being amended is the Health Services Organisation Act. To my great surprise, I have found such a point in the draft that you wish to supplement the Health Services Organisation Act with a chapter on the cross-border data exchange platform for health data. I do not know if I understand something very wrong now, but this week, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we initiated exactly the same legislative amendment, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs. Now we have two very similar, similar changes. One is what we started, and the other is what we read in this bill 650. Does this thing go to speed, which one can do it, or what's behind it? Why do we have two similar changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U121	First of all, the mother change, this so-called copyright, prepared in the Ministry of Social Affairs, naturally belongs to this law, which is currently being debated in this Parliament. I suppose the Ministry of Social Affairs was afraid that the Riigikogu would be handling this data exchange platform thing for a terrible time, but they had some sort of difficulty with it for their own reasons and wanted to make it roll as such a separate bullet. Let us put it this way: obviously, if either, at the will of the Committee on Social Affairs, arrives at adoption, in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the context of the so-called process, I imagine it will be handled, there is no doubt that there is no need for an identical law. In itself, Parliament has the right to adopt the laws already laid down in the existing legal order, but I think it is simply not rational in practical terms. What am I saying? If the Committee on Social Affairs is going to process this first, it certainly makes sense to remove this piece from this bill. I am sure that the heads of the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be able to coordinate their pace of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U122	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U123	Mr. Minister! § 32 of the Bill deals with the amendment of the Penal Code. I once dealt with this law. I understand that paragraph 2 describes the amendment of § 279, which concerns one of the elements of the offence, which is a general part of the Penal Code. Can you, if possible, explain the relationship between such modification and the implementation of personal data protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U124	Thank you. Currently, the Penal Code provides for data protection sanctions in cases where personal data of a particular type are processed against its will, they fall under malicious treatment. Then there are the penalties that are said there. In fact, there's nothing really changed here, just changing terminology. The current Penal Code uses the term 'delicate personal data' and in the future it will be largely covered by the term'special personal data'. In the same way, this definition provides clarification in the second point. As far as this sanction itself or the norm or practice which is intended to be sanctioned is concerned, its nature is unlikely to change.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U125	There are no more questions for the Minister of Justice. Thank you, Urmas Reinsalu! Report from the Commission. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U126	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, There's a bill number 650 in front of you. I very much hope that passion will be less this time than the same number in the draft debate last time. The minister told me the story about getting this bill. Indeed, the 130 laws that are being amended are all recorded in the explanatory memorandum. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already received various referrals. This concerns, for example, parking on private property, the problems of health care providers already mentioned, etc. You can approach them all one by one. For its part, the Commission also addressed the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities and the National Defence Committee. These two areas are somewhat out of the general logic of this draft and these committees, too, with their own keen eyes, could look at it. For my part, I call on all the committees, but above all the secretariats of the committees, to review the regulations in their area. The ministries have put these changes together in good faith, but the foreign eye, in the sense that the fresh eye, once again, will certainly not do any harm in reading. So the individual problems that have come to us, we are going to deal with. There was so much agreement in the Commission on procedural decisions that the first reading of this draft should be closed. The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft proposal could be set at 5 p.m. on 11 October and there was a consensus on it, and that I would be working on this draft on behalf of the Commission, too, there was a common understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U127	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Marko Pomerants! I will open negotiations and give the floor to Mr Adams on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U128	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have introduced a rather successful term for certain types of draft laws, such as 'cobar drafts'. Unfortunately, we have not developed any equally good name for this type of draft legislation, as we have now been given here, which is recognised by the fact that very many laws are being amended or attempted to change here, and the text of the bill is being proposed to amend them in alphabetical order of the titles of the law. This is not the first thing in this Riigikogu. You should all remember that, in the very early days of this composition, we were dealing here with a bill called the draft law on the implementation of the law on partnership. If you remember, it was a bill that looked the same, only with the difference that it was proposed to amend 53 texts of the law, but here it is proposed to amend 130 texts of the law. I have heard that this method has been used in previous years, but I was not able to control it, but it can probably be said with great certainty that it is a record, something like this has never existed in the history of the Estonian Riigikogu. Let's take a look at this text. I couldn't read it, and I don't think anyone's read it. The Minister also admitted in the Commission that it is humanly unfeasible to read everything and to memorize it one by one. I asked a random question here whether he could explain one paragraph. He didn't know that. He was wrong. But it doesn't matter, it's humanly understandable, who could handle such a thing. But at least for me, at that time, the draft law on the implementation of the Law on Cohabitation developed such a picture that the materials in such laws are divided into three very important groups. One group is where it is proposed that the text be amended very long and comprehensively in some very important law in force, in fact, as we usually do with some major legislative amendment. Here the Ministry of Justice has now assumed that these things should go to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and not go to the respective thematic committees. This is an example of § 76 of the draft, where the law on police and border guards, which I know has traditionally been in the area of the Committee on Legal Affairs, is amended very thoroughly. This is § 109, which amends the Health Services Organisation Act, which has always been in the Committee on Social Affairs. By the way, this is a very thorough change in the arms law. I suppose that, if we go through this draft thoroughly, we will find a piece of 30 to 40 pieces of legislative amendment packages here, for which it is important that they are not trivially related to the Personal Data Protection Act, the new directive. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U129	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U130	Then there are certainly such legislative changes as we might call trivial. They change these texts in laws that have historically evolved at times when no personal data protection directives or corresponding laws existed, and it would make sense for them to be repealed in law at the moment and given the power to organise such work either to a minister or to the Data Protection Inspectorate or to do so through government regulations. We have, by the way, Mr Reinsalu on several occasions during this composition to talk about how badly it is necessary to reduce the production volume of non-essential legislative changes in Estonia. We are now seeing that his ministry and he himself are doing the opposite of this call and are increasing the volume of such changes. Then, of course, there are a lot of mischiefs. Ministries have poured things into this package that have absolutely nothing in common with the protection of personal data. For example, I'm now naming the three I found in a fleeting browsing. One is § 37, which amends environmental charges; the Environmental Charges Act has nothing in common with the protection of personal data. § 99, Spatial Data Act, it also has no link. Perhaps the greatest peril is that the last paragraph of this bill, § 130, repeals the current law on excess stock remuneration. This, of course, does not have anything in common with this either. Perhaps it needs to be annulled, maybe not necessary, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I could not decide and no one else could. The first problem is that we are in the same situation as the draft law implementing the cohabitation law at the time. If we do not want to go down in history as a member of the largest classic Riigikogu, we need the sectoral committees to take these matters into consideration and see what is necessary and what is not necessary. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The point of first reading in the Riigikogu is that it is decided whether such a law is necessary at all, and the second thing is whether the proposed draft is suitable for the work. My answer to the first question is 'yes': there is certainly a need to deal with the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act. The second answer is categorically negative: no, this 101-page text put before us is certainly not suitable for this work. So, on behalf of the Free Party Group, I have the honour of handing over to the President of the sitting a proposal that we reject this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U131	There are no further requests to speak. Since a group's proposal to reject the draft law on the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, we will be voting on it very soon, but the Minister will have the floor first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U132	I do not think that this is a responsible proposal. This is not a responsible proposal! This draft concerns the protection of fundamental human rights as an important platform. The idea that the protection of fundamental rights can be organised at random, as the good previous speaker said, may the Data Protection Inspectorate, Minister, some sort of governor, some sort of district secretary, or whoever in the category of fundamental rights is not realistic that something is arbitrarily delegated. The analogy could be that we say that there is no need for a penal code, there could be a governor, it would say who gets 50 lashes, who gets a fine and so on who gets a salt booth, and then, after the problems have arisen, it will be up to itself whether or not the act is punishable at all. That's actually this analogy. I don't think it's just a relevant line of thought. Now the problems in the specific paragraphs that were referred to. I am not going to pretend that, indeed, Jüri has done a very good job, it is worth recognising, but some things, unfortunately, he has not understood correctly, which is not a reproach either, because the work is actually substantial and requires serious deepening. In the case of paragraph 32, of course, it turned out that the term 'delicate personal data' would be replaced by the term'special personal data'. § 130, that is to say, the repeal of the Act on excess stock remuneration. But why do we leave this law to hang up in law when the excess stock premium law also provides for the processing of data? Jüri's appeal that we are going to maintain and repair phantom laws in the Estonian legal order is my common sense reluctant to do so. Estonia has already joined the legal order of the European Union; stockpiling issues have been resolved well or poorly by the judgments of the European Court of Justice. The call for us to leave this law hanging or to start repairing it somehow, I guess, isn't just relevant. I think it makes sense to repeal this law as a whole. We don't need that law, it's phantom law. Similarly, § 99 refers to the Spatial Data Act. This is a repetition rule concerning public information. In fact, this paragraph or provision could also be repealed. I don't think it's worth keeping reparations in the legal order. This is certainly not about cases to which the good speaker mentioned above wished to point out that there is some sort of regulation of total independent legal relations, in order to change them somehow in dynamics, etc. Of course, can it be read as a novel, this prepared bill? Of course, it's not as smooth as a novel. It's impossible to read without looking at the original texts, and that makes tracking difficult. But if we ask whether, in our legal order, we can protect people's fundamental rights more effectively if we do not have it regulated at law level in accordance with the European general regulation on personal data, then my answer is unambiguously no. It is an experiment, it is a provocative experiment, and I hope that the majority of Parliament will not be subject to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, The recent debate once again showed how true the Riigikogu's law of home and working procedures is. First reading means discussing the general principles of the draft law, and we have just heard that. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft 650, but I have the letter signed by the President of the Group, Mr Herkel, in which the Free Party Group proposes to reject the draft law implementing the Law on the Protection of Personal Data initiated by the Government of the Republic. We're going to vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Free Party to reject the draft law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 650. Please take a stand and vote. 10 delegates voted in favour of the proposal, 45 against and no abstentions. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft 650 amendments at 5 p.m. on 11 October, because the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U134	First reading of the draft law amending labour market services and grants initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 641. Mr Riina Sikkuti, Minister of Health and Labour, as a waitress for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws. Six laws will be amended. The main changes are as follows: In the case of employment mediation and temporary agency services, the conditions are changed to make jobs more accessible to people and to encourage employers to have a job. The administrative procedures relating to the registration of unemployed persons and the payment of benefits and allowances shall be updated. Besides these two major changes, there is a whole package of smaller things. I will now give an overview of the changes by subject. First of all, the restrictions on the demand for remuneration for employment mediation will be changed. If an entrepreneur who supplies employment asks the job seeker for a fee for the vacancy and the job seeker does not have the money to pay for it, he or she does not have the opportunity to find a job. It is therefore prohibited under the current Labour Market Services and Benefits Act to charge a person seeking employment for a job. However, there are operators that reclassify it. They say it is not a charge for work, it is a consultation fee or a travel arrangement service, and it is still charged to the job seeker. The Circuit Court did not agree with this explanation or justification of the service providers. The Court has found that employment mediation is a complex of services and charging for individual components would be contrary to the meaning of the law. It is therefore irrelevant how the parties refer to the service, whether or not it is essentially a job agency. The draft now clarifies the definition of job mediation to cover the whole complex and the amendment should reduce the possibility of charging the job seeker for the individual components of the service. The second amendment concerns the demand for remuneration for hiring. In the case of temporary agency work, a contract of employment is concluded with the employee, which agrees that the employee is working for another employer, i.e. the user company. No fee may be charged for the conclusion of a contract of employment. In practice, there have been cases where remuneration is required for placements. This draft expressly states that no remuneration may be charged for hiring out temporary agency workers and for directing the staff member to work. Thirdly, monitoring of job intermediaries and temporary agency agents will be stepped up. The Ministry of Social Affairs is currently monitoring, but this draft makes the Labour Inspectorate the supervisor. While the Labour Inspectorate is already supervising the full implementation of the Employment Contracts Act, the current supervision powers of the Labour Inspectorate are now also being supplemented by those undertakings involved in employment mediation and agency mediation. In fact, concerns and questions are already addressed to the Labour Inspectorate, not only about employment relationships concluded on the basis of a contract of employment, but also concerns about temporary employment and employment mediation. The fourth amendment concerns the exchange of information between the Member States of the European Economic Area. This draft will fulfil the task arising from the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council to extend EURES, the European network of employment services. Currently, there is an unemployment fund in Estonia, but the regulation requires Member States to set up a system by 13 May 2018 at the latest, allowing public, private or third-sector employment services to join the network. Members of the Network shall be entitled to use the EURES logo for the provision of employment services and to participate in the information and training activities of the Network. By becoming a member, an undertaking is required to provide information on job vacancies and persons seeking employment on the EURES portal. Thus, the portal also provides more information about job offers and jobseekers in Estonia, and it improves the ability of employers to find suitable jobs in Europe. Fifthly, the administrative procedure will be updated. Amendments to the Administrative Procedure Act which entered into force on the date of their entry into force. a On 1 February, the regulation of the electronic procedure was also concerned. The provision of electronic legislation is a matter for the organisation of the administrative body, including the administrative body to decide whether to deliver the act electronically or on paper. The draft will make changes to the Administrative Procedure Act at the beginning of this year, as well as similar changes to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Employment Capacity Allowance Act. People now have the opportunity to submit applications to the unemployment fund both electronically through the e-employment fund and more traditionally, by post and at the unemployment fund on the spot. The unemployment fund can now make decisions electronically and deliver them to the person either electronically, by post or on the spot. There are also minor changes. The conditions for recovering the cost of undue labour market services and benefits and insurance benefits include discretion and this is now the result of the Supreme Court's decision. In addition, the regulation of the TÖIS and the outdated labour market service, i.e. the regulation of public work, are repealed. Similar services, such as work exercise and volunteering, are provided by the unemployment fund. Little used and somewhat outdated labour market services, such as public work, will no longer be provided. The draft also provides for the possibility of temporarily using unemployment insurance funds to finance employment-enhancing activities co-financed by European Union funds. So far, there is a right to use unemployment insurance funds to co-finance European Social Fund projects, but now it is extended to those globalisation funds or other sources from which employment-enhancing activities have been funded and maybe financed in the future. This gives an overview of the changes. The law enters into force in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U136	The round of questions will be opened by Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U137	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! There are many of these improvements and there are many references to sections of the law that are amended in one way or another. I am interested in amending the law on gender equality. It says here that § 6 (4) of the Gender Equality Act is amended. Could you explain to us what the real content and purpose of this amendment is?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U138	Thank you for your question. You know, I have to find an answer. I'll get back to you in a little while. We can take the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U139	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that this law changes a lot of nuances concerning employment mediation and all employment relations. However, with this legislative change, how do you ensure that there is no longer any remuneration for hiring and hiring workers? By the way, there are some very interesting examples here that it is disguised with all kinds of price labels. How does this change of law rule out such a situation? There are other reasons besides consulting and traveling and anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U141	Thank you for your question. On the one hand, the concept of employment mediation is more clearly defined and it is quite clear that no remuneration should be charged to the job seeker and to the person directing the temporary agent. In this sense, the scope of justice is clearer, that there are no such possibilities of overturning as has been the case so far. Of course, it doesn't in itself guarantee compliance with the law. In this sense, it is also important to grant the right to supervision to the Labour Inspectorate, who, whether or not in the workplace, supervises the law on employment contracts and safety at work. There is now an additional aspect over which he can be supervised because the law has laid the foundations for this, and there is a monitoring mechanism. Those are the two tools right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U142	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U143	Good manager! Dear waitress, I too have examined this amendment to § 6 (4) of gender equality and, frankly, I do not understand. Now I hear the Minister doesn't understand either. But I'll ask you a simple question. I read here that already on May 1, this network should have been in place. Today is not May, nor is it the first date. What's the holdup?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U144	Initially, there were even more changes to this package. One concerned, for example, discrimination in employment mediation and whether or not to allow automatic filtering on job mediation portals, such as age, gender and native language. These discussions and agreements took time and therefore the draft reached the government in spring. Indeed, before the Riigikogu went on summer holidays, it was not possible to do so. It is a pity that the transposition of European law has been delayed, but hopefully in the autumn we will be able to correct this mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U145	Martin Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U146	Thank you. I would also like to hear the answer to the first question after that, but to my comment, we do not give a damn what the pace of transposition of European law is. We still have to do the business of Estonia. I have another question about this area, that it was about regulating temporary agency workers. This is currently a very burning problem on the Estonian labour market, in particular temporary agency workers from outside the European Union, in principle from Ukraine. Are the changes that we now see in this law somehow restricting or hindering this aspect of temporary agency workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U147	No, this draft still concerns the charging of the job seeker or the agency agent's remuneration from the people he directs to work. The regulation of admission, taxation or compliance with other requirements, such as safety at work, does not really regulate this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U148	No further questions. I thank the Minister for two answers to three questions. Let me remind you that you will have the opportunity to provide further explanations after the negotiations have been concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U149	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U150	Maris Lauri, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will take a look at the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, which took place at the meeting on 11 September. The draft was presented by Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, and by Õie Jõgiste, Adviser to the Employment Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Minister made an overview of the bill, which I will not repeat, because you have just heard it here. The members of the Commission asked questions and discussed the conditions for reducing work capacity allowances. No questions were asked about the other issues in the draft. In the spring, payments related to work and holiday pay were changed in the calculation of the capacity allowance. If the remuneration was paid for several months and the payment was made in one month, the person's income could exceed 90 times the daily rate of the disability allowance. The person could either lose or have been reduced in his or her capacity to work. This draft introduces a similar approach to sickness benefits, i.e. if sickness benefits are received in one month for several months. The Commission raised the question of why no change to sickness benefits was already presented in the spring. A representative of the Ministry replied that the problem was revealed in the summer. The Commission's discussion also concerned the payment of bonuses and bonuses if, for example, at the end of the year, a good work bonus is paid and the result is that the remuneration received exceeds the threshold. The representative of the Ministry considered that a corresponding change, i.e. the allocation of annual prizes to previous months, had to be considered, but explained that this could lead to a reduction in the capacity allowance paid for other months. It was also asked whether it was planned to stop reducing the capacity allowance at all. The Minister replied that there was no such decision and that there were no funds available in the state budget. At the same time, he said that he might have to consider raising the maximum rate. The Commission then took procedural decisions, all of which were taken in a consensual manner. Firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 19 September. Secondly, propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped. Thirdly, set ten working days for the amendments. Fourthly, to appoint Maris Lauri as rapporteur for the Commission. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U152	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U153	Good manager! Good waitress! I come again to Article 6 (4) of the Gender Equality Act. The text is, frankly, difficult to understand, but I ask that if the Minister could not explain what the point is, would a member of the honourable Social Committee be able to say what the content of the amendment to § 6 (4) of the Gender Equality Act is?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U154	Thank you. I am on this board primarily because I am giving an overview of the Commission's work. We did not discuss this issue. But as far as I can see from this text, this is my subjective opinion, this is a terminological specification.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U155	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm reading here that you're still a waitress, not a supervisor. On these drafts, where I have been a co-rapporteur, I have met with the representatives of the ministry and I have also repeatedly asked several questions myself in order to familiarise myself with the issues that may come from the Chamber. But what I'm asking you now is that if you can't distinguish by gender, then either, let's say, parenting allows the employer to make decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U157	Thank you for your question. This thing has been regulated a long time ago. No, you can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U158	No further questions. Dear waitress, thank you. I will open negotiations for the representatives of the political groups, if that is what you want. As this is not the case, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 641. I am looking at the Minister's side, would you like to speak further? [[A voice from the hall.]] You'll answer later, because Martin won't leave. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I will set the deadline for submitting 641 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 October. Dear Maris Lauri, this coincides with what you proposed, you spoke of ten working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U159	Sixth item, First reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 674. Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading is the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The amendments are intended to align the rules for determining the timing of the turnover of the goods and services related to the voucher in the European Union with those in force since 1 January 2019. The need for change was due to different national practices that could lead to double taxation or non-taxation in cross-border voucher transactions. According to the amendment, the turnover will be generated when the voucher is issued if the place of transfer of the goods or services related to the voucher is known and the rate of tax is known. The other principles of VAT accounting remain unchanged. In addition, the VAT regime for cross-border digital services in the European Union will be simplified in accordance with the procedures in force since 1 January 2019. Where an undertaking provides digital services to end-users established in another Member State for a value of up to EUR 10000 per calendar year, it shall be entitled to respect the rules of its country of residence when paying the tax. Under the current rules, the place of supply of digital services is always the place where the final customer is established, so VAT on the service must be calculated according to the rate in force in the recipient country and paid in that country. It is also proposed to amend the conditions for declaring an import VAT return in respect of which the taxable person has the right to declare the VAT due on importation on the VAT return. The requirement that a person's turnover of zero per cent of the total turnover per year should be at least 50% shall be excluded from the terms and conditions. As a new condition, a requirement for a sound business reputation is added. As a result of the amendment, the circle of persons who have the possibility to apply for the right to declare on the VAT return for importation will be extended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U161	Mikhail Stalnukhin will ask his question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Before the end of the Riigikogu's composition, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as we learned yesterday, has 22 other draft laws that come from the Ministry of Finance. From my point of view, as chairman of the committee, it is vital that they are prepared of high quality and, above all, linguistically. Last week, we also discussed a few language issues in the Commission, which I am not going to talk about right now. But I read in the bill: 'the service is provided by a foreign person established in another Member State or having a permanent establishment in another Member State... (This means a person having a permanent establishment in another Member State, M. S.)... who does not have a registered office or a permanent establishment in another Member State. ' Indirectly, I understand what the legislator was trying to say here, but in fact, it is absurd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U163	Thank you. Let us consider and try to be more linguistically correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U164	The second question from Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U165	Thank you. The law is the one thing that maybe somebody will ever appreciate someone's actions. There's gotta be certain parameters on how to do this. If someone formulates a word such as "unblemished" in the law with an impeccable business reputation, it is not mentioned here that he has not performed it, that it, and that it, or it is, according to some definition, the law, one or the other impeccable. It's an adjective that's subjective, which is almost impossible to use. In Russian, the word bezuprechnyi has about 40 synonyms, and these are all words that can be used. I think that the word 'unblemished' has enough synonyms in Estonian as well. Is it really necessary to use such words in the formulation of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U166	Thank you. To date, a better combination of words has not been found, and in practice, tax authorities, for example, use an assessment of the 'unblemished business image'. I don't know what else to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U167	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You explained nicely the nature of the voucher, but at the same time this bill also says that the treatment of this voucher tax has not been harmonised in the European Union and has not been regulated separately in Estonian law. I would ask this question: how far is this harmonisation in the European Union? Do you have any chance to tell me if we're any better than others here or if we're behind?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U169	Thank you. In Estonia, so far, there have been no direct problems with the vouchers that some people know more about in the popular language under the name of the gift card. This procedure coincides with 1 January 2019. The idea is for everyone to understand it in the same way and to tax it together in the European Union. Simply put, there is a single-purpose voucher, which means that we know about taxation and the tax rate. For example, a voucher from a catering establishment that can be used to pay at a particular diner or a shoe shop voucher that is known both to the seller and to the tax rate. And then there is a multipurpose voucher that applies, for example, to a bookstore or pharmacy where goods with different tax rates are sold, i.e. we do not know about taxation or tax rates, as well as a hotel chain voucher that allows to pay in hotels in different countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U170	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U171	Thank you, Minister. Good President! We also mentioned in the Commission that, first of all, it is not a problem in Estonia that needs a legislative solution, and, secondly, it has so far been unregulated in the European Union, which is for each country to decide how or what it is doing. I'm not going to talk about this voucher issue or language right now. However, I had a question in the Commission, and I am asking the same question here. Why must there be pan-European harmonisation on such issues? This is neither necessary nor necessary. I ask for more here: who and when did Estonia give its approval to this directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U172	Thank you. The exact dates and the information on how this approval has come about, I can send you. We must have such decisions through ELAK and, to a large extent, through the government. What was the second question, if I may? I forgot. [[A voice from the hall.]] I think it is largely in the interests of our Estonian people, our entrepreneurs, if we have common rules and this is harmonised. It's as easy for all of us as we want to do cross-border business.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U173	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have heard from the previous speaker here that there have already been linguistic disputes in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but I am still asking. Did the Ministry of Finance, by presenting this bill, try to find an Estonian equivalent to the word 'vaucher'? How a person who now begins to read the law and wants to comply with it must understand a sentence such as 'Multi-purpose voucher is a voucher other than a single-purpose voucher. '? You know, it's embarrassing to read such a bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U175	Thank you. I'm gonna start answering from behind. This question was also in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the answer came from it that there is no better wording, because that is exactly what it is. However, if we are now talking about whether the use of the word 'vaucher' is the best solution, whether we really do not find any better words in Estonian, the drafting of the draft analysed the various options that would convey as clearly as possible the word 'vaucher' used in the official translation of the directive. The same subject was raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which called for a better word to be sought, but no better word was found. The word 'vaucher' does not have an unambiguous counterpart in Estonian, and therefore it was inevitable that we would stick to the word in the draft, which was also used by the lawyer-linguists in the translation of the European Union directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U176	Thank you to the Minister. The chairman of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin, talks about the procedure in the lead committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U177	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, We had this bill twice on the agenda of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 10 and 17 September. On 10 September we listened to the Minister, and there was almost the same text that you listened to a quarter hour ago. Then there was a discussion. All the questions we have discussed have been raised in this Chamber as well. My permanent position is, as I said in the Commission, that when a new word comes into our legal system, the word 'vaucher' instead of 'vaucher', and in this draft law it bears a definite meaning of the term ',' could be an Estonian equivalent. The Ministry of Finance has not been able to find it. Indeed, I asked that an analysis of this word and the sentence read out by my colleague Aru, 'Multi-purpose voucher is a voucher other than a single-purpose voucher, have been carried out by Friday. 'We got the answer, yes, this sentence is very incomprehensible, it's some kind of bullshit, but the word 'wachesher' was answered, that there's no way to see a way to replace it. So there's a problem. On 10 September there was a substantive debate, on 17 September it was on the agenda of the draft law in relation to a letter from the Ministry of Finance proposing a number of options for this sentence, which was already mentioned, and the idea that the word 'vaucher' could not be replaced by anything. Although it is actually a gift card, it could be called that in Estonian. The Commission adopted four decisions: to propose to the Bureau that this draft law be brought to the Chamber by today, 19 September, to conclude the first reading, to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur and to allow 10 days for the time of the amendments, i.e. 3 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U178	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I've also heard the "unspeakable" and I'd like to ask you. We know that a lot of politicians use very strange words, such as 'by the end of the night', 'by the end of the day', or it is the end of the day by evening. Now, which one is the linguistically correct one? But there'll be fashion words, trend words. If it had been written 'unblemished renomee', it would be more understandable to all times what it says. Would that word also, let's say, have meters in place so that it's not a very subjective assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U180	Thank you for your question. I was going to be here later in my second role. However, we did not discuss this in the Commission. I'll come and talk about it in my speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U181	Mr President! Honourable Commission waitress. It was very sympathetic to hear that the Commission paid attention to the word 'vaucher'. However, was the Commission discussing the possibility of replacing this 'vaucher' with 'gift card'?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U182	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U183	There's always a chance. After all, it is possible to send the draft to first reading as already amended. But my opinion is that there will be quite a textual editing here anyway. We will not rush to second reading until this text is in order. I mean, I'm upset about some things, but I didn't start bringing them all up in committee. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U184	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U185	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. I am also upset about a lot of things in this bill, especially this brain-dead instinct to fill all the assholes from Brussels with impeccable zeal. But I have a question from another area. Did I hear right or wrong that decisions were made consensually? I did not think one decision was consensual; the decision to close the reading was not consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U186	Thank you. You can check after the text, the word 'consensus' certainly didn't sound.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U187	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In Europe, with regard to, say, corruption cases and anti-corruption fights, different laws, different concepts of gift cards and vouchers, just along the cultural background. I mean, in the Mediterranean, it can be said that a money card, as such, may also be a gift card, in case it is given, but we in this cultural space are still counting it as a bribe. Was there a discussion about the voucher versus the gift card?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U189	No, it wasn't a debate, but the answer we received on Friday was that the word 'vaucher' had several uses. The point one is, for example, the economic term 'privatisation security in Russia'. Item two, english voucher, guarantee letter, certificate, receipt, discount coupon, discount coupon, gift card. And there's more, it's not that long. Vouchers usually provide goods and services at a more favourable price. It follows from this: preferential coupons provide conventional, more affordable goods and services. The voucher and the discount coupon have been linked to the tuition fee for the word training or, for example, the voucher ensures that the hotel provides accommodation services. I mean, here are examples of how this word is used, but twice the countries... In fact, one time, Russia, and the other time is already English. The analysis you asked about has not been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U190	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. And it is. Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U191	Ladies and gentlemen, We have five and a half months to work. Actually, September, you can say, is as good as over. Yesterday, the Committee on Monetary Affairs had an idea of what other draft laws would come. I mean, there are now three draft laws in it, and there will be 19 more in October-November. Most of them are of great importance, should receive, and most of them have some limited time during which to do so. I am not talking about having a state budget among them, which assumes that we will listen to all the ministers and make a huge contribution to meeting every ministry. The draft laws are made by the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and the committees, i.e. there will be some more. If there are so many drafts, we will, of course, depend on the people who prepare these texts. I don't want to be ashamed of anyone ever asking me... I'm sorry! Thomas, would you give me my file I've already taken, yellow. Thank you very much. I'll read you a few sentences from here. 'paragraph 3 of paragraph 43 shall be amended and worded as follows: 'The taxable person whose establishment or permanent establishment is in Estonia does not apply the special scheme in Estonia or in another Member State where his permanent establishment is situated. ' For a very long time I thought. I thought for a very long time, and I realized what they were going to say. Why is it necessary to write in such a way that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs has to sit for half an hour and think about what content they put in here? What for? The same sentence that I have already quoted today: 'The service is indicated by a foreign person having his seat or permanent establishment in another Member State... ' I mean, he has a permanent establishment there. But keep listening: '... who do not have a seat or a permanent establishment in another Member State. 'Oh, my gosh! It took half an hour, and I'm saying I realized what they were trying to say, I feel like I understand. What, though, must be done by a person who is dependent on that law? What does a lawyer have to do who goes to court with this? Well, that's interesting! I don't know how many dozens of times I've talked about the adjective having no place in the law, adjective being subjective, you can't use it. If you're saying he has to have an impeccable business reputation, I'm asking what kind of sense. In the sense of the European Union or in the sense of China or perhaps in the sense of India? These are very different things. If a person has come from India, what reputation must he have, in the sense of Estonia or in the sense of India? I assure you, these are very different things. Imagine the almost 20 draft laws that still come when I start to think for a little while that they could be of the same text quality... I'm sending this text to the editor, but I have this feeling they're all gonna have to go through with this... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U192	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U193	I think all the drafts, before they come to the Riigikogu, will have to undergo control. I myself write and I know very well that sometimes you write about something that is very well known to you, so you just know the material, but when you read it again, you suddenly realize that the outsider who starts reading it doesn't have the same knowledge. He doesn't understand. Perhaps the people who produce the texts are too big a professional. Maybe they have just forgotten that they do not work for themselves or 101 members of the Riigikogu, but they work for the Estonian people. It must be understandable to people. Maybe they'll start looking at all these things with that look. For God's sake, one more thing, "unblemished." Please explain to me what a reputation is. In a sense, the chairman of the committee is responsible for the things that go out of the committee, come into this Chamber and be accepted. We are here to critically read and correct papers coming from the Ministry. Who are we if we don't? But it would be better if they came from the ministry from the beginning so we had nothing to do there. It's our dream. I'm not gonna let it pass. It's subjective, and there can be no subjective things in law. So another lesson. Given that we have more than 20 procedures ahead of us, I think 25 or 28, let us learn and try to make sure that the papers that come from you are of a slightly better quality. We cannot improve tax receipts; we cannot impose on people one or the other service or goods if they do not want to buy/use it themselves. But to do our job properly, that's what we're capable of. I very much hope that the following documents, which will be received, will be of better quality, also linguistically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U194	The debate that has so far been impeccable continues with Tarmo Kruusimäe from the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U195	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, At the Monday Group meeting, we did not have the full clarity of what the discussion would be like in this Chamber. I also think that the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the group could take a more creative approach here. Maybe it's 'Can't be quiet'. I am responding to a good colleague and, of course, I hope that someday I will also succeed in coming to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where we can debate quite interesting things. But I say one thing: when a young man from India comes to Estonia, he must have an impeccable renome in terms of our culture. This means that in his local community, there in India, he can participate in various Sabbaths that we may not consider acceptable in our own cultural space in connection with the Animal Protection Act or anything. So we measure the people who came here with this. This claim that who resides permanently abroad and does not have his own affairs in other countries is for these lawyers. We are in this difficult situation today, where we have to rule out all the differences, because there has also been no mention of what happens if he participates in somewhere or if he holds a minority shareholding in another country. I'm the last person to talk about philological matters right now, because I can see that most of you here are writing literature with fewer errors than I am. Most of you end the sentence with a point you started. However, I can say that this Euro-Cancel language has led us to the point that, if Märt and I are out there, for example, we will have an accumulated acquisition of information for the purpose of developing competence. So that's, let's say, the definition of the gibberish in the Eurocancellian language. However, I do remember when Professor Marju Lauristin said that the Estonian language has disappeared from our laws and that there could be more understandable talk. My colleague, Peeter Ernits, commended Tiina Kangro for speaking plainly. The law, however, must be made precisely where all possible exceptions are already ruled out, because villains who are not among us in this Chamber, who are outside, are watching, in which case it is possible to bypass the law. And then my favorites come in, lawyers. Now, these are my biggest favorites, because they never lose. What's more, you're gonna go and feel like you've been wronged, then the lawyer's gonna come back: I made a deal, you're a little guilty and you're gonna pay a little bit, but at least all this shit is over. That's why I think all possible cases will be defined exactly. This may come from a few cases in Europe where someone says that in that case he will not go down there, in which case he will go. Of course, young people who come from a school stand are eager and try to write these things because they read our own literature, from which many beautiful and wonderful adjectives have disappeared. Then they may try to test the beautiful Estonian language in some legislation, bringing in some beautiful words that seem beautiful to them. My favorite word is "hovering." In the evenings, I get distracted when I look at the "Actual Camera" and I don't see such an important passage that a bull hasn't been drinking in Võrumaa for three days. What I'm saying is that we can always talk about the fact that a few words make sense to us and some don't. I also want to talk culturally, to answer that part too. In the Mediterranean, it is quite a practice of business culture to do so-called pleasures, which is corruption for us, but for them, perhaps many of our patterns and models of behaviour are too restrictive, which does not allow creative understanding. Remember, we had a money card. Whether the money card is a voucher or something now, but if you gave someone that money card because it was cool doing business with him, then we're in front of a broken trough. I think this voucher could stay, although I think I'd even write the word 'woozer' invalidly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U196	Please! There are no more words. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 674. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 3 October. Today's debate gave the impression that the word 'vaucher' can mean very different things, so I will finish reading the first reading of this draft law and say that there is now a voucher with this reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U197	The seventh item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. To the speaker's desk, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and related amendments to other laws updates the existing regulation. The changes take into account developments in the modern economic environment and information technology, as well as current case law. They also reduce the workload of the Tax and Customs Board and reduce the administrative burden on the taxable person. The proposals of stakeholders and practitioners for better, more effective implementation of the regulation have been taken into account. The draft introduces the possibility of requiring the person who effectively directs the company, who is not registered in the register as a member of the management board, to recover the tax debt of the company intentionally created by a liability decision. The current law does not allow the actual manager of the association to recover the debt he has incurred in the course of the liability procedure. It is in the interests of the state to stand up for a fair and transparent competitive environment. Unfair taxpayers should not get unjustified tax savings from honest taxpayers through illegal activities. It is therefore necessary to establish rules that prevent unfair taxpayers from taking advantage of the bottlenecks in the tax system and from escaping personal liability where tax losses have been caused intentionally. The differences between audit and case-by-case checks will be abolished, instead of introducing a uniform tax control. There is no practical need for two types of tax controls and basically nothing will change for the taxpayer. The tax authority is already carrying out the procedure in compliance with the increased obligation to explain and state reasons. Therefore, the harmonisation of these two types of controls is based on the enhanced standard in force for the revision to ensure the protection of taxpayers' rights. The composition of the data of the employment register will be increased from the law to the Government of the Republic's regulation, as according to the current procedure, the law must be amended every time to change the composition of the employment register's data. This prevents the response to more urgent change needs for data collection. The data in the employment register shall be used by the different authorities for the performance of their tasks. The tax authority shall be empowered to draw up automatic decisions and to provide a legal basis for the use of the electronic seal. This will help to reduce the time spent on routine and firmly regulated tasks and speed up the entire tax process. This is done by the computer system on the basis of the criteria laid down by law. The tax authority, the official, will retain control and overview of the decisions to be taken and the possibility to intervene in the decision-making process generated by the computer program. The draft clarifies the concept of tax debt and provides the taxpayer with some relief from interest obligations. In order to avoid double interpretation, a clarification is added that interest calculated on the amount recovered or unduly set off can be treated as a tax debt. The tax authority shall not disclose any tax interest until it is determined by an administrative act. This reduces the risk that a taxpayer might be placed on the list of tax debtors due to a small tax debt. From now on, the euro will be rounded to the nearest euro instead of the accuracy of the tax-interest cent. The taxpayer shall also be given the possibility to request, in duly justified exceptional cases, a reduction in the rate of tax interest in the event of a deferral, in the light of the time when the tax debt was incurred. Taxpayers are entitled to consider deferred tax arrears as business-related expenses from which the company does not have to pay income tax. This reduces the total cost of legitimate taxpayer interest. If the timetable is not complied with, the tax debt shall be paid under normal conditions. It also complements the possibility that tax interest may be disregarded due to circumstances arising from the tax authorities. These circumstances may be due both to the activities of the tax authorities and to inaction, such as undue delay in the tax procedure. Public data will be included, which will be reflected in the debt information, such as fines, coercion, replacement costs. The principle that, from 2019 onwards, a person no longer has to receive a separate tax return when submitting a tax return electronically is amended. The tax notification shall be deemed to have been delivered by means of an electronic message after validation of the declaration. The person is able to access the tax accounts at any time in the MTA e-services environment. The arrangements for the collection of the tax liability entered into by the contract shall be amended. In the future, such procedural matters will be settled in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Tax Administration Act and disputes will be settled by the Administrative Court. In the future, the tax authority will also have the right to recover the enforcement costs of pre-retention, in the same way as other enforcement costs. In the area of cross-border exchange of information, the regulation against infringements concerning transactions and operations intended to circumvent the provision of information to the tax authorities will be strengthened. The law introduces a legal basis under which the Tax and Customs Board can conclude agreements on the exchange of information on the country-by-country report. This concerns, in particular, communication with countries with which information cannot be exchanged under a multilateral agreement. The list of financial accounts excluded from reporting is limited to bring it into line with the OECD conclusions on the assessment of the exchange of information. Information on cases concerning the pay-out period of supplementary funded pension contracts will also need to be exchanged in the future. The draft amends the Environmental Charges Act, the Pensions Act, the Tax Exchange Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act in so far as it is necessary. The draft is designed as a law to enforce in general order. However, there are changes which require a longer period of time to be introduced, and therefore a number of elements are envisaged to enter into force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U199	Krista Aru opens the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The draft law also envisages a number of changes to the data provided in the employment register. What is this amount of added data? How big are these changes anyway? Will the administrative burden on businesses now be increased and increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U201	Thank you. The employment register is a sub-register of the register of taxable persons, which is kept for the purposes of ensuring the performance of the tasks assigned by law to the Tax and Customs Board, the Labour Inspectorate, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Social Insurance Board and the Police and Border Guard Board. The person allowing work is obliged to register in the register of employment in the future, other than the data currently provided, other data relating to the work, such as the job title and the location of the workplace. Yes, indeed, it is a small additional burden, but a change is certainly necessary, as it will facilitate the production of statistics and will contribute to its accuracy in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U202	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U203	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. When this bill becomes a law, it is as if you can get a better overview of the tax behaviour of Estonian people, all kinds of technological solutions provide this opportunity both in time and perhaps in the sense of a particular person. But my question is this: if this payment behaviour is so well described because of this information base, what impact will it have on the budget receipts, the revenue side? Is that calculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U204	Thank you. It does not explicitly take into account how much this legislative amendment will bring to the benefit. These are, in principle, the necessary decisions to ensure that, in future, the tax behaviour of our companies will be even more law-abiding and transparent. This automation will certainly help to reduce pointless work and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U205	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U206	Thank you. The last part of your answer gives you reason to ask for another supplementary question. In order to reduce pointless bureaucracy, it is very positive in every way. Does this also mean that a certain number of people will be left with less work or without work in your ministry or the Tax and Customs Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U207	Thank you. These automatic decisions mean that the national tax administrator may, as an automatic administrative act and as a document, issue orders for the submission of a declaration and for the correction of any deficiencies therein, in addition to any decisions, claims and tax returns. This amendment certainly does not concern the decisions to be made on taxes; they cannot be automatically taken by the authorities in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U208	Thank you very much to the Minister. The presentation of the commission is made by Dmitri Dmitriev, Member of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U209	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting on 10 September. At the same time, Toomas Tõniste, Minister of Finance, represented the initiator of the bill. As a representative of the Commission, I would like to draw attention to two aspects that were asked about in the Commission and which Members were concerned about. First, it asked whether the possibility given to the Tax and Customs Board to identify the actual manager and to provide additional opportunities to the tax authorities would not undermine the rights of law-abiding taxpayers and how, for example, the Tax and Customs Board could perform the tasks assigned to the draft without the use of surveillance activities. We have received a reply that the Tax and Customs Board has established that it is not possible to prosecute the real managers of the company quickly enough to act in accordance with the current regulation. According to common practice, insolvent people are assigned to the management of non-taxating companies, but in fact the company is run by third parties at the same time. The aim is to find out as soon as possible who is involved in tax fraud. According to the Law of Obligations Act, the task is initially to establish the will of the actual manager and, in accordance with the principles of the liability procedure, to settle the liability of the actual manager. The Tax and Customs Board is already using the same methods to identify the intent and liability of the members of the Board. The draft extends the possibilities for the MTA to use exactly the same procedure to identify the will and responsibility of real drivers. For example, bank transfers or other documents are used when talking about evidence. The second aspect we talked about in the Commission. The amendments create the possibility to consider tax interest as business-related expenditure when the tax debt is deferred. The Commission raised the issue that the amendment would motivate businesses to defer their tax debt even if there was an opportunity to pay it right away. The Ministry explained that the aim is in fact to motivate decent entrepreneurs to pass on tax debts. Companies in short-term default then have the opportunity to ask for a reduction in the interest rate on the tax debt. And allowing tax debt to be deferred is a discretionary decision of the tax authorities, and there is also revenue for the company from the deferral. Members of the Commission pointed out that there could be some kind of risk of corruption here. In conclusion, there were no more substantive questions or observations. The Commission made its procedural decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 19 September, i.e. today, to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments 10 days, i.e. the proposals must be submitted by 5.15 p.m. by 3 October at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-19_U210	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. The political groups do not want this. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 675. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 3 October. Tomorrow at 10:00, I'll meet you in this very hall. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 4:22 p.m.
