ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Working week 6 of the VIIIth plenary session. Who wants to hand over drafts and inquiries? Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U2	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The three of us are honoured to present this year's municipal year's award. Its winner was confirmed by the Riigikogu, who passed the law that October 1 is the day of the municipality. Congratulations, everybody! [[Handing over the souvenir. Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U3	The Bureau shall explain whether this is a draft or an inquiry. Anyway, thank you. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, a draft law amending the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law, the Administrative Cooperation Act and the State Fees Act. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals. Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the processing of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U5	There's no more calls. I have adopted two drafts and a one-year award. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we will proceed with them. Incoming check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the sixth working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there was no one against, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U6	Our first item on the agenda is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Arno Sild, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Peeter Ernits. On behalf of the heirs, Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U7	Dear Chairman, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Mr. Minister Tarmo Tamm! Allow me, on behalf of eight members of the Riigikogu, to discuss the question of the Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tammele about inadequate measures to deal with drought damage. We know that in the recent past, farmers are facing a number of difficult problems. There was a swine plague, then there was a milk price problem, when hundreds of dairy cows were transported to other European countries or a meat combinate, but at the top of everything, you can say, our farmers were born this year because of the long-term drought of the year. This year's drought caused great damage. Total harvests are a third smaller, cereal yields are 39% lower than in the previous year, hay yields are half the average for many years. A large proportion of newly planted grasslands have been destroyed, a third of livestock farmers have been stocked with less than half of the feed needed, while 68% of livestock farmers have to buy more feed, but its price keeps rising. Nearly 75% of producers end the year at a loss, with a third having problems with the implementation of contractual measures. The Government of the Republic allocated some 20 million sums to farmers from the reserve to compensate for losses, but not for outstanding loans, but for repayable loans. However, compared to the orders of magnitude, according to the calculations of the Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, Estonian farmers suffered some 150 million losses due to the drought of this year, so the 20 million that the Government of the Republic separated will certainly not continue. That is why we appeal to the Minister of Rural Affairs and, according to § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, we ask him to respond to an inquiry. Here are four questions that I am not going to read out in terms of saving time, as the Minister himself will explain these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U8	The question is answered by Minister Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U9	President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the question. Question one. Why has the government not declared an emergency or natural disaster and given farmers a helping hand? The current Emergency Act does not provide for the possibility of declaring an emergency situation due to drought. According to the law, an emergency is an event or a chain of events or a disruption of vital services that threatens the life or health of many people, causes serious material damage, serious damage to the environment or serious and widespread disruption to the continuity of vital services, requiring rapid concerted action by several institutions or persons involved, implementing different management arrangements and involving significantly more persons and resources than usual. In order to address the emergency situation, an emergency situation may be announced where conventional measures have failed to address the situation and additional measures restricting fundamental rights and freedoms of people are needed. The impact of the current long-term drought cannot be considered as a basis for declaring an emergency situation governed by the Emergency Act. There are no provisions in Estonian law on declaring natural disasters in the agricultural sector. The announcement of an emergency or natural disaster does not have a direct impact on farmers. The announcement of these situations is not a condition for the launching of any support or a reason for non-compliance with the contractual obligations. The argument put forward in the question that the government has not provided farmers with a helping hand cannot be accepted. The government has taken operationally important steps to help farmers in difficulties due to drought. The government's decision to increase the equity of the Rural Development Foundation by EUR 20 million will provide farmers with a better and faster chance of accessing capital to address the problems caused by the shortage of working capital. The sector's representatives have confirmed that finding additional funding for the MES is of great help to the agricultural sector. The second question: 'What measures has the Ministry of Rural Affairs proposed to farmers in relation to the mitigation of drought damage? Have they been effective? ' In addition to the government's decision to increase the equity of the Rural Development Foundation by EUR 20 million, we have carried out the following activities: Due to the drought and the difficult situation in the agricultural sector, the Ministry of Rural Affairs addressed the European Commission with regard to the requirement for greening support for ecokesa production restrictions. As a result, in 2018, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Poland and Portugal have a special nature in order to be able to store animal feed from these areas this year. On 30 August, we sent the Commission information on the impact of drought on the agricultural sector in Estonia known at that time and we proposed that the European Commission pay emergency support within the framework of the market organisation in order to compensate for the damage caused by drought. We intend to extend the maximum time limit for the implementation of investments and the submission of expenditure documents for aid applicants who received a positive decision in the 2017 call for proposals for measure 4.1 "Investment support for improving the performance of an agricultural undertaking' from two to three years. In addition, we intend to extend the deadline for the implementation of investments by another six months for beneficiaries who have already been granted a decision to grant the application in the 2015 call for proposals, from two to three years in 2017. We have informed the sector that if the drought fails to meet the requirements of any of the support measures, it should be notified to the PRIA, which can treat it under the rules of support as exceptional or force majeure, and in such cases no recovery of the aid will be involved. As a new initiative, we have launched the development of the MAK 2014‐2020 Insurance Support Action, which will run in 2019. The total budget for the measure for the years 2019 to 2020 is EUR 2 million, and the supported activity is a 70% premium compensation. Damages to be compensated are adverse weather conditions; animal or plant disease; pest spread; environmental incident; measures to eradicate or limit the spread of plant disease or pest outbreak. In addition, I note that this year direct payments will increase to EUR 10 million. Direct payments to farmers will be paid EUR 133 million this year. The Government of the Republic will also continue to pay full transitional payments, this year they will be paid to farmers for a total amount of EUR 18 million. We can measure the effectiveness or impact of activities and measures if there are results and corresponding data to be analysed. The third question: 'The working capital loan offered by the Ministry has been taken up by few because the measure is ineffective and does not help those in need. Why are there no plans to provide national assistance as in some neighbouring countries (Finland, Sweden, Poland)? ' Agricultural policy is common in the countries of the European Union and, apart from the measures provided for there, direct payments, MAK measures, management of droughts can be compensated either as State aid or as agricultural de minimis aid. In the case of State aid or de minimis aid, it will take much longer for the applicant to receive the aid, the aid received will be significantly lower, the de minimis threshold will be met, thus reducing the possibility of receiving other necessary aid as de minimis aid. Therefore, the aid received through the MES will be faster and in larger amounts and will be granted to those who need it directly. A simplified example. If we divide EUR 20 million into a payment per hectare for all farmers, taking into account the crop area of 669000 hectares this year, the unit rate per hectare will be EUR 30. Assuming that the average holding uses 300 hectares of agricultural land, the aid per holding would amount to EUR 9000. If we were to channel some part of it into the livestock sector, the amount of aid would be even lower. Advantages of working capital loans granted through the MES compared to loans on market terms: more flexible collateral, lower collateral requirement (50% of the loan) and, where appropriate, a grace period (up to 12 months). According to the MES, 116 applications for working capital loans amounting to EUR 8448000 have been submitted today. As of 17 October, the MES Credit Committee has decided to grant loans to 62 undertakings amounting to EUR 3904000 in total. Farmers do not take loans lightly, and many entrepreneurs only find the need for liquidity loans after realising their production, paying out area payments and drawing up a budget for the spring sowing plan. Question 4: "Why has the European Commission not been called upon to get help to restore agricultural potential or to implement risk management measures, as is the case in Lithuania, for example? 'A change to the measure is being prepared to restore agricultural potential and will be presented to the Commission as a package of the fourth amendments to MAK, which will be discussed in the MAK Monitoring Committee on 6 November. The Commission has pledged the agricultural potential of the measure to compensate for the sowings of multiannual grasslands which were destroyed by drought. In Lithuania, we know that an insurance measure is being developed and we are also developing it to be implemented in 2019 in the framework of MAK. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U10	Questions for the Minister. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U11	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I wanted to say this, however, that direct payments are not a favour of the Estonian Government, but of the European Union. And its increase is linked to the budget of the European Union. However, as far as the MES loan is concerned, it is unfortunately not more favourable if the interest received from banks is significantly higher and the loan leave cannot be taken so flexibly. Why did the government, in a situation where there are often zero or negative interest rates in the world market and in banks, make such a crunchy interest loan available, which is still a punishment for farmers rather than aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U12	Thank you for this question. European direct payments really are not a favour of this government; I agree with you as a questioner in this respect, but it simply shows this amount. Add to this the amount of transitional payments, EUR 140 million will be paid to farmers over the next five weeks. You can't just miss it and not mention it here, because it's the reality we're living in right now. However, if you ask why the loan percentage is so high, according to the State aid rules and the Foundation's Loan Scheme for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, the non-profit sector and loan financing companies, financing working capital is not an eligible cost for State aid in the form of a loan. In order to avoid a breach of State aid rules and to reduce the complexity of the loan procedure by applying only de minimis rules and limits to loans, the interest rate on the loan measure is fixed at the interest rate applicable to the main refinancing operations of the European Central Bank plus a minimum of 4%. So there's no way we can ignore it. Is the loan expensive or not expensive? I think that the best and stronger companies with more capital and more collateral would really get it cheaper than a commercial bank, but the advantage of our loan is that the guarantee is only 50% of the amount of the loan requested and is an opportunity to apply for a one-year grace period. However, if we consider that inflation is around 3% per year, it may not be a very expensive loan. This is purely due to the interest rate applicable to the main refinancing operations of the European Central Bank, which we cannot ignore in any way. The idea that the state wants to make some kind of money is totally wrong. The state could have borrowed money with 0%, as the EKRE once proposed, and I and the government would not have minded if it had applied the relevant rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U13	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I remember when you sat in this hall every day and were a fiery fighter for the farmers. How about now, are you satisfied with what you're doing? Are these measures sufficient to alleviate any of this summer's farmers' distress, or could there have been anything better to do if the Minister of Finance had agreed more with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U15	Thank you for that good question. When I was in this Chamber, I really asked all the ministers repeatedly, including the Prime Minister, why the Estonian state does not pay the transitional payments for farmers. The previous government really did not pay them, a total of EUR 70 million was not paid out to farmers, and half a million of emergency aid was not paid out. That's what I kept asking questions about in this hall. And since I became a minister, I have in no way changed my position or position. The understanding that the minister could take the wallet and now go to the village or somewhere to distribute the money is not right, because there is simply no such possibility. It is not even a question of the size of money there this year; it is a question of which principles it is possible to share the money. If I bring to you, for example, Latvia and Lithuania, I remember, if I look at the table too, the transitional allowances have not been paid at all by one country, the other country will pay a third. However, no country has found any additional resources in its national budget in relation to drought. When Finland and Sweden, for example, were brought here, they were using precisely this de minimis aid of EUR 15000 per producer. I could tell you that last year we paid it out to vegetable farmers and potato growers. Already then, many manufacturers had this 15,000 limit full, which can be paid out in three years. This would have created a very, very unequal situation in the agricultural sector, very complicated and it would have been difficult to distribute this money in this way. It is often asked, however, why do you not believe and listen to the proposals of the farmers' representative organisations? We listened directly to their proposal. They asked for an urgent allocation of 20 million through the MES so that it could be put into circulation. Let me give you an example. Last year, emergency assistance was given due to excessive humidity, which was confirmed here in Estonia, but only reached the farmer in August this year. However, farmers could start using this working capital loan immediately. And as I said, these figures are quite large, they are being dealt with, and certainly this is the fastest way to get the money directly to the farmer. With this proposal came up the Chamber of Commerce for Agriculture. And I find it rare that this is the first case in Estonian history where the representative organisation has publicly praised the government. I don't remember the history of Helir-Valdor remembers that the government was so praised that we essentially solved this issue in two weeks and got a deal with the coalition partner. It is no secret that, in the light of this decision, the Latvian minister came here with his officials, said that Latvian farmers were quite angry with them, and asked how these matters were resolved so quickly in Estonia. There is a common agricultural policy in the European Union, it is not possible to distribute money in such a way as to distribute, as they say, any other money. There are very precise rules in place, and 15,000 for three years is the limit. This border is intended to be raised to EUR 25000, we have also proposed it, and hopefully the Commission will meet it in the spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U16	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U17	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, You also briefly mentioned Latvia and Lithuania in your previous reply. It is true that Latvia and Lithuania both declared an emergency situation in July, including due to severe drought damage. You did not see an opportunity to do so because the current Emergency Act does not explicitly provide for the possibility of declaring an emergency situation due to drought, although Latvia and Lithuania have seen and made the corresponding amendments to the law. This measure helped the companies there in their relations with the banks and in the servicing of their loans. Why has the current government or the Ministry you manage not seen the possibility of initiating a draft law amending the Emergency Act to extend the emergency situation even in the event of drought damage, if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U18	Thank you, good question! One of the key issues of this summer was why the emergency situation is not announced. I said that it is possible to declare an emergency situation when there is a risk to the life and health of a person. I will tell you once again: Latvia has not announced an emergency situation this year. Although a special situation was announced last year in Latvia when there were floods, when heavy rainwater took away bridges and entourages. If there is a risk to people's lives and health, the military will be involved in Estonia, for example, the Defence League, etc. This is a completely different situation. This year, no special situation has been announced in Latvia. So in Latvia, a natural disaster has been declared, but when I spoke to the Latvian Minister and when I spoke to the Lithuanian Minister too, the situation has not improved in any way, as no treaty has been cancelled. There will be no direct cancellation of any contracts, simply giving the bank some advantage in the negotiations. But that no banker would believe that we had a drought, I think, in Estonia either. So, in itself, the announcement of such an emergency situation has not given any additional money to Latvian and Lithuanian farmers; it has not cancelled any agreement. So, yeah, they announced it, but to the farmer, let's say, there was no real benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U19	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U20	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm coming to that $20 million. You say the Chamber of Agriculture came and the government approved, but the farmers I've spoken to many of are laughing at it. A loan at such a crisp interest rate, it's like offering a crane food from a plate. And as you can see, only 3 out of this 20 million has gone into action, so a relatively small part. You said the reason for the crispy interest is that the European Bank is like a cross on the road, telling us in advance. When will this 20 million be used? Do you now feel that you are still the minister of rural affairs in a sovereign state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U21	Thank you. That's a good question. The representative of the agricultural sector cannot question the membership of the European Union, I look here at the head of the honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Jaanus Marrand, I do not know what he would say to that, because the biggest winner of the European Union is certainly a farmer right now. We will receive 1.7 billion direct aid from the European Union for the agricultural sector. And to question now whether we should perhaps ignore the rules of the European Union in any way, rather than using them, I do not dare to ask such a question. Once again, it is not in itself the intention that this loan be taken out. The loan is to remedy the emergency somehow. The Estonian farmer is very conservative; he has also been able to schedule his activities correctly. Knowing that Estonian farmers will receive 140 million euros in grants at the beginning of December, I think that in many cases there is not even a need for credit, because they are well conservative and sustainable, they calculate very accurately and they are able to participate in financial matters. It is not, in itself, mandatory to take out this loan. This is an opportunity for an entrepreneur with a rather complex situation. And it is also possible to take a year's loan leave, there is no contract fee. So if this 4% is so expensive now, the farmer himself appreciates it, no one else can judge it. But it was the proposal of the Chamber of Agriculture and Trade that they represent Estonian farmers, and they thanked us for making this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U22	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You know, I always get a fang when people start talking about how much money we've gotten and how useful it's been for us. Of course, it's always nice to get money, and it's always good for the recipient, but the question isn't that, it's something else. And Peeter Ernits' question was whether you were really the Minister of Agriculture of a sovereign state, not dependent on anyone's money. Do you know how the Russian Tsars, or Moscow's Grand Princes, became self-governing? Because a strong woman asked if you were the ruler or if you were the ruler under the grace of the Tatars. That is the content of Peter Ernits' question, to which you answered completely inadequately. But my question concerns something else. Maybe I missed my ears, but how many of our farmers have taken advantage of this loan now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U24	Thank you. I have already said that, but I think there were 116 companies that are applying for it, and the amount they are asking for is EUR 8448000. And now, when we come back to sovereignty, I think we're very sovereign. Last week on Monday, I met Commissioner Vella in Brussels, curating fisheries, and Commissioner Hogan. What were we discussing? We discussed Estonia's proposals, how then the agricultural policy for the next period would become more flexible, less control, more subsidiarity. And we have also achieved that, in the next period, the Member State itself will be able to decide very much what measures it will take, what programmes it will implement. It is no longer the European Union's average. That is what shows the sovereignty of the Member States. We have managed to bring our proposals to the table, we have found supporters. It's not like we're being run over and no one's counting on us. The fact that we are not sovereign and no one is counting on us here or that we are unable to bring our proposals there does not hold true at all. I do not think that the Commissioner would come to see us in private. We will certainly also negotiate all subsidies and everything else. Look at the new budget period and you will see that Estonia's interests are very strongly represented there, be it subsidiarity, flexibility of subsidies, etc. It certainly takes account of the Member States and also takes into account the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U25	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! You spoke very much about justice and how money should be paid out to farmers at this point. I'm sure you remember that last year, there was a pretty big scream for pig farmers to pay out certain breeding aid. This gave the public a clear impression that pig farmers involved in the Centre Party were in a privileged position. But sadness is also that, in this year's budget, you will continue on the same line. If you said that the agricultural organisations have all applauded your agricultural policy, why do cattle farmers and ewe farmers not do the same? Because if you deprive them of additional support for the second time compared to pig farmers, it is certainly, I dare say, very unfair to this sector. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U27	Thank you. I think it was one of the very good measures of this government to support further pig farming within the limits of the possibilities that can be applied at all. As we know, there are no additional options. In this case, the pig sector is in a very difficult situation, because high cereal prices, which are welcomed by cereal farmers, are actually very difficult for the pig and poultry sectors because they have to buy expensive cereals. If we now come back to this measure, where we are able to supply the internal market to 70% of our own, then we could say that the government should not do anything, but look aside, while the market itself regulates. Look, this government doesn't do that. This government is doing different things to help the sector. Let me just give you an example. In the first half of this year, the number of domestic pigs increased by 11000 pigs. If you're saying that this money has somehow been misused and misused, it's your decision. If you were a minister, you acted differently, but I say that this was the best opportunity and the only right decision to support this sector so that we would not have any conflict with the European Commission. I can tell you that during the first half of the year, for example, the number of dairy cows increased by 1000, the number of pigs increased by 11000. Despite this drought, the dairy sector grew by 3% in the first half of the year. And it also turned out from Statistics Estonia that a very high proportion of state subsidies was available. So yes, politics is a matter of choice. We believe that the Estonian state should be able to cover its internal market with its pork, and we work every day for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U28	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U29	Thank you, Minister. You're saying farmers all applaud this loan. Not at all. We receive dozens of letters, speeches, invitations to meet, where there is a great deal of concern about this. So the reality is completely different. And the biggest beneficiaries in the European Union are farmers. Well, maybe so, but not Estonian farmers, who get much less than farmers in the old countries, and that difference had to have been gone a long time ago. At present, even the option of not raising subsidies at all is under consideration in the European Union's talks. But I was very surprised when you said that the guarantee for this loan had to be 50%, and that was very favourable. Banks don't have such a terrible requirement for collateral. What's the end of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U30	Thank you. Maybe I'll start with the fact that if you get a loan from a commercial bank with a guarantee of 120%, you're gonna have to be a gold customer. If a commercial bank gives you a loan of less than 100% or 120% with a guarantee, I've never heard of such a thing. Now, when you're talking about the fact that the loan is expensive for the farmer, and so on, I was just saying that it was a way to get the farmer money quickly. There was another option: the EUR 20 million that the government provided could have been paid out as exceptional support. After all, before the elections, we could have distributed this EUR 5 000 and EUR 1 000 over Estonia, which would have been a very popular step by the Minister. Do we not, then, listen to the views of the representatives of the agricultural organisations and take into account last year's experience that last year's so-called emergency payments and allocations have only been paid out in August this year? That was the choice. After all, this EUR 20 million could have been paid out as emergency aid, there would have been no problem at all. However, the agricultural organisations came with their proposal, I think we should listen to them, and they also thanked us for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U31	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. The heirs should get the floor first, but if they don't want the word, then, Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U32	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Very honorable Minister! The word 'righteousness' has been heard several times today from this remote control and how well we are doing. I'd like to bring some facts and some numbers to describe the situation. In this sense, I agree with the Minister that everyone chooses their own policy and is trying to implement it. However, when it comes to the extraordinary support that the European Union granted last year, EUR 1.34 million, to which the government itself did not put a single cent, and which, for some reason, only arrived after a year, I think that there is one very clear sign of what the current government is doing. If the government had placed an extraordinary amount of money on 1.34 million, farmers would have had it by this autumn. Certain companies, especially small businesses, would certainly be less in need of credit or the risk of bankruptcy. I think maybe the minister was wrong. Each country cannot simply pay out emergency support, even when elections are coming. There's been a lot of feeling about this election sign in this hall today. Countries receiving emergency support will be paid out once the European Commission has given this opportunity, which means determining how much the European Union will pay itself and how much more countries can pay, otherwise it will be treated as State aid. Another important thing that went through here today was that it is not possible to declare an emergency situation, and the current legislation does not allow it. In fact, the Minister knows that we have also tried to discuss how the possibility of describing this emergency situation in a different way could be included in the law, so that it takes into account possible drought damage. We know there hasn't been a drought like this for 60 years. And what we wanted to offer farmers was, in fact, to give them more confidence in the negotiations and beyond when they talk to their creditors. Nobody's talking about paying their bills here. This 20 million for the MES in its whole being is definitely positive. Yeah, but it doesn't solve everyone's problems. Extraordinary support would reach a much larger number of people in need who would not receive it through other measures. One measure that has also been discussed here is transitional support, but we know that it will be paid with the reference in 2010. Nearly 20% of the companies to which it is paid no longer operate in the same sector as they were in 2010. So 20% goes where it's not needed anymore. Not to mention the distribution of the transitional support itself, 84% goes to larger companies. Perhaps, in rural terms, it is important that we also be able to give some support to a small enterprise. So what's really going to happen now? Those farms that started their activities after 2010 or young entrepreneurs will be deprived of transitional payments and cash flows. That is why it would be extremely important for the government to contribute to extraordinary support. The honourable minister mentioned that the previous government has done nothing. And I've heard that a lot. When we talk about exceptional support, this particular government has paid EUR 460000 for emergency support, while the previous government has paid over 30 million. It is not intended to show one side or the other very positive, but I am just talking about facts. When the Committee on Rural Affairs convened an extraordinary committee meeting, it was done because the government was actually rather sluggish. I was also surprised when the Prime Minister replied to us on the question of why the state budget is currently being tried by selling agricultural land. At the moment when farms have a cash flow problem, the sale of arable land should actually stop it from being bought simply by real estate developers or by very large and capable operators. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U33	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U34	It is like a broad package of measures that has clearly caused us problems. One myth that I have had to disprove a hundred times from here because of the statements made by the Honorable Minister is that, because the government tenfolded the breeding premiums for pig farmers, Estonians will receive 100% of Estonian pork at one point. That is a completely absurd statement. Indeed, the public cannot be manipulated by the fact that in Estonia, if the level of self-sufficiency in one sector or another is one hundred per cent, i.e. pigs and production in Estonia as much as Estonians consume, this does not mean a priori that the Estonian gets pork on its table. If you look at the statistics, what do we notice? At that point, when the level of self-supply was below 100%, imports were in fact in a completely different weight. This means that even if we may have a self-supply level of 120%, the level of imports may be so high that this Estonian pork does not actually reach the table. That's not an adequate story. This is one coefficient that describes the potential production potential, but that doesn't mean a priori that we eat pork. The sadness is that indeed, at the moment when the African swine fever was already at the border and entered Estonia's territory, the number of Estonian pork actually increased and the consumption of Estonian pork increased during this plague. But these things are not one-sidedly dependent on us being able to meet the level of self-supply. So what do we say to cattle farmers, dairy farmers, if the breeding aid does not rise, but even falls this year according to the coefficient? We cannot say that we are trying to approach fairly if we are unable to wipe out doubts that pig farmers will receive more money because they are closely associated with the government party. That's the suspicion that came up in society. So in this sense, it must certainly be said that this government has not taken full advantage of all the possibilities. If I remember correctly, the Committee on Rural Affairs instructed the Ministry to analyse and develop a possible legislative package that would give farmers the opportunity to negotiate more strongly with creditors. The Minister should say how far this package has come, despite the fact that the Minister personally opposed, at the first sitting of the Commission and at the initial stage, that we should at all be dealing with an emergency or emergency situation. Let's not deal with the emergency situation. Even the Director-General of the PRIA said that when it comes to natural disasters or certain legislative changes, it actually gives the PRIA the opportunity to act better. But we forget about the creditors. And creditors are not only banks, they are also other companies. It would be very sad if this situation were to be exploited for malicious takeovers. So small business will clearly lose more of the agricultural and rural policy that is currently taking place. And that's the problem, because the money is concentrated in the hands of the larger ones, including the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U35	Thank you, Urmas Kruuse! Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I certainly wouldn't have pushed the chair here if it hadn't been very sharply scratching the ears of the babies that came out of the mouths of those who came forward first and foremost. They're gonna need a little clarification. Of course, farmers have had difficult times. If we look forward here, indeed, the crisis in pig meat production, the decline in the dairy market, excessive rainfall, too little rainfall. In Soviet times, there was a joke that there is no international imperialism yet, that there are problems every year. Agriculture is an area dependent on nature and, of course, there are problems. But the fact is also that in a very large number of cases, farmers have taken such problems into account and that these risks must be measured by each and every one of them. First of all, we would settle the question of whether or not we belong to the European Union and whether or not we will receive very little or much support from it. The fact is that through the common agricultural policy, the amount of money that Estonia receives is actually above average in the European Union, i.e. we are among the first ten countries. One thing is direct payments, but the other is payments under the rural development plan, the first pillar and the second pillar. When you add up these two pillars, we are among the first ten in terms of the amount of subsidies. So it is therefore misleading to say that all the funds coming to rural Estonia are very small. As far as direct payments are concerned, they are indeed smaller, but this is largely offset by the scale effect of our Estonian farmers. In other words, since the average Estonian producers are above the average, this really smooths out a great many of these direct payments. So Estonian farmers are very competitive and it can be clearly said that this is so much thanks to the common European agricultural policy. This also means markets to sell to. And now, speaking of the word 'grants', it is perhaps the wrong word at all, because it is actually agricultural subsidies. But subsidy is a little different from support. Grants may be social benefits, it is more appropriate to say so, but Estonia's agricultural production in the sense of the common agricultural policy cannot be treated as social subsidies. Accordingly, this issue should be discussed in a slightly different way in this Chamber today. When we talk about what a fellow Member said that if a loan is taken with more than 50% of the guarantee, i.e. you have only 50% of the guarantee, it is an unprecedented amount of demand. No, it's not. With a guarantee of less than 100%, no commercial bank will grant a loan. And, in fact, this is a loan measure, not less than half of which have been granted, but, yes, at present, less than half of which EUR 8.5 million has been requested. And they actually go to the Rural Promotion Foundation, which is also a credit institution, which is not a charitable institution, but is a self-sufficient credit institution. It is true that there are such more sensitive products, which are therefore also receiving certain subsidies from the State, that they are fulfilling a public order, but basically they have to manage themselves. Of course, every person knows that if he goes for a loan to build a house, the loan is secured first by the house itself and then on top of it, right? That is also true of the fact that, if the guarantee for a loan in agriculture is 50%, it is very good. And the fact that the security that is required is so small is what triggers the price of interest. There's no way you're gonna have a little interest at the same time and a little deposit. That's what interest costs. And it's pretty natural that it is, it can't be any different. I've been a member of the Council of the Rural Development Foundation, and I can read the balance sheet on how these adjustments work. That's why it's a natural course. And that's when you don't get any more money from a commercial bank. Then you're in an inescapable situation, and that's where you get it. This has been the case and remains the case in Estonia and elsewhere in the world. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U37	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U38	Now for the announcement of an emergency. Of course, an emergency can be declared. Maybe the Latvians and the Lithuanians are declaring it. But speaking to Latvian or Lithuanian farmers, I have spoken to them, they say: nothing has come of it. Nothing more than that, actually. So a lot of steam on this announcement, but the result is actually nothing. We can preach, but what does it provide? Not much, I'd say, if you looked at the real situation. If, for example, this extraordinary situation as small slices were to be fed to animals instead of a silo, then it could be announced, but unfortunately it does not. If we now look at what farmers have hoped for, I also know this very well, namely from personal conversations with farmers. Many of those who have concluded "pre-trade agreements" and "prices" on the stock market have now been disappointed because prices have risen a lot. Stock market prices have gone up a lot, but farmers have locked up their goods and they are losing a lot of money. However, many farmers do not like this. I'd like to get more. There has been hope that when the emergency situation is declared, these contracts will also be declared void. I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. And it's better if it doesn't. Because like with their interest, no one gives a loan or money for nothing. Money isn't just about coming from somewhere and being somewhere. The same is true of the fact that there is a stock exchange, there is a price broker, and if, once these intermediaries get a large amount of money, then next year the difference between the stock exchange price and the price of intermediaries is simply significantly higher. Farmers lose even more. Very many thinking farmers have thought that the bad story yes, we got beat up on the stock market for quite a long time, lost a lot of money. But it's a better option than the fact that next year the difference between the stock exchange price and the broker price is bigger, because somewhere you have to take the difference. It's better to put up with the difference today and move on. That's why we're within reasonable limits. It's a bad situation. The previous speaker spoke about how two times there were farmers on this site with milk bottles, though tractors, in order to talk about transitional payments. Even it was said that we would pay half, for God's sake, even a little bit of this transitional allowance. Then it wasn't done. There's a new government, and now it's happening. It is worth several tens of million euros. God's luck to change government. I am absolutely sure that we would have been here to face even more difficult problems, so in this sense, in some cases, it would be better to speak less and less, rather than kiss very much, and to organise here the shoutings of the 'extraordinary situation'. It doesn't add anything. Better to talk less, but to be honest about your own political behaviour in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U39	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish to negotiate, but the Minister does. One moment, Minister. Did they mention your name? How? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Eelkõneleja.'???]] Previously on Pre-Speech. Objection, Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U40	Thank you. Good colleague! I wanted to remind you once again and to state that transitional support is not an additional aid for all, because some of it is still missing. What are the measures that govern them? It was the principle of my saying. If you think it's such a good picket where Urmas Laht is basically raging on the car, I don't think that's the real thing, okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U41	The word becomes one opposition; unfortunately, such conversation cannot be developed between them; the Rules of Procedure do not allow it. But the Minister will be the last to participate in the negotiations. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U42	I came here primarily to correct my mistake. Urmas Kruus, a honourable member of the Riigikogu, was indeed right. We are not talking about emergency aid; this must be asked by the European Commission. But the European Commission also recommended this. So if anyone would have liked to have done so, the European Commission kindly even offered to make this request. But we applied for de minimis aid, which is EUR 15000 per three years. So in this respect, I wasn't precise, but sometimes there's a lot of lyrics. However, when it comes to the new budget period and Estonia's position, I say that Estonia is one of the few countries that will win the new budget period. All Member States were cut by 3.9%. If we sum up the first pillar, where Estonia has a 26% increase in support, is it not a good negotiating position, 26%? There will be about 150,000, 170000 hectares of additional land, accounting land. So this is a very positive step for Estonian agriculture in the next period. This shows once again that we are still equal partners at the table. When people keep talking about pork and I don't know what else, my approach is completely different: either it's 70% or 80%. I ask why Spain grows 40 million pigs. Are they gonna eat all this? Once we should also realise that the agricultural sector can and will be a very good export sector. Today, goods are being exported for about a billion dollars, but it could be much more. Why does the question arise as to whether we can feed our people with our pork? We should also think about exports. If we don't think about exports, where's that supposed to come from? If we put the Netherlands and Denmark in here, let's see how many pigs they grow there, I'll ask if these countries are stupid. For example, in Ireland 80% of all beef production is exported. After all, they could only think about how much their people need. Or New Zealand, 95% of the milk goes for export. If we do not think that the agricultural sector is a very good export sector, then I think we are not thinking right. This is a great opportunity for Estonia. If you still come to this so-called pig premium, I'll just get one figure. This aid was not only granted to Urmas Laht but was granted to 79 pig farmers. You might want to memorize that figure, 79. This regulation was not only for Urmas Gulf, but 79 producers gained more. He was part of this, but I think we should not prohibit anyone from being an entrepreneur in Estonia. And if we are still talking about this extraordinary situation, I will tell you once again: it was not announced in Latvia, it was not announced in Lithuania. In Lithuania, the emergency is based on the Civil Protection Act. So in every country, it's completely different. And if you ask the ministers of both these countries, the farmer has no help at all. No aid has been granted, it does not bring any extra money, it does not cancel the contract. Throughout the summer, there has been a noise over it and it has been said that these countries behaved well enough as I read these big, loud headlines, but this was not enough. This talk is not adequate because other countries have received no advantage compared to Estonia. All of this is worth discussing, of course, but the basic position is still this: the emergency situation is the danger to a person's life and health. This is also the basis of the Emergency Act, which was adopted by the Estonian Parliament quite recently. This regulation of the European Commission and of the European Parliament already exists, which allowed the PRIA to treat these matters as an emergency situation this year as well, i.e. force majesty. So there is no need to do anything extraordinary for this either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U43	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U44	Free mike. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U45	Honorable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, As if Estonia cannot do without Latvia, I cannot do without South-East Estonia. I mean, our fans of the Valga Hospital in South-East Estonia and those doctors who handed over the prosecutor's office with a criminal record of instituting a criminal case, we received a reply that the prosecutor's office did not process the complaint we filed or the criminal report. They said there were sloppy errors inside. I mean, a crime like that, the prosecutor's office called it a sloppy mistake, technical failure, negligence, etc. Basically, the words 'crime', 'crime' or 'infringement' were replaced by some kind of synonym that isn't as criminal as it is. That is why we decided with the support group that we would proceed and appeal. We are now appealing this by going to the Public Prosecutor's Office, as we have submitted a point to the prosecutor's office about the suspicion of corruption that the University of Tartu Hospital and the Valga Hospital Council were forced to do so. The Labour Dispute Committee has recorded that the Head of the Council of Valga Hospital, Seer, has said and his lawyer has confirmed that he was in a state of compulsion. All you can do is force the Agency to abuse it. It's a crime. And that's one episode we're going to appeal. The second episode is forgery of data, which was simply called sloppy at the prosecutor's office, was a minor error or mixed up the paperwork. So what if digital signatures are on all the papers, which means that digitally signed papers have no letter numbers and no letter dates, so there are more violations than there are, but they are called careless errors. So, basically, one thing the DA's office didn't want to discuss, didn't want to take out the documents, didn't want to summon the parties, but said that it couldn't be initiated because of the lack of membership, because the composition as such is entirely there. And now there's two new things. The first is the initiation of a criminal case for counterfeiting, starting from scratch, between Valga Hospital and the victim. Now I have to step aside as a representative. There is a victim and there is also a criminal offence. The second is the suspicion of corruption, which goes to the Public Prosecutor's Office. So let's keep going. Southeast Estonia, Valga, Põlva, Võru, you are not alone, you are not abandoned, you are not forgotten. Women, you'll get Southeast Estonia back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U46	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U47	Good President and few colleagues. Actually, the work day in the big hall just started, but it's already over. It's not, as they say, warmed up yet. I would like to say a few words on the table, because the format does not allow otherwise. In fact, our agenda for the entire week of the sitting is very unbalanced. I wanted to speak to you about this earlier. Today is a very short working day, but Wednesday is 19 points. There could still be some balance. But that's it. Another such observation for me as a new member of the Riigikogu. The first reading of the state budget is over, but the Committee on Economic Affairs has never discussed the state budget. I think it's interesting information for the verbatim. Maybe it's normal, although I don't think it's normal. But why did I come here? I came because a good colleague named Jaanus Marandi, who is still here, spoke very well about how this 20 million share is going and that there are also intelligent people in the MES. Agreed. But Jaanus said, let's be honest, and he was here talking about how it was about transitional subsidies. I was sitting there at the time under the window, near, and I remember how the Centre Party presented a proposal to restore the transitional subsidies to which the then government coalition led by the Reform Party opposed. I remember when there was a vote. And I didn't believe my eyes when two of our larger farmers ♪ a good colleague, Jaanus Marrandi, and Ivari Padar ♪ sneaked out of the hall in a quiet step. It was awkward to vote against, it couldn't be in favour, so it was better to leave the hall. So basically, the position depends on the seat. This is such a friendly little reminder of the annals under the heading "Let's Be Honest! '. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U48	Now, procedurally I have to tell you, Peter Ernits, in the case of enquiries, if there are negotiations, then first the inquisitors speak and then everyone can talk, so there is no limit. Yeah, the Rules of Procedure Act gets better or worse clear in four years. Please, Jaanus Marrand!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U49	I certainly wouldn't have come here, but I already suspected that my colleague Ernits would be here to tell a story, and that's why I came here. Maybe it's because Peter Ernits, even though he's four years old, claimed to be a young politician. When does it get old when one of the Riigikogu members is away, but still doesn't know how politics works? Politics is the art of agreements. And the way in which the budget was once voted in this Chamber is perhaps a question. A responsible politician does not vote in favour of a thing that has no financial cover, but works long and hard with his coalition partners to get the money. With the Minister speaking in this Chamber, too, the lessons were spent and discussed with this same Reform Party in order to find certain financial resources. If there is no money, there is no money, but it is certainly not possible to make only those decisions in politics that are very pleasant. To be honest, it is not only decisions that are very pleasant, but a compromise that must be found, that must be agreed. I do not respect those politicians who can only be in opposition and criticize. Unfortunately, my colleague Ernits is one of those people who can never be anywhere else than in the opposition, because it is so damn easy to criticize, and hindsight is so damn good. As for whether we have much work or little work in this Chamber, it is up to us. If the question is asked in substance and because they really want to fight, really want to be honest and talk about the subject, then everyone is in the Chamber, taking the floor and fighting. But if they only ask their own questions, if they don't speak at all, then it's a fashionable thing, it's not an honest political fight. Fashioned fighting is called this thing. So that I could draw a bird in the opposition and say that you see, I did. Or take a picture of the hall, hang on to Facebook and say you see everything's missing, only I'll sit here and fight. Now, the next suggestion that Peter Ernits made. He is a member of the Economic Commission and has not seen the draft budget. Unfortunately, you were not present today, Peter, at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, but there was a presentation of the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I promise the Economic Commission officials will send you this. I think they're gonna send this data to everyone anyway, and you're gonna get to see it. Please note that next week, I think, on Monday, the second Minister of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will also be present on the Commission, who will be discussing budgetary issues in this area. That's right. So, in this sense, you have to go to the meetings of the Commission, monitor what is being said, you can also get information and see how it works, to be honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-22_U50	I'll see you tomorrow. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 4.09 p.m.
