ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and the candidate for the Supreme Court Heiki Loot! We will begin the 2nd working week Thursday session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Bills and enquiries are not recommended. We're going to the presence check. 71 members of the Riigikogu are present, 30 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U2	We will go to the first item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supreme Court (668 OE) submitted by Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court. In the light of the procedure, I would remind you that each of the rapporteurs may ask one question and the debate shall end with a secret vote. Mr Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U3	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable member of the Supreme Court candidate Heiki Loot! Today, the draft decision on the appointment of a member of the Supreme Court is on the agenda. On 21 June, the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe, proposed the appointment of Heiki Loot as from 3 December in accordance with § 150 (2) of the Constitution. a Member of the Supreme Court. Before that, all stages of court law had been passed. Heiki Loot is a person with legal education at the University of Tartu and has a very long and varied experience in the public service. A meeting with the candidate took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 10 September. Marko Pomerants, chairman of the committee, introduced this draft decision and also informed us that, if the committee makes a positive decision, the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court will be able to present a presentation of up to five minutes before the Riigikogu's plenary. This decision was taken by the Commission, but later. The Commission had two kinds of questions. First of all, most of the substantive issues were on constitutional monitoring. Mart Nut's question was broader and more fundamental: do we need a constitutional court? Jüri Adams asked the Chairman of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamägi, whether he was about to appoint a prospective member of the Supreme Court as a member of the Constitutional Review College immediately. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I asked what experience-knowledge of the very long-term work of the Secretary of State, which began in 2003 and has therefore lasted for almost 16 years, will benefit from his new possible work as a member of the Supreme Court. Mart Nut's question about the necessity and feasibility of the Constitutional Court of Estonia He considered that constitutional oversight and its possible development should take place within the framework and on the basis of the Constitution. In his view, our constitutional oversight system is two problems. Firstly, there are too few cases in this area in Estonia; there could be twice as many. And the second problem is that all members of the Constitutional Review College do this in addition to other work. The College currently has nine members under the Law of the Courts. The College is headed by the Chairman of the Supreme Court and eight members of the supervisory college rotate: two members change every year, so that the entire composition changes within four years. Heiki Lood, a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, believes that there could be a couple of members of the Constitutional Review College who are doing this work as a main job, but they should not be lifelong either; they should also be subject to the rotation principle. To my own question about what experience and what knowledge of the long-term work of the Secretary of State can be used in the work of the judge of state, Heiki Loot replied that he wanted to work in the administrative college of the Supreme Court which deals with the resolution of administrative disputes, and in this respect the long-term work and knowledge of the functioning of the public sector and executive power will in any case be useful. In addition, this work has given him a very broad vision and sense capacity. Jüri Adams asked the question as to whether the new member of the Supreme Court, if we adopt this decision today, could immediately be implemented in the work of the Constitutional Review College, the Chairman of the Supreme Court replied that it would be difficult for him to answer this at the meeting of our committee because he does not know which judges of state have been appointed by rotation to the Constitutional Review College and whether before Heiki Loot there is someone else who has not participated in this work. But I'm sure Heiki Lood will have that opportunity during his working hours. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also made procedural decisions: to propose to put draft 668 on the agenda of today's sitting, to propose a final vote on the draft, to appoint a waitress before you and to propose to the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court Heiki Lood a presentation of up to five minutes before us, in accordance with the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U4	Thank you, good waitress. There's a question for you too. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U5	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I was also convinced, without this presentation, that Heiki Loot was a good candidate, but this is not a mistake in your report, because I knew Heiki Loot before. At the moment, I would rather ask whether you have discussed within the political party or in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs what criteria the new Secretary of State should meet and when he will be appointed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U6	Thank you. This is certainly not the subject of this item. And I do not think it is a mistake that, without my presentation and without an overview of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, you have been convinced that Heiki Loot is a good candidate. It's definitely a plus, and it's definitely a good thing that you're convinced of it as much as I am. But what you are asking for is the subject of the debate, and a draft law amending the Government Act will also come from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which will also include a change of regulation regarding the requirements of the Secretary of State, in particular as regards education. It's coming, let's not get ahead of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U7	Only one question is the rules of procedure for everyone. Good waitress, there are no more questions for you. Next, please send a speech chair to the candidate for the Supreme Court Heiki Lood. His report is up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U8	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I thank the Riigikogu for proposing to make a brief presentation before you. I also thank all the political groups of the Riigikogu for their previous meetings and for hearing me. In particular, however, I would like to thank the President of the Supreme Court for his proposal and the confidence that this entails in applying for a high position as a judge of state. I have served the Estonian country for almost 25 years and I would be grateful for the opportunity to continue. The national judges' candidacy before you has rightly stated that a judge cannot have an action programme. Firstly, the Court has no right of initiative. He has to settle the disputes that others have brought before him. Secondly, the requirement of independence and impartiality prevents a candidate from making promises as to how he or she would resolve one or the other particular case. The current President of the United States Supreme Court has rightly said: 'Judges are not politicians who can make promises in exchange for voters' votes. ' Certainly, however, I can allow right and fair decisions to be made in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Estonia, to take decisions where the Supreme Court's decision is necessary and important, to be honest, independent and impartial, and to be loyal to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. There were some more general questions during the nomination meetings, on which I will now make a brief statement once again. From meetings with the political groups of the Riigikogu, I had the impression that the burning problem was the length of court proceedings and, in particular, the length of criminal proceedings. The Estonian Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights guarantee the right to legal proceedings within a reasonable time. This is an important right and I will try to help protect it as far as it is possible as a member of the Supreme Court and its administrative college. The procedure must not be a punishment. Secondly, questions were raised as to the substance of some of the case-laws. The time since the meetings has proven that the substantive correctness of the decisions is best ensured by a multi-stage judicial system and the accompanying possibility of re-examining matters at a higher level of court. Thirdly, the question of judicial activism, i.e. whether the courts have assumed the discretion of the legislator. I would stress that the courts understand justice and make decisions in accordance with the Constitution and the laws that are compatible with it. Adoption of the Constitution and laws is the competence of the people and their elected Riigikogu. At the same time, the Court must also rule on cases where the simple law is silent or unclear. The court cannot refuse justice. § 15 of the Constitution gives everyone the right to apply to the courts to defend their rights. According to paragraph 14, the enforcement of rights is the responsibility of all branches of state power, including the judiciary. The Court must also resolve those matters where a simple law conflicts with the Constitution. § 152 of the Constitution obliges the Supreme Court to repeal any law or other act if it is contrary to the Constitution. At meetings with judges during the candidacy, I had the impression that concerns about the independence of the courts were not entirely unfounded. And that's not because there are courts and prosecutors in one building in some places. The judges do not feel that this is a threat to their independence. Rather, it is a question of political threats to curtail the independence of the courts in one way or another. That is why it should also be made clear here that I do not support plans or measures that undermine the independence of courts and judges. This would be the way to fair and impartial justice and the loss of democracy and the rule of law. Thank you for listening to me, and I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U9	Thank you. Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Member of the Supreme Court! When you presented yourself in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, you stressed that you do not consider it necessary to set up a separate constitutional review court in the current situation. And I totally agree with that. I also think that there is no need for this. Would you also explain how you will see the constitutional review process in the future? Do you think there should be any reorganisations in the Supreme Court? If so, how and what would they produce and what results?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U11	Thank you for that question. Indeed, I expressed the view that, having developed proposals once, it was either in the late 1990s or in the early 2000s, so that a separate constitutional court could be considered in Estonia, I am of the opinion today that we could first try to develop our constitutional oversight system on the basis and within the framework of the existing constitution. I also mentioned a few problems during the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. One problem in my opinion is that too few things have been dealt with in Estonia's constitutional review. In terms of the development of the Estonian Constitution and of constitutional law at all, it would be better if there were more of these things. The Constitution must not remain a dead letter. And the second problem is that today the honourable waitress, Hallemaa, has already brought out that we have constitutional oversight issues to be resolved by state judges alongside other work. Each judge belongs to a single college in its main office, it is then a civil, criminal or administrative college, and the work carried out in the Constitutional Review College is a temporary ancillary task. Speaking of progress, it seems to me that there might be at least a couple or three judges who will do it as their main job for a while. At the same time, however, I consider it necessary for the rotation of other colleges to continue. And thirdly, one issue that we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not have time to discuss: perhaps we could consider giving new procedural opportunities. One problem is certainly that if a judicial decision is to initiate a supervisory procedure, it may lead to a situation in which we retain a judgment whose position not to implement some of the provisions of the Constitution has not been accepted by the Supreme Court. Rather, a system such that there is a reference for a preliminary ruling could be considered. This means that if the court has doubts as to whether any of the rules which it must implement are compatible with the Constitution, it will suspend the proceedings and ask the Supreme Court for a preliminary ruling. This would be a measure of legal clarity and certainty. Like all of you, I know that a draft has been initiated to consider introducing an individual constitutional complaint. This debate is under way, a draft has been submitted from the Ministry of Justice. It doesn't have a lot of support. In my opinion, this is a proposal that should be considered seriously. There are situations where, with a general act, it is a law or another legislative act, such as a government regulation, it is also possible to violate the fundamental rights of a person. And in certain cases, be it tax or penal laws, for example, it is unwise to wait for a person to be punished or subject to other coercive measures. In that case, it makes sense to establish legal clarity in advance. These were briefly a few ideas about the procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U12	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U13	Thank you. You, honourable speaker, have already said in your speech that the trial must be fair and fair and swift, etc. That is why I would ask you this question. For example, the land exchange process lasted six years, the Edgar Savisaar process and the investigation will take seven years. It'll probably reach the Supreme Court, you might have to make a decision. How would you describe such mammoth processes and the killing of people in their course, literally?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U14	I expressed my view that every person in Estonia has the right to legal proceedings within a reasonable period of time. Where this line runs, it depends on the actual circumstances. This depends on the complexity of the process, the complexity of the circumstances of the procedure. But what Estonia must certainly consider is that the same right must also be guaranteed under the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights has also resolved matters in Estonia. In general, it is considered that one procedure for more than four to five years should not continue. Estonia has sinned against it a few times and learned some lessons for it. I think that the right to legal proceedings within a reasonable time must be taken seriously and tried to ensure it. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, we also had a discussion with the political groups, the majority of the proceedings in Estonia end very quickly. More than 90% of criminal matters are dealt with very quickly during the simple procedure, with about 200 processes being delayed. And I know that the Estonian prosecutor's office takes this seriously and tries to shorten the proceedings. Some progress has also been made, but there are still some cases where the length of the proceedings has been too long.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U15	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U16	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! You mentioned in your presentation that courts must decide even if the laws conflict with the Constitution. Please state which laws are contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U17	Thank you for that question. The answer to this question is only that it is clear in the course of specific proceedings that it is an individual dispute or a constitutional review procedure initiated either by a court or by the Chancellor of Justice or by the President. These procedures reveal which laws are contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U18	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U19	Thank you. Honourable candidate Heiki Loot! In this Chamber and throughout the proceedings of the Riigikogu, we often encounter the problem that the language of laws is such that a manual of fairness is needed to understand the text. Yesterday was no exception in this regard. Many paragraphs of the draft law go straight to the legal language humor fund. In five minutes' time, as a member of the Supreme Court, you will probably not be able to make any promises, but perhaps there are recommendations on how to improve this situation? Even lawyers are said to have had trouble with the language of the law sometimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U20	Thank you, good question! There are many factors that may complicate the language of the law. On the one hand, some areas are certainly so complex that it requires a number of regulations with a number of exceptions. And this may have been made even more difficult by practical life when these exceptions have been added, as a fair settlement has been sought in a case-by-case case. There is one other thing that will certainly contribute to this: there are certain areas, such as financial activities or taxes, which are so complex today, like our entire economy, that it already requires the use of certain vocabulary, which cannot be understood by a simple reader, not to mention legal jargon and professional concepts. And certainly the third factor is the need for compromises and agreement in a democratic society, in a parliamentary country. This, too, may sometimes make some wording so difficult that it also makes experienced lawyers sweat. These factors are therefore numerous. But surely one thing I've used a lot in my practice is the help of a good language editor. If there are more important texts, you could ask the language editor to review them. My own experience is that it helps a lot. That's what I boldly recommend to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U22	Good manager! Candidate for a Member of the Supreme Court! You were ahead of the election of four circuit judges, and you are actually another person who goes to the Supreme Court without the experience of a judge. You have been assistant to the President of the Supreme Court once, but this is something else. Tell me why you have been elected, increasing the number of people in the Supreme Court who lack the experience of judicial work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U23	Thank you. It's true that I don't have a judge's experience. At the same time, I have a lawyer's training, I've been doing legal work for years. All the agencies I have held for 25 years have been involved in legal work, even the current office of Secretary of State, in which I have verified for 15 years the legality of government legislation, with the help of my team, of course. On the other hand, I think that the quality of the Supreme Court's decisions is ensured by the presence of different viewpoints in the Supreme Court, which are borne by people with judicial experience on the one hand and other people on the other. In my case, I would point out that I have a considerable experience of working in executive power. I think I know how the government works, I know the work of the executive. I believe that it enriches the viewpoints represented in the Supreme Court and ultimately contributes to the fact that the decisions of the Supreme Court are more balanced and therefore better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U24	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U25	Thank you. A candidate for a good Supreme Court Member! My question is about court proceedings. As we know, more than 80% of the defendants choose our settlement procedure precisely because of what you said: this process itself has become a punishment, it is easier to take this last solution. Secondly, we will end 99.9% of the proceedings, even with the conviction, and the lawyers complain that we do not actually have equal legal proceedings. Half of them don't have equal weapons in their hands. Do you think this is compatible with the Constitution and is it appropriate to the rule of law? And I'm also asking you: how long do you think this reasonable time is for a trial?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U26	Thank you. It is difficult to answer these questions because they are very general. If you ask whether there is anything in the criminal proceedings that could be contrary to the Constitution, I would emphasise once again that this question cannot be answered in general. The answer can be given in the light of specific cases by assessing specific references to one or the other provision that they are compatible or incompatible with the Constitution. After all, the criminal process as a whole is aimed at ensuring the protection of the rights of persons involved in proceedings, and this objective is undoubtedly in accordance with the Constitution. Now, how long is this reasonable time? This really depends on the circumstances: simpler things need to be resolved more quickly; it will inevitably take more time to solve more complex things. I pointed out before that, in terms of general criteria, the European Court of Human Rights estimates this time to be four or five years. There is still a great deal of justification for the processes that go beyond that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U27	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U28	Since we have the opportunity to ask you questions, I am interested in your assessment of a methodological problem that has recently risen. Generally speaking, matters of constitutional supervision, where some part of the text of the law has been declared to be in conflict with the Constitution, are quite normal. However, in recent years, we have made several judgments in the courts of second instance, in which it is intended to declare that there is something missing in the law, in the opinion of the applicant and the court. It's like there's an empty set of concepts in mathematics, which means there's nothing there. How do you assess such a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U29	Indeed, such solutions have arisen. At the beginning of the actual practice of the Supreme Court, they did not exist; they were later formed. I think it is a natural result of the development of the legal order that it has come to this. It is not a presumption that the court or judges believe that the legislator should intervene because some social problems are so topical that they need to be resolved. However, the presumption is that the Constitution gives rise to an obligation to provide specific regulation. If the Constitution does not give rise to such an obligation, the court shall take such a decision and the obligation cannot be imposed on the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U30	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U31	Thank you. Mr. Loot! I can't believe it, but the independence of the courts has become an issue in Estonia. When it comes to trial in Russia, Vladimir Putin thinks we're talking about democracy. He believes that Russia is a democratic state and that it also gives the right to judge. There are similar trends in Estonia: we are talking about the fall of judges' heads, playing football with their heads and such, judicial reform. Tell me whether it is possible for an independent court to do something against it in society, or whether or not it is the voter who will decide whether or not the court will remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U32	Thank you. In a democratic society, there is also such a mechanism for consolidating democracy that certain decisions are raised to a higher level and certain decisions are made at a lower level. What I mean specifically is that the Estonian people have adopted the Constitution and it has raised certain values and certain standards to a higher level that cannot be changed by simple laws. There is a separate procedure for this, it requires the completion of separate procedures, it is an amendment to the Constitution. The judges must stand, as I have already said, for the fact that in Estonia, justice is understood in accordance with the Constitution and the laws that are compatible with it. There is no doubt that simple laws cannot make such changes. What the author of the Constitution decides is a question of the author of the Constitution. My recommendation as a citizen is undoubtedly that the democratic rule of law must be preserved in Estonia, which has brought Estonia great success. And its essential features are the separation of powers and the independence of the courts. The independence of courts, as rightly stated by the President of the Supreme Court, is not a privilege for judges or courts, it is a prerequisite for maintaining impartial justice, which is necessary in order to preserve the rule of law, which ultimately guarantees us the survival of a democratic society.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U33	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! The manifesto of entrepreneurs, which appeared a few days ago, calls for the reduction of Estonian officials by 3000 officials per year over four years. My question to you relates to the number of members of the Supreme Court. How many of the current members of the Supreme Court are pensioning and my question is: are you convinced that the Supreme Court must be 18 members or that these pensionable seats could not be filled and the number of members of the Supreme Court would fall to 15 in order to reduce bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U35	Thank you. After all, the number of judges depends on several factors. One is the number of things and the other is how the legal system is structured. I am applying for membership of the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court, which has five members. If we take as a comparison how many members there are in Finland, for example, then there is a separate highest administrative court with 28 members. In Finland, the population is four times that of us. We share 28 by four and we get that there should not be five but seven members in the administrative college of the Estonian Supreme Court. And one more thing, I'm sure. When comparing the size of the Estonian Supreme Court with that of a court of another state, it should be taken into account that the Estonian Supreme Court has four areas of judicial procedure or a branch of all in one court: it is the resolution of civil matters, the resolution of criminal matters, the resolution of administrative matters and the resolution of constitutional supervision matters. In many countries there are two or three separate courts for this. Already from the structure of the Estonian legal system, which corresponds to the continental European legal system, it follows that we also have separate legal areas and we consider it important that judges specialize. So, given the current legal system, it is inevitable that there must be separate colleges in the Supreme Court and four or five members are still the minimum size that is necessary. So I think that by reducing the number of members of the Supreme Court, bureaucracy or, let's say, state earners do not come together. In general, however, the aim is, of course, to keep public expenditure under control and also to keep the number of public employees or employees under control in the context of decreasing population numbers, a reasonable objective and governments have also tried to keep to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U36	Thank you. Good performer! I support your taking up this important new post when it comes to voting, but I have one question. You said that long-term work as Secretary of State, work on legal problems, should help you manage well in your new job. As we know, the Government of the Republic has tabled a bill that will be discussed in this Chamber very soon, and the content of which is also intended to amend the requirement of the Secretary of State for education. The aim is to abolish the requirement for legal education. Does this mean that your successors in the office of Secretary of State will not in the future be able to hold an important position as a judge of state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U37	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U38	Thank you for that question. Based on my long experience, I myself have recommended this change. I think that legal education in the office of Secretary of State is very good and useful, but it is not enough. The role of the Secretary of State is much more important, without it, knowledge, skill and experience cannot organise the work of the government and the cooperation of ministries, especially with Chancellors and other senior public officials. I have made a comparison that when ministers choose their chancellors, the chancellor's job is to guarantee the legitimacy of the Minister's regulations and to give his co-sign to confirm it. If we choose the chancellor and ask the ministers what you think is most important, whether the legitimacy of the regulations is guaranteed, and for that you call for the preparation of a lawyer, or whether it is experience and the ability to manage the ministry and organise the whole area of government, then the answer is, of course, that it is the last thing. I would stress once again that it is not bad if the Secretary of State has legal education. This is certainly useful in organising the government's work, but it should not be the only requirement. And I believe that if, in the future, a lawyer holds the office of Secretary of State, he will certainly, taking into account the requirements of this work and the experience involved, continue to be very well qualified as a judge of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U39	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U40	Thank you. Honourable candidate! I was a little raised by the fact that it was as if complaining that there were too few constitutional disputes in the courts. Perhaps the reason is that we have a well-established constitution by accident, the balance between the Riigikogu, the courts, the President and the Chancellor of Justice is well-placed and therefore there are no disputes. What's with all the complaining so there can be more?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U41	That's definitely not complaining. It has proved rather that, when compared with other countries, it stands out that there are fewer of these disputes in Estonia. It is certainly true that Estonia has a very good constitution, which helps to reduce the number of these disputes. The Constitution has also been made in such a way that it contributes to the lack of debate. What I wanted to say is simply that it is good for the development of the Constitution and of constitutional law to have a sufficient number of cases that the constitutional review court will resolve on the basis of the Constitution. Rather, I warned against the danger that the Constitution must not become a dead letter, but must be topical at all times.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U42	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U43	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Like Peep Aru, I also think that you are fit for the job you are running for, and I intend to vote in favour. But I'm sure I'll ask you about that other change. You say that the Secretary of State does not necessarily have to have legal higher education. Having been in government a few times as Minister of Justice, I dare say that the Secretary of State is very often expected to have legal feedback on various issues and to understand the legality of different decisions. On this change, I ask whether, in theory, it will be possible in the future that the next Secretary of State will be Jüri Ratas' will, and I will look around this Chamber at Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U44	Thank you for your question. I will certainly not make recommendations or make recommendations which could be the next Secretary of State. What was I referring to? An important experience in the work of the Secretary of State is how to organise both the work of the Government and the cooperation of ministries. This requires, in particular, certain experience. I think one of the important prerequisites is that these experiences can arise in certain occupations, in certain jobs. So the next Secretary of State could, in my opinion, be sought from current or former senior civil servants with such considerable experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U45	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable candidate! I also very much support your candidacy, but I may ask a slightly uncomfortable question, because I think it is important. Here in this Chamber, there has been the will, with some political force, to submit to the political will of the judiciary. How do you feel if Parliament ever passed a law that would subject the decisions of the Supreme Court to political will or be politically influenced, would it be in such a situation to continue as a judge of state in accordance with your conscience?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U47	Thank you. I will answer briefly: it would not be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U48	Honourable member of the Supreme Court, Heiki Loot, you have at least one more question. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U49	I would like to ask this last question: do you think that the laws adopted in the Riigikogu today are not an expression of the political will that the courts must follow?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U50	I'm sure it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U51	Good Heiki Loot, no more questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. No callers, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 668. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft decision, 6 against, 2 abstentions, did not participate 13. The bill has been adopted as a decision! Congratulations, Heiki Loot! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U52	We are going to the item number 2: First reading of the draft law amending the arms law initiated by the National Defence Commission (654 SE). Mr. Margus Tsahkna, member of the National Defence Committee, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The National Defence Committee has initiated a draft law amending the Weapons Act 654 and today it is before you at first reading. [[In the diner.]] I wish Heiki Lood good luck, too, but let's get back to work! First of all, I will talk about the background to presenting this bill to the Riigikogu. Specifically, if you remember, in the spring we discussed here draft law 615 amending the arms law, the strategic goods law, the explosives law and other laws concerning the Estonian defence industry. It was adopted and the law entered into force on 1 July, and once again thanks to the entire Riigikogu! I also recall that we basically gave the private sector the right to handle military weapons and ammunition for the first time since the restoration of independence in the Republic of Estonia. Thus, we have laid the foundations for the production of real weapons in the private sector of the Republic of Estonia as well. This law, as I mentioned, entered into force on 1 July. Now, on 16 May, when this later adopted draft 615 was still pending, the Minister for the Interior tabled 31 amendments, most of which would have changed the draft in principle. The National Defence Committee then also asked for the opinion of the Committee on Armed Forces, the Committee on Legal Affairs, whether we could include these 31 amendments in draft 615. The Committee on Legal Affairs supported these proposals in essence, but pointed out that the Riigikogu's Board of Directors has established 'Guidelines in the Riigikogu to shape good practice in the procedure of the draft law' and their paragraph 9 states that if the commission decides to substantially reform the draft in the light of the amendments, in particular by supplementing it with new regulations of fundamental importance, it will propose that the second reading be interrupted in order to allow members of the Riigikogu to submit amendments to the amended parts of the draft. The procedure of draft law 615 was then urgent, as the law was scheduled to enter into force on 1 July. It was therefore not possible to interrupt the second reading of the draft. This would have seriously endangered the possibility of participating in the procurement of the entire arms industry, including Estonia itself, and postponed it for at least six months. Therefore, the National Defence Committee, also consulted with the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior, decided that we would come up with these proposals separately and that they would also ensure that the European Union directive was transposed by 14 September. With this separate bill, I will be in front of you today. Now, with regard to the interior minister's amendments, which are the provisions of the draft under discussion, the National Defence Committee identified the interest groups involved and invited them to the Commission meeting on 29 May. In particular, this concerns an acoustic weapon designed solely for firing blank ammunition. Acoustic weapons are used for, for example, reproduction of historical events, parade or sporting events. Among those invited, representatives of Front Line Eesti MTÜ took part in the National Defence Committee meeting, who confirmed that amendments by the Ministry of Internal Affairs were necessary. They have been waiting for these changes for more than ten years and already comply with the proposed requirements. But there are no uniform legal regulations. The representatives of Front Line Eesti MTÜ expressed their hope that the changes will be legalised during this year. As has been said, they have been waiting for a very long time for the regulation on acoustic weapons. As a result of the above, the National Defence Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, decided to initiate the draft amendment of the law under discussion on 6 June 654, in particular in view of the time-critical situation. In particular, in addition to their regulation on acoustic weapons, it is important that, including by 14 September, Directive 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC should have been transposed. This is also an important objective of the draft. The directive, which I mentioned, lays down the definitions of warning, signal and acoustic weapons and, given the security and security aspects, measures are taken to reduce the offences they commit. This is a European directive that Estonia has promised to adopt by 14 September. It's September 20th, looking at the date, so we're late for it anyway. This directive is based on the principle that common rules are important. Several Member States of the European Union have different understandings and rules regarding the handling of such weapons. In order to prevent criminals from applying different rules in the Member States of the European Union to their advantage, decisions taken at European Union level must result in a harmonised approach. Due to the changes made in the regulation at European Union level, it is also necessary to clarify the arms law, which we are doing with this draft. According to the draft, there will be no substantial changes to the Estonian arms policy, the principles already in force in the Arms Act will be maintained, and the issues that have not been regulated will be regulated by the law in order to ensure uniform treatment. As a representative of the initiator of the draft act, I would like to ask for support for the rapid processing of this draft act, in particular as regards the implementation of the European Union Directive. The Committee on Legal Affairs, which is actually processing this draft, has set the deadline for the submission of amendments on 4 October, but the representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs himself is already speaking. So, the power in the process!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U54	Thank you. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U55	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm not a gun nut, but that's the kind of thing that attracted my attention. The Firearms Directive must be transposed, and hastened to do so. First there's a bill of 615, now it's 654. But I'm asking why only partially take over. Which part and why aren't we taking over? What does this part contain?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U56	Thank you. I did not understand at the moment whether the questioner was referring to European directives or what exactly. But what we are taking over is the use of warning, signal and acoustic weapons within the scope of the Arms Act. Those rules have not yet been simply established in Estonia. These weapons are being used, but now regulation is being put in place: handling them, repairing them, repairing them, responsibility for them. With regard to the rest of the European Union directive, our arms law already meets its requirements. We do not need, as I have already mentioned, to make any other changes to our arms law. This is the part we want to improve. And there's the other side. If you look at the bill, you'll see that there's a series of terms and so-called approximations so that we can understand the terms in the same way. This draft law is not very long, to a significant extent it is technical, but yes, it is the result of a European Union directive. So we are not asking for a substantive amendment to the current arms law with this draft. We are precisely adding signal, acoustic and warning weapons, the use of which is simply unregulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U57	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U58	Let's keep going. We were talking about Directive 2017/853, the Firearms Directive. It says here in black, white, we're taking over some of it. My question was whether this is part of the Firearms Directive, which has so far not been transposed. Are there any other parts, and if so, how big are those parts that have not yet been taken over for some reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U59	Thank you. I have to admit, I'm indebted to this detailed review right now. But I remember the debate that was in the cabinet where I was at the time before the directive was transposed. We have come to a position not to support all the original ideas of the directive, we did not want to over-regulate. There were various provisions concerning semi-automatic weapons, etc. I think that we are taking over not everything that is set out in the directives of the European Union, but what is in accordance with our arms law. Our arms law is more likely to be more liberal than the idea of a directive. But I, a good questioner, ask you to specify which parts will be taken over, which are not. I admit that I have not worked through this whole directive myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U60	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Last year, I remember, the arms law area was changed so that the arms industry would develop in Estonia. There were wider opportunities, which are positive in themselves. But the reason I'm asking is because it sort of put the budget in balance. New jobs had to be created in Estonia and taxes on these jobs had to be implemented in this year's budget. I understand that in the long run, these jobs will be created, but we're talking about this year. How many new businesses and new jobs were created this year in the defence industry due to the amendment of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U62	Thank you, good questioner! This draft concerning the Estonian defence industry was prepared by myself when I was still the Minister of Defence. And certainly there was no argument whatsoever that there was a need to improve the 2019 budget. Absolutely not! It wouldn't even technically have been possible to do that. It has not sounded like such an argument in this Chamber that this year's budget needs to be put in place. In fact, on 1 July, that law entered into force. According to this law, there are a number of security procedures that must also be carried out with our own defence companies. Defence industries must be able to maintain state secrets, arms handling, security, etc. At least six months, if it takes no more time before this change starts to work. At the same time, if we look at Estonia's defence budget, which already amounts to more than 500 million euros, a third of it is boldly money that in the future will perhaps go through us to the defence industry. So the impact on the Estonian economy will still be significant. One thing is the development of knowledge and competence in Estonia, and the other is that we hope, at the very least, that we will provide ourselves with strategic security reserves and ammunition production on our territory. And third, indeed, more jobs are likely to come. But let us be honest, if we now have 650000 people working in the order of magnitude, the arms industry is not what would create a huge number of additional jobs. However, it is important that the money that we invest in Estonia's defence remains as much as possible in Estonia so that it remains in the Estonian industry, Estonian business and ensures the innovation and development of our own weapons industry. That's the logic. I am absolutely certain that this does not directly concern the 2019 state budget, perhaps some marginal amounts will arise. That wasn't a purpose at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U63	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U64	Mr. Waitress! I heard your report at the diner, and I was completely shocked. Is it really the first time that the lengths of hundreds of pages are no longer adopted in bad translation as a euro directives law, and the result is that the quality of Estonian laws is down, but now, instead of automatic transposition, is the first case of intelligent transposition before us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U65	Thank you, dear questioner. I don't know if this is the first such case, but I remember the long procedures involved. They were particularly relevant to the directives on weapons. The government office had repeated discussions on the proposal not to transpose the directive in full and not to go with the European Union on some of the issues that arose at some point with little panic. I mean, these terrorist attacks. The background is, in fact, that when terrorist attacks took place in France and other European countries, it was precisely the introduction of restrictions on the civil possession of weapons throughout the European Union that was put on the agenda. My own view is that Estonia must still be based on its positions and indeed we have left some things out of the law. I think the questioner meant that we will no longer automatically take over or translate everything, but we will discuss the directives in substance. And this is one of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U66	Good waitress, no more questions for you! I would like to ask Raivo Aegis, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a presentation by the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Margus Tsahkna has already talked about the long history of this bill, and he has also given reasons for it. On 10 September 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft law in order to prepare it for the first reading in the large hall. Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Olga Ivanova, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomas took part in the meeting and chaired this session by Jaanus Karilaid. Margus Tsahkna, representative of the National Defence Committee, Veiko Kombusaar, Head of the Department of Law and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and Sven Põierpaas, adviser to the same department and legal adviser to Marju Aiba, were also invited. Basically, Margus Tsahkna has already talked about the substance of the draft, explaining what this is all about. The proposed amendment makes it possible to introduce some new concepts into the Estonian Arms Act, which were not yet in the Estonian Arms Act, and to bring it into line with the provisions and requirements in force in the European Union. These three new concepts are a warning weapon, a signal weapon, and an acoustic weapon. The difference between these things, as has been explained to us, is that the warning and signal weapons are those containing a chamber of cartridges, which allows only blanks and cartridges designed to give a pyrotechnic signal to be used. These weapons cannot be used to release shots or other projectiles by means of gunpowder. They are designed in such a way that they meet these requirements and are not capable of releasing projectiles. The distinctive feature of an acoustic weapon is that it has originally been a firearm, but is later rebuilt in such a way that only blanks can be used, i.e. to produce an acoustic sound effect. There was also a debate. Mr Tsahkna gave the Committee on Legal Affairs a historical overview of the draft law. Toomas Vitsut asked why the law on weapons is so often amended. Veiko Kombusar replied that these were different circumstances. One was the same reason that the final examination of the previous draft initiated by the National Defence Committee would have been delayed and could not have been adopted in the spring. That is why this section was allocated and a new draft was launched. Indeed, there are also a number of requirements arising from European Union directives that need to be transposed into our Code. Urve Tiidus asked that the restrictions on warning and signal weapons be specified. Sven Põierpaas explained that they are the lowest so-called restriction level. The owner of a signal or warning weapon does not need to pass any weapons test, but it is only important that he is at a certain age. Toomas Vitsut asked for clarification as to why the use of an acoustic weapon requires a weapons permit. This is necessary because the acoustic weapon is rebuilt from an original firearm and is very similar to it. It is thus considered appropriate that the keeper and owner of this weapon should still be aware of the requirements for the firearm. He has to pass the theory part of the weapons test, but he doesn't have to perform a practical shooting, or demonstrate how to handle the weapon. You don't have to shoot. Urve Tiidus also asked whether the concept of an acoustic weapon includes weapons the use of which a person does not normally hear. In the dodge, he said he wasn't reading. They are still designed to produce a sound effect and do not include acoustic weapons used for warfare purposes designed to paralyze a person's nervous system or something else. All the decisions taken were taken by consensus. These were: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 20 September, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be 4 October 2018 and Raivo Time as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U68	Thank you, good waitress. There's a question for you. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U69	Thank you. Mr Time, I am essentially asking you the same question I asked Mr Tsahkna. At the beginning of this composition, when Mr Laanet was chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we branded poorly drafted and even worse translated euro directives into legislation over a hundred pages long. You have a pretty thorough experience, too. Is there any explanation for this? Has anything changed in the respective politics of Estonian governments, or how do you explain it, that it is possible that two completely different types of behaviour will be represented during the adoption of the Euro Directives in one Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U70	I can't or can't comment on the government's so-called operating methodology here. However, as Mr Tsahkna has already explained, there was a serious debate on the transposition of this directive at quite a number of levels when it comes to this draft and this European Union directive. Various interest groups were also involved. In addition, at EU level, this Directive formed different stakeholders from countries. There were countries that supported the transposition of this directive by one to one, and there were countries that very clearly called for selection and the possibility of maintaining historical traditions and traditions for the country. For example, with Finland's closest neighbours, we were quite in agreement that it would not be worthwhile to change the existing law if it really threatened the historical standards in the country and if it did not seem to improve anything at all, but rather to create confusion and misunderstandings that are not necessary in today's space of time. So, indeed, there was a very substantive debate on this draft law. And international consultations were also held to harmonise their positions and to go together to defend their position and to clarify it at European Union level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U71	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U73	I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 654. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the draft 654 amendments, including 4 October at 16 a.m. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U74	We will go to the third item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group (634 SE). Hanno Pevkuri, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of our bill is to keep Estonians and Estonians safe. And the starting point for this draft is definitely the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. According to the meaning and content of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Estonian people have clearly stated that citizenship at birth always exists and that citizenship at birth is inescapable. At the same time, we have adopted the Citizenship Act in this very Chamber, the wording of which leaves two interpretations open. The Citizenship Act has created a restriction that a careful official who wants to comply with the law should require a person to give up being an Estonian citizen if he or she wants to be a citizen of the United States at the same time, for example, because he or she lives there and has become a citizen there. According to me and the whole Reform Party, this is a big mistake. Our goal, not only in this hall, but also as heads of state, is to keep Estonians in touch with their homeland, regardless of where they live. No legislation or official's activities must allow the loss of Estonian citizenship at birth. I would like to emphasise once again: we are talking about birth citizens, or those who have become Estonian citizens at birth. The task of the state is to keep Estonians connected to Estonia, not to reject them. It is even immoral and unconstitutional to force Estonian citizens after birth to make a forced choice between Estonian and Swedish, Estonian and US, Estonian and Australia, New Zealand or Swiss citizenship, for example. The purpose of our draft is to resolve this problem, which currently exists in Estonian law, the contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act. Our proposed amendments provide that a native Estonian citizen may, at the same time as Estonian citizenship, enjoy citizenship of the European Union or of the country of the European Economic Area. A native Estonian citizen may also have Swiss, United States, Australia, Canada or New Zealand nationality at the same time. These are countries that share the same values with us as democratic rule-of-laws. Many citizens of these countries are also subject to the right to free movement of persons under European Union law and there is no public interest and reasonable reason not to allow Estonian citizens to have multiple citizenship when these countries are concerned. It must also be taken into account that in many of these countries there has been an Estonian community for a long time. And if such a community exists, it is our job to give these people a message that yes, you are Estonian citizens, and if you have received the opportunity to become a citizen of the country where you live, you are also allowed to do so. But there is a possibility that times will evolve, and if Estonia has the need or desire to allow the citizenship of another country in addition to the list, such an agreement can be concluded. This concern is also resolved in our bill. In fact, we have written a provision in the draft, according to which an Estonian citizen may be a citizen of another country at the same time, if the Republic of Estonia has concluded an agreement on the recognition of several citizenships with that country. So we do not, in principle, exclude the recognition of multi-citizenship with any country, but the assumption is that there is an agreement between the two countries. When we wrote the bill, we considered very much whether there could be other countries on this list. We think that it would certainly be reasonable for Estonia to conclude a multi-citizenship agreement with Georgia and Ukraine as a matter of priority. It is also our wish to amend the Citizenship Act so that if for some reason someone has given up citizenship of the Republic of Estonia in favour of citizenship of the United States of America, for example, it will be possible for him to restore citizenship at birth by a simplified procedure. Of course, the same principle applies when it comes to the same group of countries as mentioned above. There is another problem that we want to resolve with this bill. In fact, according to the Tartu Peace Treaty, there are a number of Estonians who had the opportunity to opt out. The Tartu Peace Treaty provided that these people had to move to Estonia if they wanted to preserve the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia. It was often not possible for people to come to Estonia from Abkhazia, which is why we believe that this historical problem needs to be resolved. Our proposal is to enable people who were meant to have Estonian citizenship as an optimization option, but who were not actually able to come to Estonia. As one small amendment, we have provided for one addition to the Citizenship Act or, more specifically, a clarification concerning citizenship granted for special services. Yes, in the Republic of Estonia it is basically possible to obtain citizenship in two ways: by birth or naturalisation. However, we know that the specific nationality requirements laid down in the Citizenship Act for special services apply. In this respect, most of the citizenship requirements of naturalisation do not apply. Consequently, in our view, it is necessary to clarify that if naturalisation citizenship can, in principle, be taken from a person only if the person concerned is a treasonable person must have entered the service of a foreign military or state or an intelligence or security service, then the citizenship granted for special services is special. It also means that this person must share the values that we consider right here. They're pretty well written in the Aliens Act. More specifically, § 11 of the Aliens Act says that a person living in Estonia must observe the constitutional order of Estonia and Estonian legislation, respect constitutional values and principles, a state based on justice and justice, and the organisation of Estonian society, Estonian language and culture. Finally, I would like to say that citizenship is not absolute unless it has been obtained at birth. And countries have the right to make differences in citizenship law. If you take world practice, you will see that if citizenship is given by the state, not by birth, then people have different rights in different countries until the right to vote is restricted, as well as in some occupations. Perhaps one of the most famous examples is Arnold Schwarzenegger, who cannot stand as President of the United States because he is not a native citizen of the United States. So this debate in this room isn't just a debate in this room. This debate is primarily aimed at people who have lived outside Estonia for decades, who have Estonian citizenship at birth, but either they have had to give it up already or they have lived in fear that maybe they have to give up being an Estonian citizen because they have acquired the right to be a citizen of another country as well. And since they're permanently living there, you'd like to take that citizenship. So external Estonians are primarily subject to this bill, but certainly also those who are now Estonian citizens after birth may at some point move from Estonia to another country, but would like to maintain a link with the homeland and strong roots of Estonia. I am ready to answer the questions and I hope that the first reading of the draft will be completed. This is a very necessary draft, which we may be able to adopt as a law after the second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U76	Thanks for the presentation. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Is there no way to take away citizenship in the current laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U78	Thank you. According to current laws, citizenship can be withdrawn, but there is a very narrow set of rules. As I said, there must, in principle, be a case in which a person has become a citizen of naturalisation and has to have taken up a foreign security or defence service directly. That list's pretty narrow. The Minister of Justice has proposed that we create a rule in Estonian law that would allow people to take away their citizenship if they have received it by naturalisation and have committed the treason of the state in Estonia. We are certainly prepared to include this provision here. But the fact is that the list of cases in which a person can be deprived of citizenship in the Republic of Estonia is short.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U79	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Those people who had the opportunity to opt for Estonian citizenship under the Tartu Peace Treaty will most likely no longer be listed. It is just that time has done its job and this clause can affect their children, grandchildren or even more distant descendants. However, it is clear that the vast majority of these people are currently citizens of the Russian Federation. If this provision enters into force, how do you see the possibility of avoiding double citizenship? Do they have to give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation? Or have you deliberately chosen the path of double citizenship for these people, Estonia and Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U81	Thank you. The answer is very simple: the Russian Federation does not allow double citizenship. If a person wishes to apply for the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia, it is clear that he or she must declare that he or she will renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation, as the right of the Russian Federation does not foresee it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U82	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U83	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question that I also asked in the Commission, but since I did not get an answer to it there, I am asking again here. In your explanatory memorandum, you say nicely that since the Republic of Estonia is a democratic rule of law, it is only justified to impose restrictions that are purposeful and in the public interest. As a result, there is a question of your draft scope. In general, we have that all citizens of the Republic of Estonia are equal in their rights, except for one exception: a native citizen can apply for Presidentship. There are no other differences in status. With this draft, you want to create one additional right for the same type of citizens, which is not granted to others. What is the purpose and public interest of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U84	Thank you. First of all, the purpose of the bill. As I said, the aim of the draft is to eliminate both the substantive and the formal contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act. Secondly, as far as the scope of this draft is concerned, the establishment of the right to citizenship and the principles of citizenship is, in any case, a sovereign right of each country. The Estonian people have adopted, approved and approved the Constitution, according to which only one group has citizenship law and the absoluteness of citizenship law; they are citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth. For all other groups, the State to which it grants citizenship and the additional conditions attached to citizenship shall decide. I also mentioned in my report that, if you look at international practice, there are rights and differences in the countries. We have very few of these differences in Estonia. And since we have an absolute fundamental right to citizenship on the basis of the Constitution related to the succession of birth, it is justified to create this diversity for Estonian citizens after birth. Now, of course, it is always possible to argue about how to deal with the people who are currently living in Estonia and who have been naturalised. But that's another question, it doesn't concern the citizens of birth who are the main scope of this bill. So, yes, the country has the right to make differences in citizenship policy and, in making these differences, it is also possible to agree on double citizenship with other countries. According to the draft, a bilateral transnational agreement is a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U85	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U86	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Ossinovski mentioned, with this bill you will create or increase the rights of different groups of Estonian citizens. My question in this regard is that there is a list of countries for which double citizenship of the Estonian citizen at birth is allowed, and for the rest of the country this is not allowed if there is no separate agreement between these countries. In such a case, would it not be a better solution to propose the way that such a list of countries is not available and it is assumed that multi-citizenship can only be based on transnational agreements?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U87	Thank you. That's one possible solution. As I said in my presentation, our wish was, in fact, to address clearly Estonians who live as large communities in certain countries. And, of course, as far as the European Union and the European Economic Area are concerned, where we belong, when we look at European Union law and the countries of the European Union, there are, in fact, few countries of the European Union that do not have multi-citizenship regulated. So this is one possible solution that you said. We see as a solution rather that we are sending a clear message to Estonians living in both the United States and Australia and Canada that those who are Estonian citizens after birth and forming a very large community away need not be afraid that someone will follow the law of citizenship. We want to make it clear that they have the right to preserve the citizenship of the native Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U88	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U89	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Some questions were asked by a good colleague, Mart Nutt, but I will keep asking. In the committee, you said you had a much longer list of countries. Why did this siege go in that direction? How long did you actually have a list and what were the grounds for defining it? No doubt there are countries with large Estonian communities, but from how important it was to list the country and how small it was not. Surely we are moving in the direction that multiple citizenship is needed. In fact, we in the Commission had a debate in terms of both theory and practice that there could be eight citizenships. How, then, should it be: for example, there may be four countries and there cannot be four countries? There is also this theoretical possibility. Is that reasonable? My second question stems from the regulation on the withdrawal of citizenship obtained on the basis of special merit, which you are offering. It says: "... does not respect' and at the end there are 'the organisation of Estonian society, Estonian language and culture' or constitutional values. How will it be evaluated? Who appreciates it? What are the criteria, the metrics on which it is based?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U90	Thank you. First, answer the first question. Yes, when we started writing the bill, we considered all the options, starting from the fact that we did not write down the list and ending with a list as long as possible. Well, that's the choice of the authors of the bill. In view of the Estonian community and taking into account the links and relations between countries, this list was born. And, as I said, in fact, the addition of Georgia and Ukraine was also quite seriously considered, but in the end we saw the possibility that these countries should be subject to a bilateral agreement rather than to legal provisions. Now, however, the second question concerning citizenship for special services. As usual, in this case citizenship gives and can be taken by the Government of the Republic. Consequently, the so-called preparatory work must normally be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior with its department and the proposal to grant or take citizenship has been brought on the table of the Government of the Republic by the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior. That's the way the process is going. So much more from the list that the substantive debate on this list was held in this hall a few years ago when discussing the law of foreigners, it came from there. So the bike has not been invented here, but it has been based on the same principles that we have already debated once in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U91	Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U92	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your first answer to me, you answered a question I did not ask. Of course, I do not dispute that countries have broad discretion under international law in shaping their citizenship policies. It is absolutely clear that we can do this. That was not the question. The question is how this is consistent with this principle of the Constitution, which says that there must be a legitimate, purposeful and public interest reason for granting different rights to different groups of society. Well, is it right that, for example, a fourth generation American Estonian could automatically be a citizen of one country or another according to this bill, but on the other hand, Ruslan Trochinski cannot? What is the legitimate reason for this diversity of rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U93	Thank you. Just as equality is a fundamental right, citizenship is a fundamental right, and it is equal rights within the meaning of the Constitution. And, of course, as the Constitution says: restrictions can only come from laws or constitutions. The question of citizenship and citizenship, as I said, and which we also argued about in the previous question, is a national decision. And as a result, when comparing these rights, the fundamental right to equality and the inalienableness of citizenship, especially in the case of citizenship at birth, must be decided by the State, and Parliament is the place where this decision is taken. What's this decision going to be, it's the decision of this hall. And as I said, our draft was initiated because we have a fundamental contradiction between the Citizenship Act and the Constitution. This conflict must be eliminated and given a clear message to those who are citizens of the Republic of Estonia after birth and who cannot be deprived of their citizenship that they will not be put to a choice. We do not want to tell them that you give up one nationality yourself because we cannot allow you another nationality in accordance with the Citizenship Act. That is the legitimate aim of eliminating the possibility of a contradiction, not only apparent but also substantive contradiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U94	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U95	Mr. Waitress! In your report, you did not discuss at all the opinion of the Government of the Republic. Perhaps afterwards, probably during the negotiations, someone from your group will do so. But I have to admit that there are quite dramatic statements in this government opinion that I have not heard for decades. It has been said, among other things, that the execution of some part of this draft will undermine Estonia's international reputation and increase the security risk. Would you like to comment on that? However, if you or someone else is going to talk about this later, then this answer could be omitted now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U96	Thank you for your question and for your attention. Indeed, I did not even consider it necessary to draw attention to this, because for me these arguments were incomprehensible. But if we briefly comment on them, it would have increased the security risk for the Republic of Estonia if we had added the Russian Federation to this list. If anyone in this Chamber has the wish to include the Russian Federation in the list and extend this right of double citizenship to naturalisation, it would, of course, most likely increase the security risk. This is certainly not supported by the whole Reform Party as the initiator of our draft. With regard to all the other proposals of the Government of the Republic, I believe that there are differences in the Government of the Republic and between coalition parties on this issue. Surely the coalition partners see this issue resolved differently. That's the price of keeping a coalition. Some of them can support this draft not because it is not right in substance and necessary, but because it comes from the Reform Party, the opposition. If the Minister of Justice would like to resolve the issue of traitors today, after all, he has individualised himself to resolve it, then please, there is a quick solution here. Let him make his amendment; this provision can be incorporated nicely into the draft. In this sense, I also call on the coalition ambassadors sitting in the hall to think about the content of the draft and to resolve the issue of this law of a very large community, tens of thousands of people who do not live in Estonia, but for whom we do not want them to lose contact with their homeland.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U97	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U98	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It seems to me that this debate and the government's position are all somewhat perverse. Each country strives to have as many citizens as possible so that the diaspora wherever its country is held its thumb. Have you understood why the political parties of the coalition of government, and I do not think so much of the Centre Party, as the Socialist and novel Fatherland say that they do not feel warm or cold when foreign Estonians are forced to choose between another country and Estonian citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U99	Thank you. It's hard to figure out. The only understandable reason or explanation would be that they would like to extend this circle to naturalised citizens. This certainly does not go in line with the spirit of the Constitution. But that was a very correct observation regarding the maintenance of the diaspora. Indeed, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it must be the responsibility of each country to keep its people connected to their homeland. If we don't, we're gonna give these people a signal that we don't need them. The Reform Party certainly does not signal that those people who were forced to flee Estonia before World War II do not need the Estonian state. Yes, he does! Their descendants are also in need, and all the other people in the diaspora. We need these people! For this reason, it is generally incomprehensible to me why the government has rejected this draft. The coalition simply fails to rely on its internal convictions for the purpose of maintaining the coalition, at least that can be said of many members of the coalition. I therefore hope gently, however, that there will be people with conscience among the members of the coalition, for whom people living outside Estonia, who make up the Estonian diaspora and who need to be given the message that yes, you are welcome in Estonia, yes, you can also contribute to deciding about Estonia's life.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Can you help me refresh my memory? Is it the seventh or eighth time that the Reform Party has proposed on the table of coalition partners that we make the law of multi-citizenship? Fatherland has always replied that we like the current regime, that we do not play with citizenship and that we do not support double citizenship. I've gotten a little confused with this calculation, but I'm counting on your fresh memory.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U101	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U102	Thank you for that question. In this case, it is absolutely not relevant. The question is whether the grand hall of the Riigikogu considers it right that the diaspora is related to Estonia or not. The apparent or even substantive contradiction between the law of citizenship and the constitution of how someone thinks there is. We know this, and we also learned from the Commission that yes, there has been such a practice in the Police and Border Guard Board that they inform a person that if he or she has citizenship of another country, such as the United States of America, and he or she comes to renew the Estonian passport, he or she must give up the citizenship of the United States of America or Estonian citizenship. But it's not right to give that signal. And I think it is also very important for the voters of the Fatherland, Tarmo, that it is also very important for the voters of the Fatherland that those people who would like to vote for the Fatherland precisely because of their country, so that these people, both in Canada, Australia and the United States, know that they have one party to choose in Estonia. Now that you have 3% support, it's harder for you again. Take this step, give these people a chance, and maybe you can get it back from three to five percent!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U103	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U104	Thank you, good manager. Good speaker! Once again, I would like an explanation, as I certainly do not consider myself a specialist in the area of citizenship law. For me, it was a big surprise when I heard that the Commission was suggesting that the draft be rejected. I participated in countless debates during the summer with representatives of both the Fatherland and the Social Democrats and the Prime Minister's party, and everyone talked about the importance of keeping the diaspora, keeping the connection. And to be honest with you, it's very embarrassing for people you know in front of your outside team today. What is the recommendation on how to proceed if the Commission's proposal really happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U105	Thank you. If the Commission's proposal goes through and this draft is rejected at first reading, then there are several options. The first is that the Reform Party maintains its position. In natural terms, we stick to the fact that polycitizenship for the post-natal population is once again emphasised: it would be right for the post-natal citizens of Estonia. We will re-submit this bill. The second option is that, as this Parliament is running out of time, we will certainly ask our people who live outside Estonia to implement their proposal in the next government. I'm sure it's a subject that doesn't fall anywhere. He's not falling anywhere! If we say that the thousands of people living outside Estonia need not have any connection with Estonia and that we are letting them go, this is a completely wrong signal. I think the people who really are the decision-makers in this Chamber today have to take this into account. We'll see what's right in the election.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U106	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U107	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! You've been in power with your coalition for so many years. Then why didn't you come with this bill? I wonder why you didn't come up with this proposal, let's say, five years ago. But God forbid! You offer in the explanatory memorandum that Estonians from 30 countries will receive its preference. In the world, there are people involved in our country, but perhaps in 200 countries. What's your message to those who don't get on that list?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U108	Thank you. First of all, it's already like a broken record: why didn't you do it when you were... You know, it was the usual. You heard the answer from here on my right hand, looking from you on the left flank. Fatherland said they wouldn't support it. That's the answer. There has not yet been a party in Estonia who would have received 51% of the votes and 51 mandates in this Chamber in the parliamentary elections, and they could have done everything they wanted to do. Actually, it's been really good. This is very important in the interests of democracy. But I very much hope that there will be political parties in the next coalition who will understand that it is important to keep the Estonian diaspora around the world. Of course, the most important thing is where our communities are the largest. Now this question is how many countries are on this list. As I have already replied to Mr Hallemaa, this is a settled and clarified result during the debate. And there was an added provision, which also allows for the conclusion of an agreement on the recognition of multi-citizenship with other countries. This possibility the country will have if there is a need and a desire. As I have already mentioned, and as stated in the explanatory memorandum, first of all, we believe that negotiations with Georgia and Ukraine could take place first. This possibility exists in this bill, it cannot be ruled out. Yes, we have provided for the possibility that Estonians born in other countries, too, would receive a double citizenship permit if the countries agree to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U109	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If we look at the population of the Estonian state and we also talk about population trends, it seems essential that those people who are scattered around the world may be gathered together in one way or the other to support the good of our small country, whether by voting in elections or in other ways. I completely fail to understand whose interests are represented by those political groups that oppose this draft. If we look at how aggressively a larger neighbor acts to keep his people, it seems to me that some are not acting on behalf of our country, but on behalf of someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U111	Thank you. That's the way it is. In fact, the biggest question is for the Fatherland. Tarmo asked about it here for a second. But in my opinion, patriotic behaviour is when all Estonians are tried to keep together and stay in touch, and anti-patriotic is when some Estonians are told that you are no longer welcome home. Of course it is! I therefore recommend, however, that the idea of the Constitution be taken into account. I suggest that we draw on what some of us approved in the referendum on the Constitution: we have said that citizenship at birth is the standard and that the country must keep its citizens at birth. This is a message that we read from the same provision that birth citizenship is unreachable. If we do not give this message, it means that we do not really want to be compatible with the spirit of the Constitution or do not want to follow the spirit of the Constitution. And therefore, the solution can only be one: that today we will finish the first reading of this draft. If anyone wants to make this bill better, please! And we will be able to adopt this law nicely before the Riigikogu elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U112	Helmut Hallemaa, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U113	Good waitress! All political parties, regardless of the percentage with which you waved here, will probably keep in touch with the Estonian diaspora. But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. Today is certainly a matter of multi-citizenship. We also did well in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And one of our high-ranking statesmen and his descendants apparently wants this multiple-citizenship opportunity in the same way. My question is this: when you prepared this draft, did you compare our country to other countries around the world? How have they solved this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U114	Thank you. Of course, we looked into how it was solved. In the European Union, I think I have a memory to say now, I do not have a bill with me in four or five countries that have been banned from multi-citizenship are not allowed. One of them is Estonia. If you look at the wider world, you will find opportunities for citizenship that are considerably wider than in Estonia. In Estonia, it is limited only to naturalisation. Naturalisation is then required for a certain time to live in Estonia, etc., unless it is a special provision which is citizenship for special services. There are countries that, for example, give citizenship when you marry: if you marry a citizen of another country, you will immediately be granted citizenship. So the world practice of citizenship is very different. But the general principles of citizenship in international law are ius soli and ius sanguinis, i.e. citizenship at birth and citizenship at the place of the parents' nationality. There are very many differences and there is one important argument in making them. This is an important argument that the granting of citizenship is a decision of the State, unless it is a nationality at birth. And if it isn't, then it's also the nationality of the location. These two principles are generally accepted in international law, all others being the decision of the State itself, including the authorisation or non-authorisation of multiple citizenship and the imposition of additional rights or restrictions arising from multiple citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U115	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U116	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In my opinion, the next Riigikogu elections, i.e. the elections that will be held in the spring of 2019, ask for a mandate in the area of citizenship to basically hold two directions. One direction is that Yana agreed with Toom Jüri Ratas, i.e. lighter Estonian citizenship, zero citizenship: everyone becomes an Estonian citizen, even without knowledge of the language and without knowledge of the Constitution. And the other direction is what you represent when you are on the remote: all those who cherish Estonia do not have to choose whether to be a citizen of the other country to which they have come or an Estonian citizen. What choice do you think a person who cares about Estonia should make as a small country in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U117	Thank you. Of course, I can only express my personal conviction: the Estonian state will never take such a position that whoever comes here and whatever it does will become a citizen of the Estonian state. No! The acquisition of naturalisation is a completely legitimate way, but the assumption is that, yes, I promise to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia. The prerequisite for this is that you speak the language of the Estonian state. And the prerequisite for that is that you have lived here in Estonia for some time. These are the assumptions that must, in any case, be. As far as birth citizens are concerned, there is not even something to argue about. In the case of birth citizens, the dispute is only about whether we keep them as attached to Estonia as much as possible or not. If you ask what choice should be made by the person facing this choice, then, of course, everyone does it according to their preferences, but it is, of course, my desire that we stick to the Estonians and we stick together. We're few, we're 1.3 million. Let's put the diaspora on, maybe we can get 1.4 million, but it's still not enough. And every step that potentially reduces the number of Estonians in the world, every step towards this choice should be non-tolerable. So this is the choice of the country. I trust in the sensible choice of the Estonian people, I hope that the people will also give a clear signal in the elections which direction is right. I am convinced that the right direction is that citizenship is not shared from the plane, without confirmation that a person who wishes to become an Estonian citizen is faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and the cultural norms in force here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U118	Honourable member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, every member of the Riigikogu can ask two questions and reclining can only be submitted in negotiations. So I'm sorry! No further questions for you, Mr. Pevkur. I invite Jüri Adams, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to give a presentation by the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U119	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs was currently dealing with the draft at one meeting, namely Tuesday 11 September. Two state officials took part in our meeting: Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior and Koidu Bee, adviser to the same department. We had also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic, to which I will come in a moment. This opinion has been signed by Minister Indrek Saar in his capacity as Minister of the Interior. And the Dawn Bee, who took part in our hearing, is one of the authors of this opinion. I'll start at the very end. In fact, the Commission's decision (6 votes against) was to propose that the Riigikogu plenary vote reject this draft at first reading. This means that, after my presentation, negotiations will be opened in which the representatives of the political groups will have the opportunity to make a speech, and then there will be a vote. Now, a little bit of the substance of the bill. There are a number of issues in this draft that differ in size, and I would like to mention three of them. The least important issue is whether and how the government should be able to take away, if there is any reason, Estonian citizenship from people who have received this citizenship for special services. In the Riigikogu, Mart Nutt, the biggest expert on citizenship issues, has undoubtedly given us an expert opinion. From his point of view, the grant of citizenship for special services is one of the special forms of naturalisation of citizenship and, if it is possible to withdraw naturalisation citizenship, if there is reason to do so, it should also be possible to withdraw citizenship granted for special services. I figured we never had a case like this. The second question has been going around Estonia for several years. It is known from history that after Estonia's independence, many Estonians outside Estonia, who remained in parts of the former Russian Empire, opted for Estonian citizenship for their future, but very many of them never made it to Estonia for various reasons. The debate is about whether their descendants of several generations should already have Estonian citizenship, so if they come and wish, they will also receive an Estonian passport, or it should not be that way. I do not see the end of this dispute at this time, but at least there is one Supreme Court ruling that is contrary to what I have just described. The third and most important issue is this. Our Citizenship Act at least literally prohibits the existence of several citizenships of Estonian citizens. The proposal is to amend this one fundamental principle and replace it with the principle of acceptance of several citizenships, but not absolutely that it should be for everyone and at any time, but to allow some sort of intermediate option to be found. Now let's see what the experts told us and what the government's position is. The government's position states quite dramatically that if such a legislative amendment enters into force, the reputation of the Estonian people at international level could be damaged and the threat to public order and state security increased. Together with the opinion of the experts, the basic logic was that we have basically two types of citizens in legal terms: those who have acquired citizenship by birth, and others who have subsequently received it by some other legal means. These people should not be subject to any further distinctions that people in one group have rights that others do not have. Rather, the moral of the government's opinion is that if such differences exist, the Estonian state should work to eliminate them or at least minimise them. So here is such a fundamental point of debate. In addition, it was interesting to note that a number of fundamental opinions were also published, which are important in this respect. For example, Ruth Dosage's words are recorded in the protocol in such a way that Estonia is a democratic rule of law, which means that there must be a legitimate goal to treat persons differently and to impose restrictions. Let this pair of words mean a 'legimate goal' of whatever it is, it's probably a matter of our determination. The words of the Member of the Commission, Mr Ossinovski, have been recorded in such a way that this draft is a political choice which has no legitimate purpose. So these opinions differ between the draft authors, experts and different political forces. I have nothing more important to mention about this committee's debate; the Commission did not go into this very seriously. I'd be happy to answer your questions in case there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U120	Thank you. Question one. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U121	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! If there were such different concepts, did the answer be found whether citizenship, as such, had changed in its nature through time? Is this a mere obligation or a technical right to realise anything today? Have you discussed this in the Commission, what citizenship is in today's sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U122	No, we have not specifically discussed this at any of the meetings, but I think that the Members of the Commission have all, to one degree or another, encountered these issues. We have a certain risk of becoming fascinated by abstract, legal concepts and forgetting what their content might be. One of the newest terms that has been introduced in Estonia is'multiple citizenship'. It is a rather bucvalistic translation of the expression multiple citizenship, which of itself means no citizenship whatsoever. It's one, I'd say, an instrument of law research, but no more. Previously, the term "double citizenship" was used in Estonian in Estonian, which does not mean that there should be only two citizenships of more than one person. This is a word that has become obsolete today because of the increasing influence of English terminology. Of course, an attempt has been made in Estonia to create a single list of people in the world who have Estonian citizenship. I do not know how well this has worked or whether it is fundamentally necessary. But I think it is necessary to look behind the abstraction, which is its content. Today, citizenship is certainly no longer the same as before World War II when it could be said that it is a legal relationship between one country and one person, where each of them has rights and obligations of some kind. Today, these elements, rights and obligations have undoubtedly decreased. A person has almost no maintenance obligations towards the country of which he is a national. Only one obligation can be mentioned in Estonia. In fact, some men have a duty to serve in the army of the Estonian state and, if necessary, to join the army in the event of mobilization. This is the most important feature. As far as rights are concerned, there are three in practice. First of all, the right to receive documents issued by the Estonian state means travel documents and identity documents. Secondly, the right to take part in elections, to vote at least in Riigikogu elections, this right should be granted to all citizens within certain limits. And the third thing is that if a person is of the same age, he should also have the right to qualify for Riigikogu elections. I dare say that if we take a person who has never been a candidate, never voted in Estonia, never asked the Estonian state for any documents or received any documents, then it is practically impossible to say that this person is an Estonian citizen. He is only a certain way, latently or potentially an Estonian citizen, but it does not appear in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U123	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! My question has two parts. I draw a follow-up question from the previous answer: is the meaning field of the word'multiple citizenship' quite novel to me also covering something that is not covered by the 'double citizenship' that we used in the past? Is the parallel use of these terms justified, or what is the justification? And the general question is this. The law does not allow us, in essence, double citizenship, but at the same time we know that precedents exist, and this is a kind of hypocrisy. There is another problem here too: there is one country from which we want data and where we usually do not get it about whether a person has multiple nationality. And how well does this bill contribute to solving these problems? And is there anything important that we should note in the further processing of the bill if that proves possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U125	I'm not an expert in this field, maybe someone else can respond a little better later or somewhere else. One close concept of'multiple citizenship' is 'European Union citizenship'. This means that all those who are nationals of a Member State of the European Union have, in addition, a common legal status which, for example, entails the possibility that, if that person resides in another Member State of the European Union, he or she will also enjoy certain political rights there. So this is one of the latest developments. However, in the case of Estonian citizens, the Estonian state has accepted at least tens of thousands of people who have the citizenship of another country since their restoration. And now, in this period of mass emigration from Estonia, these people have grown ever more. In general, the situation is that when we restored the Estonian state, there was still such a rule in Europe that the person had the citizenship of one country. Quite rarely, there was the possibility that he had the nationality of another country at the same time, and there were various restrictions. At present, this situation has changed in the opposite direction, at least in European countries. At least that a national of a Member State of the European Union may have the nationality of another Member State of the European Union shall be accepted, and the number of such double or multiple citizens shall be on an overall upward trend. I don't know if we've crossed that line. But my main point is that the principles in this area of law before World War II, as well as those that dominated when the independence of the Estonian state was restored, have become largely anachronistic. In the light of the current increase in the overall movement, working in another country and all these things, the development is rather such that the importance of 'national citizenship' is increasingly declining and, at the same time, opportunities for other citizenships are increasing. Things are changing not because the legal construction has changed, but because the reality of life has changed. At least the law of the Estonian state tends to lag behind in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U126	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, The reason for taking away citizenship for special services, as I read out of this, is when a person does not respect the country. Respect is the kind of category you don't funnyly see in the law. Has the Commission discussed what respect and respect are in terms of legislation? Is there some kind of action behind this? If a person respects the state, he may have to stand on his knees before the House of Stenbock once a month or before the Riigikogu, something like that, right? Otherwise, he does not specifically respect constitutional values and principles here. I haven't seen a list of these values and principles anywhere in the law to find out if a person respects them or doesn't respect them. Have you discussed this, and what is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U128	Mr Stalnukhin, thank you for your question. This is one of the few times during our simultaneous presence in the Riigikogu, if I fully agree with you. I've never seen a list like this before. And, as far as I know, no significant number of cases of this kind have ever arisen in Estonia. I assure you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not specifically discuss this'sub-problem' in this sitting, nor has it done so in any other sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U129	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U130	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! The initiator's waitress outlined the draft as one of the objectives of § 8 of our Constitution inconsistency with the Citizenship Act. What kind of treatment did you have in the Commission? Was this contradiction recognised and, if so, what solutions would be possible? Or was it thought that the contradiction was normal, let it continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U131	We did not discuss this issue very separately in the Commission either. But to comment, I can say that in none of Estonia's earlier constitutions has the topic of citizenship been discussed at all, it was only at the level of the law. When Estonia's independence was restored, the Constitutional Assembly considered it necessary that this topic be included in the new Constitution. Overall, this wording fell out much more categorical and radical than had been the basis for any of the draft Constitutional Assembly's work. This about the constitution, in my view, that no one should be deprived of the citizenship acquired by birth, must be analysed from two points of view. First of all, what it meant during the Constitutional Assembly. I think it was a clear response from the Constitutional Assembly to the debates that took place at that time on how the future would be with the foreign Estonians who had left before the Second World War or for some other reason and time. Essentially, this sentence says that the Estonian state wants to keep these people as its citizens, we do not reject them. While reading this text of the Constitution very bucvalistically, certain problems arise here. At least in Latin America, the descendants of Estonian citizens have once migrated there, and several hundred people have applied for an Estonian travel document and the Estonian state has given it to them. This is only because these people can demonstrate their biological origin: they are related to Estonian citizens who have ever migrated there by some route, more than three, four or five generations. In my opinion, there is a certain absurdity in it and it undermines the existence of the Republic of Estonia. We should at least accept that in such situations, the automatic right to Estonian citizenship should subside or fade, as has been the case in many other countries. This is the case for the Irish, for example, who have a huge diaspora, especially in North America. Every Irish person living there is not automatically considered an Irish national. But if a person expresses a wish and shows that that desire is serious, then Ireland also gives citizenship. I think that this would also be necessary in Estonia. Indirectly, we have the same problem with the descendants of those optants who did not arrive here at their time. If we are dealing with people whose many previous generations have not wanted to be Estonians and who have not demonstrated that they are Estonian citizens in any way, how must we deal with them? In my opinion, the state of Estonia should also find some reasonable solution here to the pure blood relationship over generations, however, citizenship cannot be deduced. There must be some other elements. And certainly these matters should be decided on a case-by-case basis, not on the basis of the general rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U132	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Vice-Chairman of the Good Committee on Constitutional Affairs! I have listened very carefully to your presentation, but I was not distracted by the familiar talk that took part in this committee meeting where this issue was discussed. I am thinking precisely of the representatives of the target groups affected by this draft. My question is whether there were representatives of them and, if not, whether they were asked for an opinion. In case they were not asked for an opinion, have you, as rapporteur for the commission, communicated with these target groups and asked for their opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U134	No, they were not there at the Commission meeting, and we do not know at the moment any specific organisations that could represent one or the other interest group. I also do not know that more written opinions have been received on these matters. I personally have had contact with the various people and opinions that are in these matters from wall to wall. First of all, many voters have pointed out the problem that Estonians who have migrated from Estonia and live in other countries have taken citizenship for various reasons, such as social security or better education for children. But it does not follow that they are less Estonian patriots or that they will not want to return to Estonia with or without their children in the future. At the same time, they have problems with how to update Estonian documents. They have certain fears. In the light of Estonia's national policy interests, perhaps the most serious concern is that these people have lost the habit of participating in the Estonian elections, the Estonian state has not been able to maintain relations. That's one question. That's another thing. I have also heard such opinions as at an event in Pilistvere some time ago. When I raised the question of citizenship there, Minister Reinsalu came to me and asked a completely legitimate question whether my political will is that I would like to give all non-citizens living in Estonia, basically, the opportunity for Russian people to be at the same time Estonian citizenship and Russian citizenship. I must admit, I am shocked by this primitive approach to whether there is only this possibility or only another possibility. The Member States of the European Union, including our closest neighbours Latvia and Lithuania, have implemented a wide range of very flexible options. One is the same thing that is in this draft: lists are drawn up of countries for which it is impossible for the Republic of Estonia to accept the existence of its own people as their nationality, such as Russia or any other such country. At the other extreme, there are countries where problems are not seen and the will of people to be in multiple citizenships is accepted. And there's some sort of intermediate possibility. I have also heard that some European countries do not use this principle of compartmentalisation of simplified countries, but make decisions based on the data and characteristics of a particular person. Unfortunately, I can't put this review in front of you right now. We once had an advisor in the Free Party Group, Sergei Metlev, who examined this issue separately. I have lost his investigation report, but I remember that the picture is like this, maybe I'm wrong about something, that there are currently three countries in the European Union that do not accept double citizenship or the possibility of multiple citizenship at all. Estonia is one of them. No number of countries are restricting at all on these issues, and some countries have solved it somehow on the basis of their national interests. For me, the question arises here: if the Government's opinion states that, on the way forward, the Estonian state would violate the principle of equality under our constitution, how will it be with the other European countries that have formally violated this principle of equality for decades? It doesn't look like a problem. If we go ahead with this work, I think that the first thing should be to change the understanding of our officials rather than the officials of the Ministry of the Interior. As I understand it, the idea that in the Citizenship Act, even one hair could fall, or that it could somehow be bent differently than it is. You can't change anything in there for God's sake, or if you do, it's only the way they write in the bill. However, we do not have very clear source and benchmark data on how other countries have solved the same issues that have arisen before us today, and which solutions have worked better and which are worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U135	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U136	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Knowing from the background that you are the Constitutional Cryphate in Estonia, isn't the idea that we actually have two laws, a Constitution and a Citizenship Act in this Chamber at the moment, which clearly contradicts each other? The Citizenship Act makes it quite clear that a person loses his or her citizenship, but a little later it says again that birth citizenship cannot be lost. Should these matters not be corrected, whether in the light of legal or legal principles, so that these laws are compatible with each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U137	Here's my answer. As I said before, I also see certain problems with the corresponding paragraph of this constitution. It can be handled absurdly, while it can also be handled and interpreted sensibly. As regards the Citizenship Act adopted in 1995, I believe that there were contradictions in it from the outset. It is written how to say wishful thinking or how this wishful thinking is now translated into Estonian. The ideal is a situation that was not already achievable in reality at that time and which is not at all achievable at this time. In my opinion, the contradiction between our national interests and the current Citizenship Act is constantly increasing and we have reached a screaming situation. I am pleased that the Reform Party has marked these basic things with such a draft. I promise myself here such an old man's comment that, in my opinion, this is one of the first important signs of how well the Reform Party is affected by not being in government and being in opposition. Now such opportunities have arisen and are not based solely on the opinion of Ruth Dosage or other officials and experts. I'm happy for that. But in my opinion, the state of Estonia would probably need a completely new text of the Citizenship Act. Such a thing cannot be produced by individual members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees; it should be the work of one normal Ministry of Justice. I don't see anyone doing this these days, or in the coming years, there could be forces in the frame of the current Ministry of Justice to make a mistake. So in this sense, repairing the most screaming woes on the move with the drafts initiated by the Riigikogu could be a factor in accelerating the development of the matter in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U138	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I am surprised, too, that our views have, in a certain sense, collapsed, but this is a lyrics-- we have a specific bill here. Has the Commission discussed this matter at this very point: '... does not respect [---] the organisation of Estonian society'? The organisation of Estonian society is such a broad concept. Take, for example, the local government level if a person does not like the way in which it is organised, for example, to clean up garbage. Sometimes a person is unsatisfied and clearly does not respect the way the organized medical system is or has become a problem for him in the field of education. Is that reason enough to take away his citizenship because he does not respect that arrangement?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U140	Mr. Stalnukhin, I must repeat my previous answers. The Commission has not discussed these matters at least on the occasion that I have been present. So I have nothing to tell you about that. As far as this text is concerned, first of all, I do not possess it. I can understand what the political desire of the people who once wrote such a text was. But I don't have any data on whether it's been used in any way, and if so, because and how much it's been used. On the other hand, the history of European democracies shows us that, in principle, a citizen should have the right to oppose the regime in force in his own country and also to demand that laws, or even the constitution, be changed to the contrary. These things should be tolerated. Such an attitude becomes a problem only when it is no longer the views of individual, relatively few or strange people, but it becomes the views of some kind of mass political movement. In the case of individuals, I personally would see no problem of any kind, perhaps because I have lived most of my life in the Soviet Union, where there was a particularly painful view when someone publicly questioned the goodness of Soviet law and the legitimacy of Soviet practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U141	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We are talking about up to 200000 people of Estonian nationality who are either periodically or more permanently abroad. That is why I am asking more broadly whether the Commission has linked this whole issue of citizenship to the problems of return migration. All the more so since our economic conjuncture is so good that there may not be better times to encourage return migration, more generally, to link Estonians abroad to Estonian culture and Estonian state. To what extent was this broader background above the issues of citizenship, or how should we see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U143	What can I tell you? The Commission has not specifically discussed this issue, but this aspect has also been raised during the discussions on various other issues. One thing I have even tried to prove in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that we have about 80,000 people in the population register as Estonian citizens, who have the right to vote. In the population register, they are called persons residing permanently outside Estonia. These individuals are increasingly subject to a tendency to lose their bond. Among other things, in the context of electoral laws, it is that they are essentially excluded from the elections, they do not exercise this fundamental right. Why is it like that, I don't know. During the discussion of another draft, we had another question. As unemployment has decreased significantly in Estonia, jobs have increased and wages have increased, many people have returned here. It is not known to me that the Estonian state is currently carrying out some kind of programme to make it easier for them to come back. There are certainly reports that they have great difficulty in finding kindergarten places for their children and that they also have difficulty finding suitable school places for their children. These are actually important questions. I have argued in one of the writings that the Estonian state in its time almost ignored the phenomenon of emigration that we had. And now it seems that the Estonian state repeats the same disregard for the phenomenon of return. If you go further than this, this could be one of the topics of the party election campaigns that are approaching. Why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U144	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U145	Thanks for that last explanation, too. I will continue on the same subject. It is very sad to hear that the Commission did not really seek the opinion of the law from about 120,000 Estonians living abroad who do not have Estonian citizenship or whose right to vote is not registered. They are certainly also organized into alliances all over Estonia. The next summer will be the big congresses of the Estonian Republic, the ESTO days. You yourself mentioned that it is regrettable that their communication with Estonia has been interrupted, while the Commission's position is as it is. Has the Commission discussed such an issue as the constituency of external Estonia? I know your party partner has supported the idea, at least the need to analyse it. Has that been the case? And maybe you'll say your personal position, too, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U146	I do not recall that this issue of the constituency has ever been seriously raised in the Commission. But yes, I know that my partymate Sirje Kiin has tried to raise this issue. Formally speaking, it could be completely: if we have 80000 million people as potential voters in this constituency, then it is more than one Estonian average electoral district in terms of the number of voters. So theoretically, if you take numbers as a reference, why not? But let's see what these people's election behaviour has been. Basically, at the last three parliamentary elections outside Estonia, the number of voters living abroad has been fixed at 5000. Compare these figures to 5,000 and 80,000 or 100,000. In general, participation in the Riigikogu elections in Estonia is between 60% and 70%, with two thirds in the middle. In the case of the foreign electoral district, we would probably get a very difficult starting position in the first round of elections where 5% of voters vote. The second question is that I personally have very serious doubts about all the data in our population register. There's such a profound flaw in it. I personally know very many people who live and work mostly outside Estonia, which is in no way reflected in the population register. And when they vote, they usually vote with their ID-cards as if they were permanently in Estonia. I also doubt all figures, because we have such a situation. Latvians and Lithuanians, in a sense, find it easier to control their large numbers because those who work abroad are, as a rule, quite distant from their home country and rarely go back to their home country. But we have this situation with working in Finland that we do not have a reliable numerical picture of how these things really are. From the point of view of exact statistics, we can say that this is our accident. But, in fact, working in Finland is a deep happiness compared to working in, for example, the Lithuanians in Great Britain or Ireland, when you think about the linguistic proximity and, on the other hand, driving it back and forth. After all, a large number of workers abroad are commuting at a rather high frequency between their country of residence and their country of employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U147	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U148	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have listened to you here very carefully now, but I am honestly saying that I have not really understood you. And I have a question about your personal opinion. Can you say briefly or for my sake at length or justify whether you believe that double citizenship should be allowed in Estonia if there are certain conditions for Estonian citizens after birth?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U149	Mr. Randpere, my answer is yes, and there are two reasons for this. First of all, it already exists. To pretend that it does not exist and to state in the law that we prohibit it is to deny a fact that is not worthy of the inner integrity of one country. I think that first of all, we have to admit that the situation is what it is. On the other hand, I think that legal opportunities must be created. I am not saying that this means the possibility or acceptance of double citizenship for all people and for all countries, a matter of national interest must be found. And I am not at all sure that, within this area, we should never, perhaps a little later, deal with people who have received citizenship in the naturalisation procedure. But it makes sense to approach it one step at a time. At first, the problems of birth citizens should be organised, no substantively non-portable citizenship should be ruled out, and then it should be handled sensibly in the case of others. As to how much international agreements can be concluded here in the future and whether they are needed at all, I cannot give an explanation at the moment. But the political situation is that this area of law is stuck. The situation is no longer adequate and there is a way to get from a dead point first.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U150	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U151	Thank you. I also have a more personal question. I have seven children for two husbands, one of whom I am a real mother and the other six, either a stepmother or a father's husband. Currently, five of them live, work or study in another European country. All of them are Estonian citizens who have participated in Estonia's life so far and also participated in elections. One of the daughters, my husband's eldest daughter, has lived and worked in England for 11 years. We went to London this weekend and he asked us a very specific question about how he should act now. With regard to Brexit, he must soon choose whether he or she will take British citizenship because of his or her husband or continue to be Estonian citizens, so that he or she will not lose his or her rights even after Brexit. The question is, what else should I possibly answer to some of my children from this point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U152	What can I say to you? If they are Estonian citizens who have Estonian documents and who participate in the Estonian elections, this should be almost the maximum of our national interests. We could, of course, still wish that they would come to their homeland permanently, but these opportunities are not very dependent on us. I do not know how it will turn out in England after Brexit, but if there are going to be some sort of thing like this going on there, it will be demanded that these people, your children, declare that they are giving up Estonian citizenship, then I think this would be an exceptionally stupid situation. The Estonian state should act in this direction in order to try to prevent or at least minimise it. I can't imagine that it would be too big a question for Britain. In any case, we should not put anyone in a position where the Estonian Ministry of the Interior has learned that a person has formalised English citizenship, which is at present whatever name he is called, says the official of the Estonian Ministry of the Interior that we now consider you out of Estonian citizenship. Mr Pevkur told us in the Commission that at the time he was the Minister of the Interior, one of his achievements at least seemed to me to be proud of the fact that he had banned the practice of the behaviour of officials who had been before he was a minister. And, of course, here is the very issue of the contradictions of the law that we talked about. Neither as individuals nor as an Estonian state can we prohibit the granting of citizenship to people in England. There is no way we can influence the behaviour of this great country. And we certainly cannot, or at least we do not have the moral right to tell your children or anyone else if they have an important reason why they also want to formalise English citizenship, that they must necessarily give it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U153	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Mr Stalnukhin asked for an explanation of how one regime or state is respected. He also talked about kneeling down here on the field. I didn't understand who he was talking about. Kneeling can be both a tribute and a manifestation of slavery, and maybe it's more convenient for someone to kneel on the Red Square. I am upset at the idea that one must be loyal to one's country and, if this country is not loyal, it is as if there is no opportunity or right to withdraw citizenship. My question is with a view to the future. If, for example, a person has been granted citizenship for special services, it is probably now possible to take that citizenship away from the naturalisation proceeds for treason. In the future, war will also mean a hybrid war, it may be a different action, not just being on Toompea with a gun.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U155	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U156	Do you consider it fundamentally right that if a person has betrayed the country and has been convicted of it, then he could be deprived of his citizenship? How do you look at it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U157	My general view is that I am not impressed with texts such as Mr Stalnukhin has written. In my opinion, the writing of such texts into Estonian law is, as if, a form of agitation for the tuning of our Russian population against the Estonian state. That's the first thing. The other thing is that I am not in favour of the idea that if someone becomes in political demand to exclude them from Estonian citizenship, it should necessarily go through court. I think it should be a discretionary decision of the executive. In general, we have had the decisions to enter and expel the Government of the Republic to make. It could be like that. If there is a political case, the appeal is likely to follow the court of first instance, the court of second instance and then the Supreme Court. But there's no need for the opposite route to be brought to justice, and it's going to go to all levels of justice for ten years. I don't think it's rational.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U158	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U159	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Following this discussion, I understand that you, as Vice-Chairman of the Commission, support the idea of this draft. But I have a question about an example of the world that I ask you to give. Indeed, different national approaches to giving birth citizenship can cause problems for people living in our country. I will give an example when Estonian parents have a child in the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U160	First of all, Mrs Purga, the fact that I officially hold the title of Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and receive a slightly higher salary does not make any sense. I'm only in this situation. At least the current chairman of the commission is the one who organises the work of the committee with his coalition associates. He's never asked me for an opinion, and I don't think there's any hope that it could ever happen. I've got it all figured out. If I am not mistaken, in some strange situation, I was able to chair the meeting of the committee during this Riigikogu for 20 minutes. It's my only proof of the future that I've been wearing that title. As far as support for this draft is concerned, yes, I personally believe that raising this issue is a step in the right direction. And my personal opinion is that it is not very wise to exclude this draft from the procedure on this subject. There are, as we know, two ways of "repressing" unpleasant drafts: one is to vote them out at first reading and the other is to put them under forever. In my opinion, another option would be more sensible, especially if it were to be accompanied by some kind of work on this by Commission officials. But this is pre-election time, and I understand that the government coalition has made a decision here in the Riigikogu in the form of its leading persons. But I doubt that very much, because it is not a problem that disappears from the agenda. Did I miss something or did I forget? I don't think so. I answered everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U161	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U162	Thank you. Good George, I'm giving you a chance to continue the same debate a little bit. Heidy also asked about some examples. This question does not really concern only the diasporas. This also applies to people who are having children in an increasingly globalised world, one parent having one citizenship and the other parent having another citizenship. At birth, these children will be able to obtain different citizenships. How do you feel about it? In today's globalizing world, is it wise to make a choice at the age of 18 for you to give up the roots of one parent?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U163	I do not know the laws and rights of citizenship in other countries so thoroughly that I can respond to it. The first thing about double citizenship is that when we say that one person has more than one citizenship, it creates an idea that it is something wholesome and interconnected. In fact, if, for example, the Estonian state looks at one child as our citizen, and the United States looks at that child in the same way as our citizen, then Estonia and America do not have to agree on it; they do not have to take each other's opinions into account. These are completely independent opinions that may contradict each other's cross. One country may deny another, for example, but it cannot impose its own opinion on another country. So in that sense, it's partly oversimplified. Double citizenship is not about itself. It is one fact of life when two or more countries look at one person, such as you, and say that aha, that is our citizen, we allow him to stand as a candidate, we give him a document, we allow him to vote in our elections. These citizenships are not necessarily linked and do not need to be consistent. There is a second part to this question. I do not know about other countries, but in the Estonian Citizenship Act and in the Citizenship Act currently in force, one of the most important issues is the potential of citizenship. This means that if the child cannot choose for himself or herself, if his or her parents decide for the child, he or she will be able to become an adult and have the right to change the choice of his or her parents. For example, if the parents have decided that the child must be a Finnish or Russian citizen, and the child will eventually grow up and say that I really want to make another decision, then he is right. This is also a broader question, because we have a wide range of countrymen living abroad who do so or who at least must have the right to do so. In addition, there are people who, for example, have announced at some stage of their life that they do not want to be Estonian citizens. In my opinion, our law allows them to admit their former opinion erroneously and to withdraw Estonian citizenship. So I don't see any problems in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U164	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U165	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for your comprehensive answer to my previous question. I will ask you about one part of my question that has not been answered. Good waitress, please give some concrete examples of a world where different national approaches to birth citizenship can cause problems for people living in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U166	I have no concrete example to give you. Nobody told me he had that kind of problem. So that's the argument again. In my opinion our theoretical understanding and life practice do not really come together: the practice goes its own way and the theory goes its own way. But I think that if you ask the same question, for example, to Ruth Doll of the Ministry of the Interior, she can certainly give you a variety of examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U167	Aivar Surva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I also remembered that the words of Ruth's Dose were specifically mentioned there. He was referring to a legitimate purpose. I didn't know exactly what the key was. Evgeny Ossinovsky's words were similarly highlighted. He claimed that this was a political decision, not a legitimate goal. Did the Commission discuss this? Was there any position reached that is important here, either political decision-making or a legitimate goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U169	The word set 'legimate purpose' is not very precisely defined. I am not going to comment here on Mr Ossinovski's minutes, I would probably be in trouble with that. Some believe that the basic idea of Mr Ossinovski's words was that he was not sympathetic with the ideas offered in the draft. But if Ruth Annus is talking about a legitimate purpose, then, of course, there may be some assumption here that it must be a 'parket-friendly' goal. It may be a little weird to say so, but in principle it is an objective which must probably also have a reasonable reason and at the same time must fit within the framework of the fundamental principles of the state and the objectives of state life expressed in the Constitution. If it stays out of there, it's probably not a legitimate goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U170	Thank you, George Adams! I'm sorry! Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U171	Thank you. A little history lesson to finish this round of questions. George, you've been at the birth of the Constitution. Perhaps you might recall why the Constitution gave birth citizenship special status, stronger status than other forms of citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U172	It's really hard for me to say that. Firstly, we do not have any research into the work of the Constitutional Assembly, and secondly, I personally did not participate in the work of the panel in which the wording of this chapter was discussed. So I can't tell. I gave this interpretation here at the very beginning. You see, in my opinion, the very many places in the Constitution are not why they exist at all and why their wording is more understandable in 2018 if we do not take into account the political and conceptual situation that existed in 1991 and 1992. In my opinion, the Constitution could not have dealt with citizenship on the basis of previous Estonian constitutions. Well, if that thing was written in, it's probably somebody's fascinating, very good wording. But basically, in my opinion, there is one assurance behind this, one part of the political agreement on the basis of which Estonia's independence was restored. It is that all our people, who have emigrated for war and Soviet power, will be given the opportunity to become citizens in Estonian society again. I understand that historically it has been such a thought. To date, the idea is so trivial and self-evident that no one disputes it anymore. This memory, which I thought was the main hinterland at the time, is beginning to disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-20_U173	Thank you, George Adams! We will continue with the first reading of Bill 634 next week. The session of the Riigikogu is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
