ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. The Tuesday 5th plenary session of the VIIIth plenary session has begun. On behalf of the Riigikogu management board, I am prepared to accept reports, enquiries and drafts. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are not dealing with a report, but five members of the Free Party are indeed submitting an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. We have talked a great deal about alcohol duty here, which is a painful issue, but the society as a whole and our economy may now be having even greater effects on fuel prices and excise duties. As a result, we are reporting an inquiry into the impact of fuel prices on both the consumer and the wider economy. We want to know from the Prime Minister what the Government of the Republic's agenda will be if the increase in fuel prices continues on the world market. How does the Government of the Republic intend to make our tax and economic environment more attractive and competitive for the transport sector? Apart from the question of fuel prices, we raise the issue of paying and monitoring road user charges. This has, of course, arisen precisely because supervision of transport providers from other countries has been poor. If, in the case of a possible reduction of excise duty, the government has calculated mostly on income foregone, then our question is the opposite, i.e. what a stimulating effect this could have on our economy as a whole, because this too must certainly be debated in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U3	Please, Vilja Thomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In Postimees on 10 October, Estonian National Broadcasting Research Journalist Taavi Eila writes three times: 'You will see and you will not thunder. You see and you don't thunder when the country breaks the law. You look and you don't thunder... ' We still want to rumble. What am I talking about? Still from this purchase of specialist medical care for the Health Insurance Fund for the next three years, where the state distributes 46 million euros of the funds of the Health Insurance Fund for the provision of special medical care to Estonian people on the basis of illegal contracts. 500 medical staff in their letter to Minister Sikkut have called the procurement a total fiasco. Let's call it what we want, the fact is that patients and doctors and healthcare providers in general are suffering. This procurement was started by Minister Ossinovski, and was completed by Minister Sikkut. One of these two is responsible for the trouble. Of course, such procurement does not in any way reduce the order of specialised medical care, the length of which is a concern for more than 99% of the Estonian population. In this context, we, 14 members of the Reform Party, have an inquiry to the Minister of Health and Labour, Sikkut. We expect answers from the Minister to six questions. For example, in Lasnamäe Medicum, the new procurement will no longer result in the reception of an ear, nose, throat doctor or gynaecologist. The Health Insurance Fund has reported that since 1 December the East Tallinn Central Hospital will take over their paid receptions at the premises of Medicumi Lasnamäe. Doesn't that seem strange to you? Do you not see the similarity between nationalisation in 1940, where power said who and how will act on the property of companies belonging to the citizens of the Republic of Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries and we process them as usual under the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, presence control, please! There are 83 people present, 18 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U6	Today's first item is the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Waste Act and the Social Welfare Act 685. Do the groups want to open negotiations because we have a third reading? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Let's prep it like it's time and duty. I vote on the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Waste Act and the Social Welfare Act 685. Please take a stand and vote. 79 delegates voted in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. The draft Act amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act, the Waste Act and the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U7	Second reading of draft Act 622 on the ratification of protocols to amend the Convention on International Civil Aviation initiated by the Government of the Republic. As this is an external agreement, I would remind you that the report is up to 20 minutes, the questions are for the rapporteur, each with up to two oral questions, and then there are negotiations for everyone. First, the report. This is done by Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U8	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! There were not many substantive proposals for accession to this Convention by the time foreseen, but linguistic, linguistic, linguistic. I'm sorry! They're actually in tomorrow's bill, I just messed up two things. Then maybe I'll read you the procedural decisions. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, and with it we had a consensus in the Commission: Arto Aas, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrand, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Peeter Ernits, Sven Sester, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Toomas Kivimägi. Secondly, to propose a final vote on the draft today, as well as a consensus: Arto Aas, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrand, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Peeter Ernits, Sven Sester, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Toomas Kivimägi. Now, if you refresh someone's memory, on December 7, 1944, a Convention on Civil Aviation was established, seeking security in civil aviation. And Estonia joined it in 1992, then on the initiative of the Estonian Supreme Council. As the Member States have increased in the meantime, the two paragraphs will be amended. I therefore hope that you will support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U9	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a second reading, all members of the Riigikogu can negotiate. That's not what you want. No amendments have been tabled, as you have heard. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 622. Let's prep it. I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocols to Amendment to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 622. Please take a stand and vote. with 74 votes in favour and one abstention. Draft Act 622 on the ratification of the Protocols to Amendment to the Convention on International Civil Aviation initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U10	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on public transport initiated by the Isamaa Group. Please waitress Andres Metsoja, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U11	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I'm sorry about my physical condition, some autumn virus has gotten under my skin, but let's hope we're doing a good job reading this bill first. Indeed, before you is the draft law amending the law on public transport submitted by the Isamaa Group. As you all well remember, we have, in principle, been through a major discussion in a long time, especially in the key to who should be involved in organising public transport. We know that public transport has been organised by cities and, in counties and in certain cases, by county governments. With the administrative reform, we decided very clearly on the model for the operation of public transport. This model is based either on municipalities or on public transport centres set up by municipalities. There was sometimes a long discussion about whether public transport in Estonia should be organised even through the Road Administration, whether in four regions or otherwise, but so these decisions have been made. The Fatherland is seriously looking at sustainability with its draft, in this key to making public transport financing decisions at the highest level, i.e. to bring this decision-making competence to the level of the Government of the Republic. The Minister, together with the Road Administration, can certainly prepare a package on how to organise public transport, but the contracting authority of the state would, according to this draft, be the Government of the Republic with its own decision, and possibly it will do so twice a year. Another very important issue in the context of this draft is the subsidiarity principle of the municipalities that have been spoken and covered by the Charter in Europe. If we have adopted the legal basis for local authorities to organise public transport on the spot, precisely so that they can do so as close as possible to the customer of this service, i.e. seeing this image created best in cooperation, they should actually be able to do so. Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where public transport has a very strong influence precisely towards the central government, the Road Administration. Very successfully, this additional injection of money made on 1 July showed that public transport centres were quite confused because, in the same way, regulation is vague, but vice versa, as well as verbal information changes. At this point, we want to give, in addition to deciding how to design the network, whether it is paid or free of charge, the size of this network, so that it is also sustainable in a three-four-five-year perspective, a clear opportunity for municipalities to introduce incentives for certain groups. In this case, the law states very clearly how benefits are granted, but our draft § 301 (3) makes it very clear that additional benefits to a group of passengers determined on the basis of the general characteristics of bus and coach transport can also be made by public transport centres. Why is this important? I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that the organisers are actually cities and counties. In a large number of cases, public transport centres have also been formed across the country, i.e. one public transport centre manages several counties, but there are also models where there is a county centre, a city that organises public transport as a service for the tax money of its inhabitants, has delegated the right of liability with money to a public transport centre, where it also sits at the table in one voice and then tries to find reasonable points of cooperation, so that there is no duplication, parallel routes, and that we both maximise the revenue side of the tax money and minimise the cost side. That's the content of the bill. We ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U12	There are questions for the waitress. Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U13	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We have had a number of hearings on the public transport arrangements that the current Minister for Economic Affairs is trying to introduce on the windshield of a bus with a blue-white sign. In general, these hearings have left a rather consensual view that the matter is confusing and not very successful. In particular, quantity is preferable to quality. By quality, I mean what is being done in Saaremaa, for example, and since the time of the previous minister, namely such a more innovative demand transport. Here's my question, actually. You are coalition partners, the drafters are coalition partners, you will probably also understand that, if the proposed draft goes through, it would break the public transport plans of Samson and the Central Party. Do you still support this bill and think you're ready to go against a coalition partner?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U14	Thank you, good Kristen! I do not know whether it is wise to turn public transport arrangements into political knots in this Chamber. We have decided on a model for organising public transport. In my opinion, it is time to give this decision-making power together to the municipalities. Let us be honest, probably in a few years' perspective, perhaps even during the March elections, many parties raise the question of why this provision should not be provided at all by the municipality's revenue base, why it should be like a state order from the municipality. If we look at the Estonian Constitution and the decision-making levels, I do not see that we should finally reduce this issue to a major political struggle here or there on the side of the barriers. The Fatherland is certainly still in this position, even though we have presented this draft under the name of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union even before we went on summer leave.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U15	Although the wish to ask Kristen Michal's second question would refer to the possibility of a debate, it is still necessary to follow this law on home and working procedures, which is currently in force, although I, too, have proposed to make some changes to it from this chair. That is why Kristen Michal can certainly ask a second question, but Urmas Kruuse is now asking the first question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The central party government has declared very clearly the desire to act as supporters of local governments, as well as to show that it is in favour of increasing the independence of local governments. This bill has come to this hall only from you, the coalition partners' signatures are not here. This suggests that what is being shown to the public is not quite true, because it is very clear that local transport and local conditions could and should be best known by local authorities or their own designated transport centres. Please tell me why this bill does not have the signatures of your coalition partners. On the other hand, I very much hope that you will go to the end with a similar mindset.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U17	Thank you. There are no signatures from coalition partners because we did not offer them this opportunity. The discussion in the context of organising public transport was very clear and sharp precisely at the beginning of the summer. And actually, the information changed every day. This situation must have changed in a few days for all coalition partners. And the spice was added to the public transport centre as one who tried to figure out which direction to run, at which speed to run and whether to do it for free or for reward, even at this stage of start-up. Such a brief answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U18	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Indeed, it seems that you are doing a little solo with this question now. The law has just been passed. Didn't you get coalition partners to agree that your ideas would have been more reflected in this law? Or did you not come up with your ideas during the procedure of this law, and you could not put them in, and that is why you are now coming up with changes quite quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U20	Thank you. I don't think the Chancellor of Justice is wrong if he says that if you see a problem, a legal vacuum, it makes sense to come to this hall and deal with it. There's probably no point in dealing with it somewhere in the costaars and then being pouting on each other, that some things don't go in the direction they're supposed to go. Once again, the model for organising public transport is new. Moreover, the transition period is very long. The transitional period for the restructuring of public transport is eight years, i.e. two electoral periods at local level, under the Local Government Organisation Act. This means that, as we have agreed in this Chamber, the same lines that were previously internal to one municipality have become wider, other municipalities have come and have been granted a transitional period. But we can't stay here in this room and just wait for the government's initiative on how to proceed. Besides, a very large part of us are either in a leading position in councils or even in a committee that should deal with it. I think we have given ourselves a very clear mandate to deal with this issue in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U21	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, While you initially admonished us not to place it on the surface of political confrontation, I am asking. Neither the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications nor the Minister of Public Administration supported this draft. What were the main arguments why they did not support?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U23	Thank you. Yes, indeed, they gave feedback in this key that they did not support this bill. Firstly, they stress the fact that perhaps this is not a matter that the Government of the Republic should deal with at a decisive level, because it has so far been very successful in working with the Road Administration and the Minister. It is such a fundamental question. We believe that this is necessary because, in fact, by adding money and losing the ticket revenue, this flexibility is still being taken away and the responsibility is being given precisely to the level of the public transport centre, where the minister can actually say very freely one day: excuse me very much, but the Government of the Republic thought that there was not so much money for public transport. Then you will be faced with a choice of what to do, either to restore paid transport or to cut the line network. Secondly, it was said that there are such linguistic problems and there is no legal clarity about, for example, Saaremaa. We're talking about public transport centres, but why don't we mention the municipality? Indeed, such a distinction has arisen. At the time, when we presented this bill, it was more or less already known, but it was not set in stone, how Saaremaa would organise public transport. It is now known that the municipality has made this commitment, even though Ruhnu and Muhu are also involved in the regional transport model. This is a forum for discussion. If changes, clarifications or linguistic corrections are necessary, I think that is what the Riigikogu is for.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U24	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I hope this bill works out. The competence of regional public transport centres is certainly important. But I am asking a question specifically about Pärnumaa, which I am sure you are very well aware of. After all, the city of Pärnu acquired a very strange geographical shape, and the city's contact zone is located in other municipalities. A new modern bus terminal has been built, but these costs need to be covered. Give us a more concrete overview of the needs of Pärnumaa and how this draft would contribute to greater flexibility and reasonableness.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U26	Thank you. Indeed, the city of Pärnu is the largest municipality in Estonia, the size of the territory is 858 square kilometres. The city of Pärnu is then the formation where the volunteers, Audru and Paikus' former municipalities, also came to Tõstamaa, who were forced to join. It has to be said that in Pärnumaa, things are not yet settled. Now a new process has already been initiated, almost everyone from the villages of the former Sauga municipality wants to join the city. But it has indeed been decided that the public transport centre will be set up by all the municipalities of the county together. Other municipalities of Pärnu County have also put money there through the municipal union. Most of this money was indeed covered in the city of Pärnu. The funding of European support measures has also been used there. Of course, our public transport centre is also largely supported by commercial lines, because Pärnu's location is simply one where many commercial routes enter. They then pay a fee and part of this service fee is basically maintained by the public transport centre. What has been our greatest concern? The biggest concern has indeed been that the city of Pärnu, which organises public transport for its own means of taxation, has run into the ideology of free public transport throughout the county. And if this had been the case, perhaps all the municipalities in the county would have taken a total decision on this matter, at the public transport centre, the city of Pärnu would have been in a very difficult situation in this sense, so that the ticket revenue would obviously have decreased. In this case, we would have been forced to either pay for the maintenance of the line network or cut the line network, i.e. to make a raffle in the sense that the urban lines would then have been written into the calculation of the county lines. This, however, is neither in my opinion nor in the opinion of the Public Transport Centre a sensible behaviour. It makes sense to look at the whole picture. And in Pärnumaa, it was indeed achieved that the monthly card of both the city and the county residents costs 10 euros. It is essentially free public transport, but it still leaves flexibility to collect revenue and redirect it back, because otherwise there would be no revenue, because there is no such buffer in the state budget that additional money is collected for the service. What's a little confusing is that if we collect money, maybe we charge for the service, then how and for what we can still use it for. After all, the Road Administration has also put forward a plan to clean up all the bus transport infrastructure. It is no secret that the municipalities and the Road Administration have long argued about who has bus stops, or whose duty it is to keep them in order. We have agreed, in principle, that if it is possible to re-use this money in our county, we would use it to upgrade the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U27	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U28	Thank you. Good waitress! I will, of course, support this draft to give more rights to places to organise public transport. At the end of last semester, being in the coalition in Viljandi with the Fatherland and the Centre Party, I saw quite close to this confusion, a changing situation every day. I also saw at close range the fight of your party chairman for the organisation of more normal public transport. But unfortunately, then the normal rules and wishes were largely below the political will of the Centre Party. My question, however, is this: if we adopt this law, is it possible, on the basis of this, that one line in Viljandi, now subsidised by 100% by the city of Viljandi, could the state be subsidised?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U29	Thank you. I'm having a hard time commenting because I don't know the answer. This is probably an intra-urban, i.e. one municipal, route. I do not think that this particular draft is an opportunity for the internal line in Viljandi to become a nationwide one. There's some other nuances in the game. For example, whether it crosses the city line or not. If he exceeds it, he already has other characteristics and this is the decision-making place of the public transport centre. Why, historically, have you developed so much that only one line has remained like a city line; the rest are all financed through the public transport centre from state budget subsidies, I cannot comment on that. And this bill will certainly not solve this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U30	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U31	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The problem with public transport is that graphs are bad, i.e. the time of departure, the point and frequency of departure are not flexible enough, for many people it simply does not fit. The bus reform of the Centre Party has not provided answers to these questions and has not solved these problems. How do you, as the political leader of the political party that supported the right in economic matters, evaluate free public transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U32	Thank you. The service certainly has a price and the user pays. The principle of'service user pays' is, I think, pervasive. Of course, we can infinitely open up discussions about the fact that, if it is predominantly subsidised by taxpayers' money, is it even reasonable to ask for a separate fee, your contribution. But so we could open a lot of chapters on water and sewerage projects, water and sewerage prices. We could talk at all about the European Union's action in the third sector, so why put 10% of it at all, if 90% is already coming. There must always be ownership and motivation. This actually makes a lot of things clearer for both the user and the service provider. We also believe that this whole system, which concerns counting, that where and at what moment is driving, when the rush hour is, when buses are underfilled, costs very much when administered through it. However, it cannot be said that all this cost now will be borne by an indeterminate taxpayer, especially in the situation where you mentioned the network. This public transport has often been described as such a regional measure, because it gives people living in remote areas a great deal more and creates additional opportunities. But let's be honest, my grandfather, who's over 90 years old, asked me all the time, "Hey, Andres, I got a bus to take home a day, but no one's gonna bring back home a public transport." Unfortunately, at the time, this issue could not be resolved because there were no additional means for public transport. The current coalition has found that more money must be given to public transport, but I do not think it is right to do so by making rural people or those who have a bus stop three kilometres away and who are actually forced to own a car in the vicinity of the city pay off. Moreover, maybe he offers himself a job, was a right-wing entrepreneur, and maybe he bought this car for his own company's money. Finally, if he takes children to a kindergarten or a woman's job in the morning, he will also have to pay a special benefit in addition to 'public transport'. It's definitely not healthy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U33	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Maybe a word of numbers. If we look at the example of Tallinn, where this free transport or paid-up transport, which is perhaps more correct, the more accurate expression has been in place for years, then studies show that despite the increase in population and subsidies, the number of passengers has risen by 1.2%, and even at the expense of pedestrians. Compared to the years, 2012 was, by memory, about 42% of people who went to work on public transport, and 2017 was already 35%, so less and less. I would like to compliment you that you are definitely on your way to the right direction with this bill. My question is this: if, for example, the Reform Party supports it, the Free Party and the Isamaa support it, even the EKRE supports it, but there is a gap between the Socats, can we be sure that, because of the pressure within the coalition, you will not put it under Sven anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U34	Kristen Michal, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U35	Thank you. We will soon see who supports this bill and how much it supports. Unfortunately, going back to local government level again, I have had to hear a number of initiatives from the Reform Party in the Pärnu City Council hall, too, that the transition to free public transport must be more active. At the same time, we have also heard how it has been said in Tallinn that the abolition of free public transport is not the best plan. Well, we all have to be consistent in our decisions and in our actions, both we and everyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U36	Raivo Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U37	Thank you. Good waitress! I'd like to expand the subject a little bit. The municipality reform was carried out with the aim of increasing the capacity of the municipalities. Now it's done in some places it's risen more, in some places less, but a little bit everywhere. Do you think it's time to take the next step and expand the subject? Bus and coach transport is one type of public transport, but there are also very clearly specific areas, such as those serving islands, such as ships and aircraft. Could this area not move to the hands of the municipalities, whose interests are primarily the smooth and smooth organisation of this mode of transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U38	Thank you. Yes, one half of this question actually concerns this principle that if we take this whole road extension issue, or our waterways, ferry connections, then we have a two-fold approach. One is that the state owns the barges and buys the operation. The second option is that the entire order has been handed over to the public undertaking which organises it. This is again a question of choice. But coming back to this self-governing arrangement, it's actually being done step by step. Small islands associations are transferred to public transport centres. I know this has been done with the Kihnu connection, the Manija connection has been given to organize the city of Pärnu. Small island connections are being handed over. And there will certainly be more of these modes of transport. In Pärnumaa, for example, there is also a floater and air connections in addition to ferry connections and recreational craft. I think it makes sense to arrange these things from one place to another, because inevitably the timetables have to come together. I remember very clearly those times when Elron came up with his plan and said that we were making train traffic 15 minutes faster on Lelle-Pärnu. It's caused a lot of confusion. Now we need to consider which is more important there, whether this 15 minutes is a big win in time, or why the entire schedule, or bus times, needs to be changed to suit people's needs and other modes of transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U39	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U40	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It seems to me that the purpose of this draft is to bring back efficiency to the organisation of public transport. Reasonable, I'm sure I do. Can you, however, describe what was the purpose of the coalition's original so-called paid public transport arrangement?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U41	The idea of a paid public transport arrangement? After all, the idea of a paid public transport arrangement has originally been that, in addition to the subsidy, the user puts money in it. It's been the point of this. Let me get this straight. [[Someone in the hall is commenting.]] Free? What has been the point of free public transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U42	There was a small dose of sarcasm.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U43	Public transport paid by the state? Got it. I got the sarcasm. It has been the mindset and promise of one party. From your group, Jürgen Ligi, I think it has been very well said that today's policy is often not a 'yes' policy, but a 'no' policy. Inevitably, in this situation, our local authorities tended to say 'yes' more than 'no', probably without realising to the end what it would actually bring to them at the level of responsibility. A very clear policy is being made, allowed and done until the end of time. But those organisations that embrace this policy and set out to organise it every day must still understand that at one point it is no longer a feast, maybe there will be a worse day, and then decisions will have to be made. I think that this area should be kept as wide as possible so that the person who is used to driving and has to drive and has chosen not to buy a car but to use a bus connection can get as little hit as possible. This is the logic of the operation of public transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U44	Yoko Alender, is this a procedural question? Give Yoko the microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U45	Thank you. Procedural clarification. There was no sarcasm on my question. In my opinion, free lunches do not exist, so there is no free public transport. It's paid for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U46	The manager's reply was, first, improvisational and, second, probably due to the mistaken view that it was sarcasm. Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U47	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I had an extraordinary opportunity to be an alternate in the Committee on Economic Affairs to discuss this draft and, therefore, to clarify the question of legal clarity. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs objects to this bill because it is alleged that there is no legal clarity, then the Ministry of Justice has thought otherwise. Firstly, I would like you to comment on how you feel about legal clarity in this draft. And second, since you talked for a very long time here in the example of Pärnu, where there are bordering areas with other rural municipalities, what would it look like to have a monthly fee, say 10 euros, then the bigger problem is actually similar to the rural municipalities of Tallinn and Harjumaa adjacent to it. Most people in these municipalities travel very much to Tallinn. How would you see that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U48	Thank you. Well, I wouldn't comment on that legal clarity for the sake of legal clarity. Let's leave it to professionals. Lawyers have to do their job there and certainly create this legal clarity. We are talking first and foremost about the principle. I believe that it is possible for a lawyer to understand this principle. As for public transport in Harju County and Tallinn City and other Harjumaa, I understand that a lot of people in Harju County travel by commercial routes at all. This has historically developed so that larger centres offer sufficient economic capacity to the private market and where it exists, the private sector will certainly go there. And I think it's absolutely right. Would it be possible to launch a model similar to that of Pärnu County in Tallinn and Harjumaa? I believe it is. Once again, it must be understood that young people up to 19 and pensioners up to 63 years of age pay for student and pensioner travel benefits, based on what these personalised monthly cards show. Originally, this agreement has been made more widely, but the statistical aim is to become more and more precise, as the driving reading system offers the municipalities. Again, there are no free lunches. If any of the municipalities want the benefit that their person can travel in Tallinn with the same monthly card, I think this is a matter of agreement. And I don't think Tallinn has a problem with that. It is a question of whether the municipality considers such a financial outlay to be politically reasonable and actually necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U49	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U50	Thank you. Good waitress! It is no secret that the biggest and most powerful party in the current government, the Central Party, has put great pressure on you to abandon this bill. This is an initiative that would break the so-called bus reform of the Centre Party. How likely is it that you will be able to break the Centre Party during this draft procedure and this plan will work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U51	Thank you. Once again, I think that this is a much broader issue, not just a political dead end. There are certainly many local government leaders with very different political affiliations in public transport centres, and they depend on how these decisions are ultimately made. I also know that there are also local government leaders in our ranks who sit in a public transport centre and say that the choice of free public transport model was reasonable. It is a bit of a world-view question, it is a bit of a matter of agreements, it is not the end of only politics, although its dosage of policy is in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U52	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U53	Thank you. Good waitress! It was claimed in this Chamber that people do not want to travel so much by public transport and that the figures have been decreasing all along. Now, to remember the statistics, since July, when free transport was introduced in most counties, the number of passengers has increased enormously. For example, it grew by 92% in Ida-Viru County, 75% in Jõgeva County, 32% in Põlva County, 34% in Tartu County, etc. Now, if we're going to turn this around somehow, and if perhaps many public transport centres aren't interested, as we know, what do you think the ordinary person who now thinks it's a really good thing? The money has also been put in place next year to tighten the lines. After all, a person receives one month's salary for his annual service.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U54	Thank you, good Marika! First the statistics, then the good thing. It is actually the case with statistics that there were no general modern ticket census systems in many counties before. It all depends on what we compare to. If, for example, we compare 1 July of last year to 1 July of this year, it would, in my opinion, be extremely difficult to produce statistics at all. The numbers can be written down, but how many there are truths, it's hard to answer. We can still compare data from the same system. Once the ticket countdown system has started, you can compare the current month to the previous month. However, this is a very short time to shape some fundamental opinions at all, especially when it comes to the summer month. One way to go maybe the number of passengers should go down, because it's like the students aren't driving anymore. Often, however, counties have organised public transport in such a way that there are either magnetic cards or bus tickets still on paper, which the municipality has bought and granted for the use of the students, or vice versa, each student or parent buys a bus ticket and then brings a bill to the local government where it is compensated. I'm sure it's distorting the situation. We know that the school will start on 1 September, and that will be the time for these transactions. On the other hand, coming back to the abolition of rural governments, the rural governments also had units involved in controlling public transport tickets, i.e. monitoring. In Pärnumaa we knew very well that supervision was transferred to a large centre in the Road Administration, and among the people there was a relatively well-known message that no ticket controller has been seen on Sindi routes for a long time. Again, one such nuance, which will certainly distort the overall picture during the transitional period. That's why I can't take these statistics very seriously. I have also asked the public transport centres over, and they also confirm that there are statistics, but how much to take into account is a question of their own. From a good thing, I guess it's always human. Some people really like free public transport, another one comes and says, "Hey, maybe you'd better put this money in informal care, don't even make a social system in Estonia." People who have a child or family member who cares at home can barely manage, but we sow money like a plane. It's always a matter of attitude and probably a little personal. We should be dealing with the big picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U55	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U56	Thank you! Dear waitress, This bill stands out as an interesting contradiction. It is certainly not an ideal system of free public transport, which is currently, but your draft does not actually offer solutions. This contradiction lies in the fact that, on the one hand, you are saying that we are going to give decision-making closer to the municipalities, let them decide for themselves, but on the other hand, you are actually taking the decision-making process of distributing money to public transport centres with this draft from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and taking it up to the level of the government, perhaps even upwards. It's a little comic in itself. I understand governments are coming, governments are going, and ministers are changing. This bill is still written about some kind of political situation at the moment. Would it still not be more reasonable to take this political tension off and come back to this after the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U57	Thank you. This decision is in the hands of this Chamber, either to proceed or to close the proceedings now and to do so sometime later. Once again, when money has been given to organise public transport, i.e. public transport centres have been able to open new routes, offer transport free of charge or, as they have said, better on the ground, I think it is absolutely essential to ensure stability, so that this issue is still discussed by the government. If we want to deal with public transport in such a way that people can really use it and slow down the carisation, look at the overall road situation and the whole picture, then I think the Minister's competence will not disappear from there. The minister is the one who has to manage this competence as a whole. But I do think that all members of the cabinet should be aware of this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U58	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U59	Good President! Good waitress! My view is that free and good public transport is an important public service. Your statistical comment actually gave me hair. If that is true, then it means that we have been doing free public transport for years for which we have been planting subsidies from the plane, because public transport has been receiving subsidies for years, but we obviously have not taken the same ticket money from the people. But my question is two things. Firstly, there is certainly a need to develop the line network substantially, the line network is also being developed during this half-year, and a substantial EUR 3.3 million goes to all counties to develop the line network. The same amount has been given over the last ten years for the development of the network, so the jump is very high. Do you accept that? Secondly, whether free or paid, every public service pays, each public service has a price and each public service is attended by both the state and municipalities. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U60	Yeah, thanks! I have already said that the fact that public transport has come to the money is a very good step. I think that this so-called stagnation and pressure to contract public transport have been relatively consistent lately. I know that because I've been in the middle of this. But as for the fact that I am misinterpreting statistics and ticketing data, I am trying to talk about the situation that I have heard about the public transport centres and also know about my experience as a former rural parent. Just this uniform system of driving counting was a point of the coalition agreement, we have decided that there should be a uniform ticket system throughout the country, in order to be able to count data. In fact, it has been introduced in essence on 1 July. We're just going over to a common standard. You had one more question. A public service financed by public money, i.e. the state budget and other public money, i.e. the local budget. I sum it up so it's public money, whether it's in the state budget or in the local government budget, it's all one tax money that's then distributed on the basis of agreements. However, this does not mean that the service should not have its own ownership. Once again, at some point, we might ask why we're even charging for water and sanitation. Why? So let them just use the water and the sewer just like they do. We already know that the European Union itself has said: the depreciation component must not be reflected in the price of water for European Union investments. And we are actually going to have to ask how, in 20 years' time, we are going to upgrade the water and sewerage networks again, perhaps earlier in some cases. This is a very big and serious problem. I don't think it's fair to put a one-family home with a maybe a local system and one with a central, both free end. I can't imagine how it could be done. This responsibility is and will remain, and it is also economic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U61	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! In spring, when I asked the Minister what the average price of a ticket bought in public transport was in different counties, I didn't get that answer. This also confirms that the statistics were incomplete. And what amazes me after this free public transport was introduced was that both experts and the owners of bus and coach companies said that it was actually nice because now bus and coach drivers do not put ticket money in their pockets and they have less problems. Going to do free transport without very adequate statistics is, in fact, madness. But as a South Estonian, what worries me is that, since certain transport is free, the private sector is being pushed out and, in fact, rail traffic is being affected. This means that if we can now travel from South Estonia, including Valga, by train to Tallinn and Tartu several times a day, this will certainly not be the case if this trend continues. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U63	Thank you. Again, there are several sides to it. Speaking of train connections, one public service must be just so good that it is wanted to be used. That's the assumption. Otherwise, there's no point in spending all our money on it. In Pärnumaa, the railway section of Lelle. We all know that it has not been renovated and has not been in the way of time. In fact, public transport and commercial lines have taken over. People can travel quickly and conveniently from Pärnu to Tallinn by charter bus. They might have a chance to take the train fast, but if this service doesn't meet expectations, that's just the way it is. I don't think you can put into one thing that if we do free public transport, the competitiveness of the train will disappear at all. I do not believe that, although there is some economic logic. Certainly also your principle that, if there is a full advantage, some people will move on to a more favourable means of transport, is correct and its impact cannot be underestimated.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U64	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U65	Thank you. Mr Metsoya, your comments sometimes make you wonder how serious you are about this bill. Do you want to go through with this and get allies? Because you say here from time to time that there are supporters here in the Reform Party and you are also in favour and against. I confirm: The Reform Party believes that the recipient of the service must participate in the payment. So tell me if you feel the same way. Do you really want support for this bill and expect it to reach the third reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U66	Yeah, I think it's exactly the same that the user has to pay. I think this bill should move forward and the municipalities should have a greater right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U67	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U68	Thank you. I have this question: why is a member of the coalition at the top of the Riigikogu wrestling and dimming? And I'll explain. Why bring statistics that don't exist anywhere? It is clear that after free transport, buses are full and people are driving. As far as the family budget is concerned, in order to be able to grant grants, I have repeatedly travelled between Põlva and Tartu in my constituency, one end costing 3 euros, the other end paying 3 euros, that makes a saving of 6 euros a day. If a woman or a man in a pensioner's family can go through shops and department stores in Tartu and save another 6 euros a day, then I think it is a very top priority. I understand the game is just against one good thing to blackmail it in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U69	Thank you. You have the right to your opinion, to my opinion. And I've already explained my point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U70	Tanel Winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm sure you're aware that my and the Social Democrats in Saaremaa are already testing smart public transport. Can you tell us how this bill, which we are discussing here today, will help resolve the situation that so many people who live in the country cannot use public transport at all, because no free or paid bus simply comes to him, or if it does, goes to the wrong place or doesn't come back in time? Shouldn't we put our backs together here and come up with a proper system to help our people move?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U72	Thank you. It's not like demand transport is a new thing. There's been demand transport in several counties, and it's basically a principle that a resident who lives on the last end of the line makes a phone call and tells me if he wants to get on the bus today or not. Is this the best solution, but in any case, it is the solution for man. I think, however, that with this general modeling of how to provide public transport at all to people who do not have a bus stop in the vicinity or a local network at all, we need to think about how they can get this service. I guess there are all kinds of opportunities in this world's practice, and we've talked about it. The Norwegian state, which is actually extremely rich in its nature, i.e. there are many natural obstacles between them, has decided that certain areas are free of public transport. In some regions, public transport simply does not work and people need to understand the conditions under which they live. To compensate for this, a model has been developed where people can either drive on demand, by taxi, or even using Uber, by co-operation with a neighbour, for example, if they need to go to a county centre on a given day. They can choose whether they will travel for the state money, or the dose section, loaded on the card, to the nearest bus stop, sit on a public car, or drive from door to door and use comfort services. These solutions are diverse. But once again, we understand that if we keep the public transport network as it is and expand it further, putting one of the forest farms where the bus got away, but didn't get back home to a new route, then at some point we are in a situation where we can do all this for the same money. In fact, we should get an agreement with the municipality and its residents so that they remain, figuratively speaking, in a public transport-free area where we can offer them a service either as a comfort service or as a demand line. I understand the coalition is working hard on this. They are trying to find solutions, and the pilot project Saaremaa is already in operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U73	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have moved in your answers to a more philosophical approach and politically. Now, would you be very clear on these three reasons? You yourself mentioned the need to look at the big picture at national level. What will become better with the current bus and coach arrangements than to support this amendment, so that the decision on money moves from the current level, where it is Minister, Road Administration, Public Transport Centre to the Government level? Is it centralisation, or is it rather the distribution of money for local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U75	Thank you. I think that the government needs to see the whole picture on this issue. If we want to talk about free public transport at all as a slogan, we actually need to talk about cities. This is inevitably the position where the city of Pärnu is not getting a cent from the state today to organise public transport. Everything is made out of the tax money of their residents. We are actually living in a time, as I have already mentioned, where there is, in essence, an eight-year transition period. The law on public transport has to be broken down to the details anyway, it is as if there is no escape. So what's the transport order gonna be? Will the current network remain internal to one municipality in the future, i.e. is it even intended to transfer it to the municipality, saying that you are now organising it as your own internal network? What model does the country have for continuing transport? If there is talk of a train connection here, there are already many issues that need to be looked at in this key. In fact, it has been decided that once Rail Baltic is completed, it will also be used for regional, local transport. Maybe we need to build local stops, which requires resources. The Lelle-Pärnu section will be closed. For example, what about the railway serving the Rapla line in Tallinn? Does it have to stay in parallel with what it is, or can it finally be integrated into Rail Baltic infrastructure? Not to mention ferry connections and everything else, transport is complete. Is it a reasonable idea that the small island we operate through procurement, that we find operators and barges are state-owned, or else we give the right to organise the state company? It's very principled and principled. What gets better? Looking at the local government's position, I feel better when I see the Government of the Republic dealing with it, discussing and looking at Estonia as a whole in a regional way. That's one. I think it will also be better in this sense that the government says clearly and the Riigikogu declares by law that organising public transport is the task of local governments. The state will give you the money, but he won't intervene. What kind of incentives to create, whether something is paid or free of charge, this responsibility must remain with the public transport centre on the ground. Of course, every new line that is opened is a cost and it is very difficult to reverse it. All public transport centres must understand that when new routes are opened, this economic point must be found, whether this is, for example, the demand line mentioned by Tanel Talve or the plan to expand the entire network. In addition, of course, the whole subject matter of the commercial line, which also requires a very clear place of cooperation between municipalities and private service providers. If you take away these route buses, for example here in Tallinn, which serve Harju County, the larger settlements, it is clear that this cost must be met automatically, and I am not sure that it is more reasonable to do so with subsidised money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U76	Since the procedural question does not go into the calculation of the main issues, then, Yoko Alender, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U77	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Glad to hear you're feeling better. I am concerned because I feel that the current Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications does not see the whole picture you are talking about. Some examples. During the previous government, the development of this same demand transport was started. It has not been shown that it has progressed so that we can hear progress. Rail traffic, with 80% of the Estonian population living in the vicinity, is likely to be hit by changes made during this government. From your own experience, does it seem that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications of your coalition partner's Central Party sees this whole picture, or do you no longer rely on this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U78	I'm sure the minister will see the whole picture of who, if not the minister. Of course, he is the keeper of competence in this field, along with the Road Administration. I have no doubt about that. It's just different ways of reaching the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U79	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U80	Thank you. I was still haunted here by the statistics question. Are the buses full or empty? I would like to bring here such a parallel that one party has been building a city state parallel to Estonian society in Tallinn for quite several years. Public transport has been in Tallinn for quite a long time, and indeed, statistics show that people use public transport less than in comparable years. If this model of an exemplary city state is now transferred to Estonia, is there a risk that in a few years' time we will have to conclude that the number of public transport users in the rest of Estonia might fall, not increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U81	Thank you. Statistics are a wonderful subject that you can talk about for hours, of course. In this sense, one must agree with Heimar Leng that his eye is finally king. When you see that the buses are full, it's like it's good when the buses are empty, it's like it's bad. But once again: In Pärnumaa, according to a model of organisation where the county and city have merged the public transport and people are paying for this service, there are still passengers. These passengers have not disappeared, and the statistical numbers also show growth. Again, we cannot say that the predominant solution is one, the other or the third. You have to look at things, there are special features everywhere. Estonia and its counties are such a special country that you can't do a very good plan for everyone. That's right, I think, with Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U82	Please, Anneli Ott!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You've flown across Rail Baltic, train traffic, ferry ships and a big picture in your answers here. I think that the MP should not deal with improving his or her sense of well-being through drafts, but we all need to deal with the people of Estonia first and foremost here. This measure has certainly helped a very large number of people. Statistics for statistics, it can be twisted and distorted the way you think it is right in your answer. I say I see it with my own eyes, I live in the land. From my home, buses pass by three times a day, and I can see that these buses are full. I ask you what your answer is to those people who may not be able to travel to the city with their family after this bill has been adopted, but they need to start driving alone again and telling their children: but we see a big picture, that means to our wallet that you have to stay home.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U84	Thank you. After all, with children, their schooling has usually been compensated all the time. Why are we even raising this issue in this context now? I don't think that's quite right. As far as I am concerned, I repeat that I mentioned this not as a MP, but, above all, as a member of the local government, as chairman of the council. I think it's very important to us. It is very important to Pärnu that the whole view exists, we do not have to live in any pressure mechanism or wonder whether it will be the case or the next year. Everything changes, indeed, but confidence is one of the most important things that the central government and the Riigikogu can offer to go well below. What do you say to those people who would have to pay for the ticket again one day? Once again: we in Pärnu County have decided very clearly that there is no free transport. The price of the service is what counts. We have already ruled out for ourselves that at some point we should tell people that it is now that so far the sites are free, but no more from tomorrow. It is not wise to create such a situation in the form of public transport, especially now that our country's population is declining, especially in rural areas. Regional differences are great. Putting all this burden on the public transport centre is not right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U85	Eev Paasmäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U86	Dear President-in-Office and good speaker, thank you for the opportunity to ask a question. Unlike you or those in this Chamber who do not believe in statistics, I believe in statistics, my eyes and ears. What I'm trying to say is that there are a lot of people using this free ride. They have also given up driving from point A to point B to work on their vehicle and are using public transport for this purpose. In other words, the burden on roads has also decreased. Not only in Pärnumaa, but also in East Virus. I say that the people of Ida-Viru also travel from Narva to Saatse, for example, and are grateful when they receive certain benefits. My question to you: what does your conscience say if you stick your fingers in people's wallets and some lose 100 or 150 euros a month because of your bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U87	Thank you. This bill doesn't put anybody's finger in anybody's wallet. The organisation of public transport on the basis of this draft is the decision of the public transport centre. This is what we are always stressing, after all, that the public transport centre must be able to decide how they organise sustainable public transport in their area. I'm sure there's no one there sometimes who's pushing for these fingers to be either in this wallet or in that wallet. After all, it is a political decision on the ground on how they want to see the public transport network and how they want to see the pricing model. That's how we could philosophize all the subjects. At the moment that the free transport system has started somewhere in the county, someone else who can't use it may well ask why you're taking this money out of my wallet. Unfortunately, that doesn't take us any further.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U88	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U89	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here's the question. At the moment, there is such a smell that Pärnumaa wants to become a special economic zone. Then, analogously, Valga and Valka should also have a special economic zone, because whoever goes there for cheap vodka and cheap smoke would have to pay at least EUR 2 for the road tax on going there because they spend on the road. It should also be possible for the local authority to determine this. But what I wanted to ask you is, how many people or tables or units is this project you're offering profitable? How's the relationship, one for ten or something? Or is the game simply that the transport centre wants to have discretion and distinction, while at the same time it can basically do what it wants to do with the fares?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U90	Thank you. In my opinion, it is simply very logical that, if there is an obligation and an opportunity to organise, there is also responsibility. It's very difficult for me here to find some deeper answer for you. I think they go hand in hand. Here, these rights must be on the ground, there cannot be anywhere on the intermediate level, which only makes this system more confusing. As for Pärnu as a special zone, I don't know, you must have misunderstood me. I have never spoken of Pärnu as a special zone. Certainly, in the context of Pärnu public transport, an example is more complex than Järva County, where the county centre itself does not organise public transport for its own tax money, therefore such an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U91	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U92	Thank you. We're here for a coalition meeting. Help us figure out what's going on. One party expressed the view that the MP, when submitting a draft, must have a very bad feeling; this must not be good in any way. Do you think so? Or do you think that the source of good feeling is better organisation of society and a fairer distribution of costs? So what's your general position on the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U93	Thank you. I don't feel so good in this talking board, because I have a cold and my head is thick. What's the situation in the coalition, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it, isn't it? I feel that this coalition has a whole life to talk about and discuss. When it comes to the new model, it needs to be discussed even more, and that is what we are trying to do. And it's gonna make me feel better when we do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U94	Please, Anneli Ott!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, I recall that I did not mention the children at school and the school transport at all. I was still talking about public transport, and I was talking about the fact that there are now a lot of rural children who didn't get there with their family. That was my point. Secondly, it seems to me that in the case of this bill, you have still missed the big picture and remained centre- or Pärnu-centred. How much have you communicated with those regions where free public transport has taken place? How much have you been in contact with those who use it and those public transport centres who are now saying that bigger buses are needed, not that passengers are not divided or that the service is not necessary in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U96	Thank you. First, children in public transport. Indeed, let us be clear about this. We have student transport, which is organised by the local government itself from its own revenues, so that children can get to school, home and leisure. But we also have public transport, with all children travelling as an integral part of the network, before and after driving. I assure you that nothing has changed in this sense, this opportunity still exists. Indeed, it may contribute to the fact that, if there was no public transport option at all before, now that a new line has been launched, this family will be able to travel from point A to point B. As for the fact that it has been as if criticism of public transport has come out of my mouth that I am critical, I have never said that some public transport centres have behaved in any way wrong. They have made their decision as they see fit, and that is what we must accept. We may or may not approve of this, but it is a substantive decision made at local community level with representatives of local governments. I think it's very right. Once again, however, if we go ahead with this, state intervention in this context should be reduced and local rights increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U97	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U98	Thank you. Honourable performer! I would like to thank you for bringing this law into this Chamber, because it has now become clear, through the speeches of life-knowing delegates, that free, or ticketless, public transport is very popular among the people and buses are full. Here's my question. Doesn't it seem to you that the party that goes against free, or ticketless, public transport is going to lose the election?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U99	Heimar can ask and can start predicting the results of the election on the basis of our few-hour discussion. Once again, the Estonian state is probably more consistent than any party. At least I personally feel that way as a young politician. The fact that people travel more by public transport is your understanding. I live in rural areas a lot of the time, and I see buses driving. I have also asked my mother, who often takes a bus from a rural area in Pärnu, specifically whether there are more people on the bus. He said he wasn't. What are we gonna do with the truth? Whether this is the case, whether it is the case, whether it is the case or the third, we can have this debate as if it were endless, but we would still look at the bigger picture and how we could actually guarantee legal certainty to the local authorities, as well as to the government and, in fact, to the entire Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U100	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U101	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Without statistics or statistics, it is quite clear that there will be more passengers in public transport from 1 July. For a person who can see a little without even a pair of glasses, it is clear that there are more people in buses. And many regions have complained that buses are so full that there is no way to travel there. In fact, we have had contracts like this, and they continue, unfortunately, that, regardless of the number of passengers, carriers were receiving subsidies before and now receiving subsidies. But I'd like to keep asking about the public service. Yes, public service has a price. Let's just take the same Pärnu who gets Via Baltica, Rail Baltic and the airport, these are all public services, and in fact, the state's money goes to the municipality. In fact, they put money on everything, put the state, the local government and people themselves. It is not possible to cover Estonia in such a way that public transport goes to every country, village or, let's say, every forest farm. This is where you co-operate. And co-operation also presupposes that more money still needs to be put in place. Municipalities have added to it so far, even when it was partially subsidised.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U102	Thank you. When travelling via Baltica, excise duty is paid. If Rail Baltic is going to drive, then in fact, the state loan will probably be paid in the same way as the taxpayer, and the price of the ticket will be paid in the other way. And speaking of the airport, the airport is a very clear commodity. Yes, the State is involved in the reconstruction, renovation of this airport, but the management costs of the airport must also be very high on the ground, and in particular in the name of those charges which are received either from the private sector or in some other way. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U103	Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for your very meaningful answers. I tried to avoid, throughout this discussion, what took place last week in the debate on a very important national issue, in which the Reform Party acted in style 'it is I ask, I will answer', in order to really give everyone else a chance to ask. But I noticed that there was a debate here today on both form and content, the Reform Party may have discussed the form, and the Centre Party tried to get to the bottom of the matter, probably concerned that people might still have a few free things or maybe something would change. Perhaps you will finally repeat why it is actually good for local public transport centres to have decision-making powers. Why is it good for locals to know how and why to channel money into either compression, free public transport or something else? What's it good for? It seems to me that some of the MPs have still not understood that it is actually reasonable and correct to give competence on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U105	Thank you. Firstly, certainly because public transport centres have a very clear responsibility to all these passengers when they open the routes, change the ticket price, expand the promotional groups. Secondly, local authorities also plan their budget revenue and expenditure. In addition to the allowance, money is actually added every year from the local level. We cannot create such a situation that at some point this local budget should be more important than the national budget. There must be a balance, and that is why I believe it must also be discussed at a higher level. Thirdly, the Road Administration cannot be the one who brings the right message at the desk of public transport centres as an advisory vote. You can't do that. The city of Pärnu with its taxpayers' money or other municipalities who have agreed in the county how they think things should be. If we want a model of cooperation, it is not actually possible for someone to prep someone else with their own message. These are, in my opinion, the simplest and most correct message from here to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U106	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U107	Good manager! Good waitress! At the meeting of the Economic Commission, it was very interesting to see how the official's story depended on the party belonging to his minister. It was not a debate of substance, it was just a talk. Both happens to be coalition parties. Although, yes, the vote ended with the bill coming into the big hall. Now explain in the language of the country what it means to go on with this bill. If we continue this procedure, does this mean that free public transport will actually disappear from the counties where it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U108	Thank you. I don't see that effect on this bill. Once again, this bill does not withdraw money from public transport and does not add more money. This draft changes the levels of responsibility and creates a clearer model of how public transport is organised in Estonia. As far as ministries are concerned, it is still the case that they have different concepts of things. Hope that with one such draft, initiated by one group, all officials and all ministries will come along at the same time before the first reading, well that is probably, good Peter, much to want.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U109	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U110	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In this Chamber, and in the past also through the media, we have read that the increase in the number of passengers is completely one-to-one associated with the transition to free public transport. I look at the official statistics issued by the Road Administration and see that the use of public transport and the number of passengers has increased in all counties, regardless of whether it is paid or free of charge. For example, with paid transport in Harjumaa it has increased by 30%, while free transport in Võrumaa has increased by 13%. Tell me if there's a connection that they're saying isn't. Why, then, can this increase in passenger numbers be attributed to?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U111	Thank you. I think there really is no link between one and the other. Let's take another simple example. I understand you don't like this Pärnumaa theme, but it's hard for me to talk about other subjects, because I'm at home most on Pärnu. If we put one route to the northern Pärnumaa rural municipality where there are perhaps six forest farms at all and perhaps half of them would start to travel by bus, then we can count the number of passengers and compare line miles with the number of users of the service. In the other direction, if we make a new route to the city's immediate vicinity, which perhaps takes into account the change in mobility requirements, the fact that the Pärnu hospital is located where it is located and the vocational education centre where it is located, and that it may be necessary for Audrus to reach the hospital directly, rather than to come to the bus station, if we are to create a new network of routes that connects this new municipality as a whole, then it is clear that the number of passengers in the densely populated area must increase, because we are creating an additional line and there people are driving. But we cannot reduce this to a regional measure, so that people can now travel from some distance from the corner of the forest to the centre in a very comfortable way. This may not always be the case, but it does not mean that in some cases this is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U112	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U113	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you again, and I'm gonna ask you a straight answer. One is what's written in the bill, but a lot of things aren't written in it. My question to you is this: if we approve this draft 664, will free public transport in the counties of Tartu and Jõgeva be maintained? If it disappears for any reason, because of this bill, will you be responsible? Or who's responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U114	Thank you. The public transport centre, or municipalities, is responsible for how public transport is to be organised. It is certainly not Andres Metsoja or Peter Ernits in this Chamber in support of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U115	Thank you very much to the waitress, and we wish for an imminent recovery! Healing must be quick, because at the next point you'll be in front of us again. Jaanus Marrandi, member of the Economic Commission, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed draft 664 that was just presented to you here, on 9 October, including. As guests, Andres Metsoja, representative of the initiators, Ain Tatter, Head of the Road and Railway Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Olivia Talle, Legal Adviser to the Regional Administrative Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Andrus Jõgi, Adviser to the Financial Management Department of Local Government, and Kert Karus, Adviser to the Minister of Justice. The Government of the Republic did not state its position on the draft s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s a s Four ministers gave the understanding: the two were supportive and the two opposed, did not support this draft. The debate that took place in the Commission is the easiest way to pass on the views of these same ministries. The letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications states that the draft does not guarantee the distinction between the tasks of the State and those of the local authorities laid down in the Public Transport Act, the rational and targeted use of public funds and control. The public transport centre, which is a non-profit association established by the state and local government, but where the local government has the majority of its decision-making powers, is given a very broad discretion to spend public funds and to commit to the state budget on the basis of the narrow regional interests of the local authorities. Under these rules, the Public Road Administration is not in a position to immediately monitor the feasibility of the use of the aid and thus to ensure that the Public Transport Act entrusts the Public Road Administration with the task of coordinating the development of counties and national public transport. That was the position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I will also read a paragraph from the perspective of the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice supports the objective of the draft initiative to increase the competence of regional public transport centres in the organisation of bus and public transport. The Minister of Justice considers that the public transport centres should have the right to set the ticket price for the bus and coach services on the basis of a public service contract, as well as to ensure an additional concession for the carriage of passengers. According to Janek Mägg, one of the parties to the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Public Administration, the bill states that bus traffic with state support is only carried out through regional public transport centres. Neither the draft nor the explanatory memorandum make it clear, however, whether the draft is meant to mean that bus traffic is no longer organised outside the area where public transport centres operate. This is the question of Hiiumaa and Saaremaa, where there are no public transport centres and where there is one municipality. The Minister of Public Administration also complains that, according to point 2 of the draft, § 301 (3) and (4) of the Public Transport Act, it is intended to confer on the public transport centres, within their area of activity, additional advantages on the group of passengers determined on the basis of the general characteristics of bus and coach services on the basis of the public service contract, the price per passenger and the ticket price. The public transport centre, unlike the local authorities or the Public Road Administration, is not considered to be a public authority. Therefore, as a private legal person, the public transport centre is not in a position to provide administrative and legal legislation under Estonian law. Such competence cannot be conferred on public transport centres. The letter signed by the other party of the Ministry of Finance, Minister Tõniste, states that it is considered appropriate to decide for the regions themselves whether to tighten up the line network or to grant additional benefits to passengers. The choices made and the level of incentives granted should not affect the volume of public transport support received. Such arrangements shall allow maximum account to be taken of local circumstances. From these opinions of the four ministries and, of course, from the views of the initiators of the draft, the whole discussion in the Commission actually branched out. I bring out, for example, the position of Ain Tatter, who said that public transport centres are non-profit organisations whose main activity is the performance of the tasks of the state and not of the local government. He considered that the draft proposal for the repeal of a ministerial regulation governing how subsidies in the state budget were to develop, how they were to be accounted for and earmarked and that the recovery of funds in the event of an infringement would lead to uncertainty. If non-profit organisations themselves set fares and travel incentives, i.e. would provide regulatory administrative acts, there is a likelihood of conflict with the Constitution. So it would also be appropriate to ask for the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. In addition, Ain Tatter asked whether the initiators' aim was that all decision-making, including very detailed technical nuances, should go to the government's jurisdiction. Andres Metsoja, the representative of the initiators of the bill, said that in the past public transport was organised by county governments, and the Road Administration had the same connection as it is now. County governments are now out of control and the surveillance unit has come under the Road Administration. Now whether a non-profit organisation can be granted the right to share public money in an administrative contract. An example of this was Counsellor Kert Karus of the Minister of Justice. He claimed that in the framework of the Leader support programme of the Agricultural Registers and Information Agency, non-profit organisations also distributed public money. Olivia Tellute, an official of the Ministry of Finance, pointed out that the entire regulation was unclear. The question arises, inter alia, as to whether the draft is aimed solely at regional routes or also at local routes and, if there is no public transport centre in the county, how the route will be supported in the region. This is again the question of Hiiumaa and Saaremaa. Another representative of the Ministry of Finance, Andrus Jõgi, said that legal technical issues still need to be examined and that it should be considered whether public transport centres should be entrusted by the State or by local authorities. Andres Metsoja felt that a debate had already been held on the organisation of public transport, but it would be important to know how to ensure that public transport centres have sufficient powers to carry out nationally contracted tasks in a situation where procurement contracts are awarded for 10 years. The Leader theme also came up again: how, in some cases, it is as if a non-profit organisation can be given discretion to distribute public money and in some cases not. The Ministry of Finance's official pointed out that the distribution of PRIA money is based on regulations specifying the conditions under which the money is distributed, and local programme units make administrative decisions. In a further discussion, Toomas asked Kivimägi a question that arose in the previous discussion here. He said that in order to increase flexibility, public transport support should be provided by the Minister, but on the basis of the draft it can be said that the initiators do not trust the Minister. He asked the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications why supervision is organised by the Road Administration and counties are not given decision-making powers when the State has determined the amount of money allocated to the county public transport. Toomas also wanted to know from the initiators of Kivimägi what the principle would be to share regional support between public transport centres. Ain Tatter explained that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications no longer distributes grants between counties and that the implementation unit is the Public Road Administration, since the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not have a department dealing with public transport, and the Public Road Administration has it. The discussion then reached the point where Erki Savisaar found that public transport should not be a matter for some metropolitan areas, but logical across Estonia. The stops should also be determined on a case-by-case basis. In addition, he found that the merger of the municipalities resulted in some routes with a national subsidy. Erki Savisaar also pointed out that the municipalities still have the right to decide on the price of the bus ticket on their routes. Andres Metsoja pointed out that the government should be the most reliable partner of the local government. In addition, the Council has the right to decide who can make more favourable use of public transport within their area of administration. This was a brief overview of the discussion in the Committee on Economic Affairs on this subject, which largely followed the same pattern as the author's representative. The Commission also took decisions: it proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 16 October, today (consensually) and that the first reading be closed (by 5 and 2 Commission members adopted with 1 abstention). A consensual proposal was also made to set the deadline for amendments at 5 p.m. on 30 October. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U117	The round of questions begins with Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a question of principle. You pointed out here at the very beginning that officials from three ministries were invited as guests, who actually represented four ministers in total, and the position of the Government of the Republic is lacking. However, the ministries have presented conflicting views on the cross. Why did the Commission invite officials? Why were four ministers not invited? Clearly, this is a political disagreement, a political issue. In doing so, the Riigikogu commission actually politicizes officials where they should not be politicised. For example, if the minister were a person of another party, an official of the Ministry of Economic Affairs would give a completely different opinion. Why do you create such hypocrisy? The Commission could have invited ministers in such a case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U119	Thank you! Your comment is to some extent justified. Unfortunately, I must admit that the Commission is not inviting them. The guests will be invited by the chairman of the committee according to the item on the agenda, which is his 'prerogative'. We did not discuss this in the Commission either. Perhaps it would have been wiser to invite ministers. At the same time, it is clear that these letters earlier went to the government, the government, to discuss this issue. So there were already these views. Neither did the ministry officials actually express any views other than those that were in those letters and which I quoted here very briefly. So, in a sense, this is a regrettable case where, for example, the Ministry of Finance has two positions. It may be difficult to understand, but it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U120	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Erki Savisaar on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group. Eight minutes is requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This year has been revolutionary for regional public transport. From 1 January, public transport centres were established throughout Estonia, which organise public transport within the county. The exception is Hiiumaa and Saaremaa, where the local government organises public transport. While public transport was organised in the past mostly by a county government specialist, who often worked half-time, there are now several logistics in the centres, who have more time and resources to develop the local network. The centres will also receive real feedback on the performance of the lines through validation and will have the capacity to add new lines and improve the graphs. The year-on-year underfunding of public transport led to a reduction in the number of passengers year-on-year, which was in turn reacted to by thinning the routes. This year, for the first time, there are real resources available in the state budget to increase the volume of the line. This year, EUR 3.3 million has been earmarked for this, which is more than the last 14 years in total. Another important date for public transport was 1 July, when public transport centres were given the opportunity to offer free regional public transport. Out of Estonia's 15 counties, 11 can travel free of charge on county lines. People have received free travel well: more than a million trips were made in the third quarter than in the same period last year. For example, in August, growth over Estonia averaged 33%. The first months of free public transport have clearly proven that the price of driving is important to people. Thus, the mobility of many people has increased. For example, every day in Tartu, a person working 25 kilometres away wins nearly 800 euros a year. Mobility opportunities are improving and those who go further in the workplace no longer have to spend high transport costs, winning 13 months' wages, as well as the mobility of older people and children. Everything would be fine, but the tar drop in the honey pot is the draft we are discussing today, which wants to take free public transport away from people or, worse, even put the entire county public transport to a halt next year. In doing so, state budget resources for providing high-quality public transport are available in the state budget strategy for a total of four years. The draft abolishes the current procedures for transparent and verifiable administrative procedures for requesting, allocating and using public funds. The current mandate rule and the regulation aim to ensure transparency and control of the use of public funds. It is unclear why the control of the targeted use of public budget resources requires only public shipping, air and rail traffic and is no longer considered necessary in bus and coach traffic with the same significant financial impact. The use of the aid would be subject to administrative supervision by the Road Administration. At the same time, there would be no appropriate rules governing the use, reporting and reimbursement of the aid, which could be monitored by the Road Administration. Currently, public transport centres submit an application for public transport support to the Road Administration together with an explanation. The Road Administration will assess the validity of the application and its compliance with the current national budget strategy and make proposals based on the state budget. Therefore, the Public Road Administration's budget includes the resources for bus and coach transport, which it distributes on the basis of requests from public transport centres and the municipalities of Hiiumaa and Saaremaa. The draft will bring the public budget for bus transport under public service contracts, the distribution of subsidies between regional public transport centres to the level of the Government of the Republic by centralising an area which does not need to be centralised. However, the draft does not give rise to the conclusion that the Government of the Republic should assess the region-specific feasibility and economic opportunities. If the initiator of the draft assumes that moving the decision-making level to the level of the Government of the Republic will allow more public transport centres to satisfy their wishes, then I must remind you that the state budget will be adopted by the Riigikogu. So there are exactly as many resources to organise public transport at the county level as we decide in this Chamber, regardless of which level the distribution of money is confirmed. Furthermore, there is a risk that if the Government of the Republic is unable to agree on the distribution of money between public transport centres, the transport service will be completely interrupted because the carriers will not be willing to provide the service without the money. The second amendment to the draft is that public transport centres could use unsubstantiated state budget allocations for the management of both local government and regional routes, investment and research of public transport infrastructure in both counties and cities. According to the authors of the draft act, the interests of local government are of primary importance. Thus, one of the actual objectives of the draft is the use of resources for the performance of national tasks by local authorities. If this is indeed the wish of the Riigikogu, the state budget law must also define the performance of the functions of local governments as a purpose for the use of public transport subsidies, but this must be done by treating all municipalities equally, including Tallinn. In summary, this is a draft that is not supported either by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or by the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the Ministry of Justice acknowledges that this draft is not technically competent. Unfortunately, the Centre Party Group sees no alternative here but to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U122	Sven Sester, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't prepared a speech like the previous speaker who read some tracts for a long time. But I was just driven here by some sentences from the previous speaker and, to some extent, by the debate that was in this Chamber. Some things need to be worked out. A little debate. Doesn't the listener want to listen or can't the questioner ask? I don't know what the problem is. But frankly, I was a little surprised to hear such dramatic sentences. I even wrote them to myself: "I want to take away free public transport. ', 'Why would you put your hand in a free public transport cup? ',"Do public transport centres want rights? '. It reminds me a little of that old slogan 'The price of water under control! Heimar Lenk was also a questioner today, he remembers it. So these nice slogans. I don't know if some people don't understand what this is about or close their eyes. I will say once again to all those who do not want to proceed with this bill today: good friends, ladies and gentlemen, this bill will not take away the possibility of free public transport in one municipality or another. No, they won't! Once again, it will not be taken away, but public transport centres will be given the opportunity to decide for themselves, according to the Government's will, to channel funds into one, another or third municipality. They will be given the opportunity to decide whether they want to tighten the lines, whether they want to build more bus stops, or whether they want to make free public transport, for example. It is their right to take these decisions. The Minister has no right to say that free public transport in Estonia is for everyone. The local government knows better than I, you or the minister whether they want free public transport or, for example, the strengthening of line networks. I also mean that the agreements that are currently being concluded are, after all, predominantly ten-year contracts. I wonder at all what role the Road Administration will play later when such contracts have already been concluded, what it is monitoring or operating there. That's a separate question. Once again, let us not be afraid to give an opportunity when we have made a political decision. The political decision is this: to channel additional money to local authorities for the development of public transport. This is the place of political decision on how much money we want to give there. 13 million, clear, a political decision has been made. Let's not be afraid to give them a chance to tell them what they want to do with this money. If they want to make concessions, we'll give it a chance. If they want to do line compressions, let's give it a shot. If they want to do free public transport, let's give it a chance. Let's not be afraid of that! That was my message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U124	Ladies and gentlemen, without mentioning any name, I say that, for the second time in this Chamber, there have been complaints that there are too many policies. I think we understand that politicians have been chosen for this job. There are always those who say that the Fatherland is eternal, and there are those who say that the Centre Party is fundamental. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U125	Good vice chairman! Members of the Riigikogu in the hall! I lost that line, but I guess I wasn't the only one. I can tell you right now, I am not keeping up the tension that the Reform Party supports the draft, because it is a draft that is going in the right direction, towards decision-making on the ground, and not just because Sven Sester's appearance seemed to be a genuine concern for the future of the Estonian people and transport. That's what it looked like, too. It is certainly very important to bring the content of the draft to the surface. Consider, for example, the long-term transport experience in Tallinn. A previous survey by Swedes shows that the total number of passengers in Tallinn increased free of charge or paid, which is a more accurate term as a result of public transport, by 1.2% and increased by pedestrians. Compared to years, in 2012 there were 42% of people travelling to work by public transport, and in 2017 there were 35% of them, despite the increase in the number and subsidy of Tallinn's residents. In this hall there was also the question of whether this model had succeeded. I say that the people of Estonia expect quality and new solutions rather than quantity. The Centre Party represents this attitude in this Chamber that more quantity and circulating buses, not so much modern demand transport. I think it is appropriate to remind Tanel Talve that as a minister, I also had contact with the islanders, such as Kalle Laanet. I can confirm that. Even then, islanders had the idea of moving forward with demand transport, which is a much more innovative solution. And whoever drives it forward, that's a good idea, that's what you gotta do. If you ask what the future alternatives to today's system are, they are already mentioned in demand transport and certainly a rise in quality. There was a brief mention of passenger train traffic. In the case of passenger traffic, it was clear that when quality changed, the number of passengers also increased significantly. This is actually the basis and the expectation. I'm sure we could get on with the passenger train traffic. Rather, it has been a concern on the part of the company that the number of new trains has not been provided to the Ministry. Now for the bill itself. Andres Metsoja said it was not worth looking at politically. I think this bill is very political. This is a matter of principle: will it be decided on the ground whether people on the ground will take these decisions, whether the need will be reviewed as to whether the network will be restructured? And this draft is also political in the sense that, at the time of the submission of the Pro Patria draft, the IRL must make it so that, if the draft has already been supported by the Commission and is supported by it in the first, second or whatever reading in the Chamber, it will not be lost because of pressure within the coalition or the game. I don't think they have that justification in front of their constituents. Heimar Lenk asked what would happen to a party that goes against free transport. To encourage the Fatherland, I say very simply that if a party stands up for the principles of its electorate, the number of voters usually increases. So, power! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U126	Mr Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U127	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party Group also supports the continuation of this draft. We do not necessarily see here the risk that the adoption of this bill should mean that it will immediately disappear in those counties where free public transport has been implemented. But this certainly brings the decision-making power closer to those people who use this transport, to these counties, to these municipalities. Yes, legal issues may need to be reviewed here: whether public transport centres are entrusted with tasks by the state or local authorities, who can decide on financial allocations, whether or not the public transport centre itself as an NGO. The problems of legal clarity may be in this draft, but it is obvious that they can be solved if they are of good will. In fact, the idea expressed in the draft is that decision-making must be brought to the hands of public transport centres themselves. It is based on a very universal principle that could even be, in some sense, world-view. In a strange way, it is'subsidiarity', sometimes in my opinion the term 'gloss principle' is used in Estonian. It says that where decisions can be made at a lower level, these decisions must also be made at a lower level. As far as Pärnu County is concerned, I have actually heard from direct sources the same problems that Andres Metsoja talked about very nicely here. Local governments of illogical shape have emerged there: there is a city that is far from the city's natural boundaries. There is obviously a need for cooperation between the municipalities to organise these things. There is a new bus terminal, the costs of which need to be covered, but which is certainly convenient and necessary for public transport consumers. The government should look at the whole and ensure that the money is distributed, but it is reasonable to leave it to the local level, even to the public transport centre, when the local government has called it into practice, to the specific decisions on which it is going, whether it is paid or free. That's how it could work. I would like to emphasise once again that this is a political issue, which is why ministers could really have the courage not to push ahead to justify officials, but to settle this dispute for themselves. And in this hall, exactly the same. I hope that this draft will also come to second and third readings, and the MPs and the political groups will not vote on any coalition-keeping or not-keeping agreements, but on how they consider it appropriate to organise this area. I think that in this case, there are all the assumptions that this bill will probably, in some respects, in a modified form, reach acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U128	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Tanel Winter. Speak up, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U129	Thank you. I want to thank Kristen Michal for this reminder, and just in terms of information, to say that we are now in Saaremaa reaching from words to deeds. We already have the corresponding systems installed on social transport cars, and the software side that concerns ordering should be completed immediately. So smart and demand-based public transport should now become a reality in the example of Saaremaa, so that it does not just remain in words. Just as the light cable on the Internet is being transported to our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U130	The negotiations are over. Honourable Riigikogu, the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs is to conclude the first reading of draft 664. At the same time, the Centre Party Group has proposed to reject draft 664 at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the Centre Party Group 664, to reject the draft law amending the Public Transport Act at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of the proposal... [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] 38 members of the Riigikogu are in favour and against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Draft 664 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U131	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the building code initiated by Riigikogu members Andres Metsoja, Tanel Talve, Erki Savisaare, Urve Palo, Toomas Pauri, Märt Sults, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Toomas Väinaste, Barbi Pilvre, Hardi Volmeri, Hannes Hanso, Jaanus Marrandi, Heljo Pikhofi, Toomas Jürgenstein, Valeri Korbi, Peeter Ernitsa, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Krista Aru, Külliiki Kübarsse, Marko Pomerantsi and Raivo Aegi. The opening waitress is Andres Metsoja. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U132	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I'll try to be more convincing with this bill. Draft 703 concerns the amendment of the Construction Code. Both Tanel Talve and Erki Savisaar from the broadband support group have actively participated in the drafting process. We come back to the hall with this bill, first and foremost, to deal with broadband issues. With this, we want to follow up on our previous initiative, which has become a law and which concerns the cross-use of infrastructure. From the discussions or decision-making processes that took place in the meantime, so much that when we discussed how to cross-use infrastructure, we have now reached the point that a call for 'white areas' has been announced. I also know that these offers have been submitted and that the Technical Surveillance Authority is specifically engaged in the construction of these white areas. But now to the bill. On the one hand, the draft reduces red tape, particularly in the context of the development of a communication cable network. Last time we talked to our support group about cross-use of infrastructure at all, this time, with the draft amendment of the construction code, we are talking about how to harmonise the construction conditions of an electrical installation and a communication installation. In particular, a decision was taken a few years ago in this very hall that, when it comes to low voltage and medium voltage lines of up to 35 kilovolts, this construction could be carried out in a simplified manner. Unfortunately, the situation remains that the construction of communication and electrical installations is not combined in the context of legislation. However, we know that the same electric mast, where the optical cable will probably be installed in the future, must reach broadband infrastructure built with the support of the European Union, businesses and also national allocations, i.e. the basic broadband network. With this draft, we want to create a situation where the designer designs a network on the basis of his licence. In order for the municipality to know about this activity, it is necessary to draw up a so-called geodetic plan, which will be submitted to the local authority within 10 days according to the procedure. If a protection zone or the need for an excavation permit emerges after or during the construction of the network, you must contact the local government and ask the land owner for coordination. Basically, once the network is built or built, it will draw up operational drawings and then the network will be put into service. In addition, this draft law introduces new concepts. One of these is passive broadband infrastructure, which has actually been taken over by the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, including the regulation of 17 June on passive broadband infrastructure for the next generation electronic communications access network. We discussed the best possible terminology and the agreement remained that the transposition of this concept from this regulation could be appropriate. The cable tunnel is also introduced in addition to the ducting. You may have seen pink or orange pieces of them at the edges of the road in different colors. In fact, these are the throats that are blown into today's optical cable and then connected to the network. They can still be built under simplified procedures, but according to the law, when a light cable is blown in there, it is as if they are subject to the requirements of the Building Code through the construction and authorisation procedure. This draft also concerns restrictions on construction around the infrastructure of the state border, i.e. it creates more bureaucracy on the other hand. We were also a little embarrassed when we drafted this draft, whether it was perhaps a cluster bill that we were bringing to this hall, but we came to a common understanding. The Minister of the Interior had asked the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs to address this subject as a matter of urgency, and we found it possible to reconcile these matters. There are major issues relating to technical infrastructure in the border area, in some cases even outside the border zone. This draft says very specifically that everything that concerns border infrastructure and its development is neither public nor accessible to ordinary people. On the one hand, security and security must be guaranteed, and on the other hand, it can be done under a simplified procedure. There is a restriction for residents of the region that all those who have property in the border zone or in its immediate vicinity will be required to coordinate these activities with the Ministry of the Interior and/or the Technical Surveillance Authority in the future. In short, the content of this draft has been passed on to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U133	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U134	Thank you. The Constitution, as well as the Law on the National Border, state that the Estonian border is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty of 1920. Where we now have border control is a temporary economic border. This is not by law a state border status, as the border agreement with Russia is still pending. So where are we going to build this broadband, which is really necessary? The entire content of this draft is very much needed. Are we going to build it on the line after the Tartu Peace Treaty, or are we still talking about a temporary check line, not a state border, as stated in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U135	Thank you. The second point of the draft stipulates that the national defence building is also a border infrastructure held by the Ministry of Interior. According to paragraph 6.36 of the 2015/2019 Action Programme of the Government of the Republic, the Police and Border Guard Board has started to build the eastern border of Estonia on the border line of the temporary control line, including the establishment of an integrated technical surveillance system worthy of the external borders of Europe and NATO. We are talking very specifically about the option listed here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U136	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to this draft has reiterated what is well known to us that by 2020, all Europeans will have to have access to the internet at the appropriate speed. I'm not going to read it. It also stresses that high-speed internet access must be available in Estonia throughout the territory of the country. How much does this bill bring us closer to this goal so that fast internet access in Estonia will be available to everyone by this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U138	Thank you. Certainly, this bill will help all market participants, because building an optical cable will be easier to build at a point one. Point two: it will certainly also have a significant impact on the cover of 'white areas'. It is actually pointed out here that according to the electricity distribution forecast, this would mean building in 'white areas' of 3500 building permits, issuing a construction notice and issuing a user notification. And, if you look at it more broadly, for the construction of communication lines, the construction notification and the operational notification should be submitted in almost 50,000 cases. This is all real time and real money that should be paid for by us, whether taxpayers or service consumers. The estimated additional cost would be approximately EUR 4.8 million, for which a modern communication link could be established for 3200 households in the 'white areas'.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U139	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U140	Thank you. I will continue with the previous question. You yourself mentioned that this broadband is coming to the temporary control line, and that is what the whole bill is about. So why don't we talk about a temporary control line in this bill? Paragraph 4 of the draft law, § 1211, is 'Restrictions on the construction of a state border in the vicinity of infrastructure'. And elsewhere, the term'state border' is used. Why aren't these terms spoken here, as is provided by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U141	Thank you. In fact, it deals with two issues of the draft law. Indeed, one of them concerns the construction and construction of a light cable as an installation, the installation either in the ground or in the air. And the other side touches the border area, the building of this border strip. There's a special regulation. The elements of the border strip are, for example, a patrol track, a barrier fence, bridges and sails, a trace strip, access roads and other necessary ones. Specifically, the case you have pointed out that we are building a light cable on the border, on the border strip, does not hold one position on one. It may also be put there in certain cases, but there are very many elements of technical infrastructure. Technical infrastructure is, in fact, a set: it is not house-shaped, but there may be very different facilities, as I have already said, that somewhere further away from the border strip is a drone landing and loading site. It is as if the public is blinded by all the activities that are or are not recorded in the building register. On the other hand, people living near the area or even bordering it in any way have a duty to carry out the coordination procedure in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U142	Thank you, Andres Metsoja! No further questions for the initiator. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Erki Savisaar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on Tuesday, 9 October and the initiator introduced it there as thoroughly as he did here a moment ago. During the debate, we have raised some additional questions. The question was whether this law would have retroactive effect. In response, we found that this draft does not start to explain facilities retroactively in the context of ownership, but gives the local government and the communication company the opportunity to save almost EUR 5 million by cutting red tape. There is still a substantive amendment to this. If a pipe or a rocking pipe has already been laid down, the construction law allows a copper cable to be installed there in a simplified way, but for some reason no optical cable can be installed there. This bill also allows a simplified installation of the optical cable in the pipe. We also really had the question of whether it would be good to reconcile the two different initiatives, the objective in one draft, if it were not more sensible to make two drafts. We have come to the Commission's understanding that both are involved in amending the building code and overlap in some part of their content, and therefore they can also be dealt with in a single draft. At the end of the debate, it was decided by consensus to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 30 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U144	Uno Kaskpeit, please! Question to the Commission's waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U145	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Was the Commission still discussing this question of the baseline and the border? Or is it that everyone in the Commission who is so ignorant does not even know what the difference is between the line of reference and the border of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U146	There was no discussion in the Commission on the concepts of national borders and reference lines. However, if the draft needs to be supplemented, it will be possible to make and improve the corresponding amendments between the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U147	There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U148	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to explain the contents of this bill for a very long time. I think that's clear enough. I actually want to thank all of you who have contributed to improving access to the Internet for our people. I think this is a very good example of how we can do good things in the Riigikogu, if necessary, in consensus and cross-party. When we started dealing with this issue with our good colleagues Andres Metsoja and Erki Savisaar in 2015, we said already at the time that there would not have been any particular obstacles in itself in order to bring this reliable, affordable and reasonably fast internet connection to people if it were to be done well. But as they say, better late than never! We have really worked very hard with you, ladies and gentlemen, all that the members of the Riigikogu can do to resolve the very great concern of people that there is no Internet connection, that you do what you want, that there is not yet to date. I very much hope that the steps we take will lead to this internet connection soon reaching people. So once again, thank you for showing us that the Riigikogu is not only a place of controversy, but that we can actually do something together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-16_U149	There is no further wish for negotiations. First reading of bill 703 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 30 October. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 12.31 p.m.
