ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 7th working week of the VII session of the Riigikogu. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U2	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to hand over, on behalf of the Free Party Group, the draft law supplementing the law on the financial management of the local government unit. We want to add two new paragraphs to one paragraph, that is § 28. Firstly, that the municipality and city administration, the local authority and the authority administered by the public authority may not purchase press broadcasts and paid articles using public funds. That would be the first new cut. And another: the municipality and city administration, the local authority and the authority administered by the local authority may not purchase advertising that departs from the tasks of informing the local government by law and organising local life. This short draft is accompanied by an explanatory statement. We've been thinking for quite a while about what we have to do with this PBK. What must we do in a situation where all our money is being used in a completely irrational way, also allowing corruption and influencing international relations? We have come to the conclusion that one thing that the legislator can do is to change the financial management of a local authority so that this deplorable activity is excluded. Buying programmes and paid articles for public money is in no way one of the core functions of the municipality, but the change we have proposed does not limit the general freedom of the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U3	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U4	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, We present an inquiry into the establishment of the state gymnasium of the city of Narva and experiments in the organisation of the education of Russian-language children. On 24 May 2016, Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science at the time, and Tarmo Tammiste, Mayor of Narva, signed an agreement expressing their determination to establish two state secondary schools in the city of Narva. The establishment of state secondary schools, as we know, allows the state to improve student learning conditions with the support of investments and, at the same time, leaves the city with more opportunities to spend money to improve the learning environment in primary schools. This means, among other things, a greater presence of the state in Narva. In 2016, two state secondary schools in Narva were planned with a total of 900 study places. The agreement was that by the time the state upper secondary schools were started, the municipality would reorganize its general education schools into primary schools and by 2021 there would be two state secondary schools in Narva. Students in Narva, one of the largest cities of Estonia, deserve a modern learning environment and diverse opportunities to develop their talents in their home town. Unfortunately, no news has come from the government of Jüri Ratas about state secondary schools in Narva. There is also concern that we have heard about educational experiments led by the Central Party in the capital, which specifically concern Russian-language children. We therefore ask the Minister for Education and Research why the government of Jüri Ratas has suspended the process of establishing state secondary schools in Narva, which the state and the city started together. Will the government and the Minister of Education oppose the reform of the school network and equal opportunities for children and young people? We also want to know what the Minister of Education thinks about the experiments of party partners in Tallinn, especially from an educational point of view. As we know, the Human Development Report recommends the transition to a unified Estonian education system. Does the Minister support this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U5	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U6	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have seven members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to turn to Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. This concerns the validity of insurance medicine in Estonia. In particular, we note that the principle of insurance medicine is being violated in Estonia, according to which the financing of health care services is based on the interests of the insured. Rather, health insurance funds are used in public hospitals, despite the current price list for health care services, for disproportionately large investments, the ultimate goal of which, modern care and diagnosis, unfortunately, will not be available to both the residents of Põlva County and Hiiumaa due to the large debts of health care institutions, but also to the residents of Tallinn and Tartu at the end of the year. We have five questions for the Minister on the use of a disproportionately high amount of health insurance for investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U7	As representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U8	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Defence Union Act and the Income Tax Act. Secondly, the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces and consequently amending other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and tobacco law. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Fifth, the draft cyber security law. In the Riigikogu, Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. And sixth, the draft law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U9	I have adopted seven drafts and two inquiries. We deliver them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 85 members of the Riigikogu at the plenary session. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the seventh working week of the VII session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U10	Let's get to the agenda. The first inquiry by Andres Herkel, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõm, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsepp. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U11	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Indeed, the representatives of the Free Party have on 18 January presented a question to the Prime Minister about what we think is extremely important in view of Estonia's future and development in the decades ahead. The fact that the number of working hands in Estonia is decreasing and the population also shows a tendency to decline is a well-known fact, but it also involves the fact that the Estonian population is substantially ageing in the next decades. What can be done in such a situation? Tendency has usually been considered negative, but population scientists generally view it as a passionate process that inevitably goes hand in hand with the modern era of society. And complaining about this negativity isn't going to get us the best of things right now. The best way forward is if our people live a healthier life and are able to endure longer in the labour market if our society is able to provide better employment for older people. From this point on, we will certainly also come to the question of whether the retirement age should be increased at some point. Or, if not, at least ensure that people who have reached retirement age have a sufficient and affordable application. This requires more flexibility in the organisation of work, so that, even in the event of a declining capacity for work, work can still be provided for people. We believe that answering these questions is much more important for our society and much more constructive than the introduction of a labour force, which is often spoken of under the pressure of interested entrepreneurs. I think that this solution would create major problems in society in a long perspective, as we have already seen in many parts of Western Europe. More importantly, how we are able to apply our existing potential sensibly. And if you say something else in advance, I note that the proportion of people of working age I am thinking of is now 61% of the age of 20 to 64, but it can be predicted that by the end of 2050 it will fall by less than 50%. It is very difficult for us to do something about these figures, but we believe that the state can take steps to ensure that older people have a better working capacity. Our discussion tomorrow is about care insurance, but it's just as important to make sure that people who can work can work. So we have a series of questions for the Prime Minister. What legislative changes are planned in the Labour Code to create better opportunities for older people to work part-time? What steps are being taken to change the laws so that older ones are more interested in doing additional work? Is there age discrimination in the labour market and, if so, in what form? We've been receiving signals on this, but we're not quite sure if they're statistically acceptable. And there is certainly a need to work towards welcoming older people in the labour market. What is the plan to change the work organisation of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund in order to better occupy older people? Jne. We have five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U12	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, I would like to thank the Free Party Group for raising this very important issue. If you don't mind, there's a word for introduction. First of all, what the representative of the heirs said in his introduction is true. Our population is now, I emphasise, now, shrinking and also ageing. Let's hope these trends change. The Government of the Republic takes these developments extremely seriously. We have discussed both population and pension policies in depth. In order to increase the number of years of full life for people in Estonia, improve access to health care and make the health system more sustainable, over 220 million euros per year will be added to the budget of the Health Insurance Fund in 2018,2021 and around 100 million euros per year in the future. We have increased support for a family rich in children and are reviewing the parental benefit system in order to make the chances of re-entering the labour market more flexible. It must not be sanctioned by the total loss of any income. We want to further support families with children, including, of course, young parents. We also implement pension reform to improve the livelihood of older people and give them more incentives to work through flexible pension systems. In autumn 2017, support was paid for the first time to pensioners living alone. We will continue to pay close attention to demographic issues. I very much hope and actually believe that we can count on constructive cooperation between all members of the Riigikogu and all political parties. The point of your inquiry is aimed at the employment of older people. Before answering questions, I will give you some figures. It is certainly always possible to do things better than these figures show, but it must be said that Estonia is at the forefront of older people's employment in Europe. We have just over a quarter of people aged 65 to 74, while in the European Union, on average, only one tenth of people work in this age group. The employment rate of people aged 55 to 64 is also high in Estonia: 67.7% of those in this age group are employed. If we compare it with the European Union average, it will be 57.5%. Only three Member States of the European Union have a better situation than we do. This shows, on the one hand, that the Estonian employers value older people highly and apply their knowledge and experience willingly. On the other hand, it refers to the very great motivation, wills and desire of older people in Estonia to apply themselves. Of course, this does not mean that the state should not make an effort to create better opportunities for older people in the labour market. We have a long way to go because, for example, South Korea, Japan, Iceland and New Zealand are better off. Nearly half of the pensionable population are employed in Iceland. And I think it is good for everyone: it is good for people themselves, for employers and, of course, for the state. Now the questions. Number one: What legislative changes are planned in labour legislation to create better opportunities for older people to work part-time? 'The Government of the Republic intends to increase flexibility in employment relations in terms of time and place of work. The changes are expected to bring people into the labour market who prefer a greater choice of time to work, a lower workload or the possibility of working as teleworking, for example, at home. These changes will encourage all people to work part-time and will certainly help older people. Of course, people's knowledge of the benefits that support the part-time work of the elderly must be improved. For example, if employers usually also pay social tax for part-time workers at least EUR 155 and 10 cents per month, in the case of pensioners, social tax is paid on the actual remuneration paid, even if the social tax is less than that amount. This exception supports working part - time for the elderly, but often it is simply not known. The second question: 'What steps are being taken to amend the law (National Pension Insurance Act, Income Tax Act, etc.) so that older people are more interested in doing additional work? ' To increase the motivation of older people for work, the Government of the Republic plans to implement pension reform. It proposes a flexible retirement age: people can choose the right retirement time for themselves. It is important that flexible pensions are also paid when working. At present, no early retirement pension is paid while working, which is why many older people give up work. Pensioners may also be encouraged to work if flexible pensions can be partially withdrawn or deferred. This will allow working pensioners to raise a higher pension at a time when they no longer want to work. The third question: "What are we going to do about age discrimination in the labour market? ' I would like to point out that discrimination against older people in the labour market is already prohibited by the Equal Treatment Act. Compliance with the requirements of the law is monitored by the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner, to whom people can turn to for an opinion in case of suspicion of discrimination. In the event of infringement of the requirement of equal treatment, a person shall have the right to claim compensation for material and non-material damage caused to him through a court or labour dispute committee. In addition, communication activities aimed at the general public and target groups will be combated by unequal treatment. This raises awareness of human rights, the principle of equal treatment, the consequences of unequal treatment, the possibility of protecting rights, as well as the importance of accessibility everywhere. This is also necessary to support the participation of older people in the labour market. In order to reduce age discrimination in the labour market, employers' awareness and willingness to act and skills are also actively addressed. This year, for example, first diversity labels will be issued to highlight differences between valued employers. They will be issued to at least 15 organisations at the diversity label conference on 21 March. The main theme of the conference is the age of the employees. Based on examples from both the public and private sectors, it is planned to discuss how to overcome stereotypes related to both older and young people. The benefits to the organisation of workers of different ages will be explained. Question 4: "What are the plans to change the working arrangements of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund so that older jobseekers, including those of retirement age, can gain more certainty and real opportunities to find a job application? 'Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, with the support of the European Social Fund, provides all labour market services for pensioners. This enables older ones to improve their skills and find the right job for themselves. Of course, it is important to keep under constant review that the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund provides services well and in a human-friendly manner, increasing the security of all jobseekers. Last question, No 5: 'How can we develop measures for business support structures in such a way that businesses pay more attention to their people, including the potential of older people, rather than seek relief from labour shortages, first of all, in immigration from third countries? ' This last question may relate primarily to the desire of Estonian entrepreneurs to increase their immigration quota, but I very much hope that entrepreneurs also want to realise the potential of our older people. I am taking this opportunity to protect these businesses and those business organisations that actually create these opportunities. And there are a lot of them in Estonia. So thank you to Estonian entrepreneurs! The employment rate in Estonia is one of the highest in Europe: of all people aged 20 to 64, we have a share of 78.5%. As I said earlier, Estonia is also at the forefront of older people's employment in Europe. There is no reason to believe that Estonian entrepreneurs do not want to use all our workforce. This would not be possible under declining population conditions. Certainly, the state must help employers to occupy the most vulnerable groups a great deal, but I do not think there is any reason to criticise entrepreneurs at the moment. On the contrary, they must be supported. Thank you. I am, of course, willing to respond to further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U14	Questions for the Prime Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! You spoke of flexible employment relationships and part-time work. In this regard, I recall that the Free Party has twice presented a draft proposal to the Government of the Republic during its term of office. There has been talk of a shift to hourly wage calculations, which would significantly help to ensure such flexibility. Either time, this proposal has not been supported in this Chamber. Do I draw the right conclusion from what you are saying that the current government is prepared to implement this innovation? This would certainly contribute to greater employment for women and older people and to the employment of people living in the countryside, which is the most difficult problem. The same proposal is included in the Golden League proposals for the Estonian Cooperation Assembly. Are you familiar with the Golden League proposals and, if so, how do you view them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U16	Thank you. If we start from the regional point of view you mentioned, it is true that the difference in employment is severalty percent over Estonia. When comparing older people's employment in Northern Estonia with 62.5% in North-East Estonia and 46.6% in North-East Estonia, the difference is noticeable. So, in any case, that's something that we need to pay attention to. When it comes to greater inclusion of older people in the labour market and in the labour market, I think we need to be guided by the steps that should motivate people to continue working. I'll be right back on the hourly wage bill, but first I'll talk about attitude. I remember that a few members ago in this Chamber were discussing such a decision that a certain age should not be nominated as rector of a public university. I am pleased that this restriction was lifted at one point. In my opinion, the signal given to this restricted society was very wrong. As I said in my answers, the system must be flexible: it is good for people to be able to choose when they retire. This is extremely important, extremely important! I also pointed out that, when it comes to any reform that affects older people too, we must always bear in mind the impact this reform has on the labour market. You have referred to the hourly rate of pay a few times and you want to know if the government could support it. I really don't have any calculations on this, and I can't tell you right now that it's not right, it's wrong. But I think we could discuss it. Especially in the light of the fact that we are going to meet the new pension system. This reform is currently being prepared and, at the end of the first quarter of this year or at the beginning of the second quarter, the government should come out and send it to the Riigikogu. I already told you about early retirement. In my opinion, the current system of non-payment of this pension, together with salary, and the choice of either, should be abolished. I'm sure that would increase the motivation. It is also important to encourage part-time work, which should directly mean that the employer should in future be more comfortable and also cheaper to hire people to work part-time. So all the ideas you put out, I would think carefully, I wouldn't take them off the agenda. As far as the Golden League proposals are concerned, I am not prepared to answer to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U17	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! It was said that in the future, the pension system would probably allow you to work when you receive a pension and, at the same time, increase your pension. Do you think that such a measure could have an impact not only on current young people but also, in the near future, on encouraging more pensioners to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U19	Thank you. I think it is very right to ask this question. Of course, we also need to think about improving the lives of the elderly today. We may be able to reform the pension system, but the transition to the new pension system will take over 10 years, maybe 15 years. This raises the question of what are the measures that can be taken immediately in the interests of pensioners. That's very right! The sooner we can move forward, the more capable we are financially, the better. To claim that the final application of the new pension system will come in two or three or four years, well, it would not be right to speak here in the Riigikogu Chair. But the fact that the transition will start in the next two or three years, if the Riigikogu considers it right and adopts this law, could be possible. What can you say in concrete terms to present - day elderly people? Maybe we have indexing in the law. That's point one. Whether it is 7.6% or some other percentage, it depends on the monetary and economic performance of our country. In April this year, we will face a 7.6% increase in pensions. Now point two. We still compare our pension systems with those of other European countries. I personally feel, and probably most of the members of the Riigikogu feel, that this system will not be changed by Estonia. If you are a pensioner and your income is both salary and pension, it would be bad if at one point you had to choose between going to work or giving up your pension. I believe that it will never work in Estonia. True, in some countries this is the case, but in Estonia, the elderly receive both pensions and salaries. I do not know whether or not you had this background in mind when you asked your question, but if we look at the average old-age pension and the rate of relative poverty, there will be a major problem. Unfortunately, the relative poverty rate is now higher than the average old-age pension. This difference is about €50, €60 or €70. I think that this distinction needs to be changed and it cannot, as you said when you asked your question, wait for the next generation to retire. How to help the elderly today is, in my opinion, one of the topics of debate before the next Riigikogu elections. It is interesting how the various parties see this solution: what could be the sources of cover and what the whole system could be. I think it is right to debate this over the next 12 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U20	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! My question concerns age discrimination. You said that the Equal Treatment Act prohibits age discrimination in the workplace. It's true. However, there is not much talk about this problem. However, older people feel that they are not in the same position as younger ones. We do not have very many statistics or studies on this either. Our third question was on this subject. Maybe I wasn't careful enough, but I didn't notice whether you mentioned the statistics on how many older people have experienced age discrimination on the labour market. The second part of the question concerns the Commissioner's ability to deal with these appeals. The Commissioner's financial and human resources are well known to be very limited. And given an ageing society, it can be predicted that the number of these visits will increase. Are these resources sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U22	Thank you. Very briefly, I think, of course, that age discrimination is actually a problem. At the same time, I didn't bring up any figures, no percentage. We don't really have that kind of statistics. You're asking if a shortage of money is a problem. I guess we always live in limited financial resources. Whether or not the proposals on this issue come up when discussing the country's budgetary strategy and state budget is now becoming clear in the government negotiations. I hope that, at the end of April, you can be specifically told what is foreseen in this area. Now, I don't know if it's best to use the word 'discrimination'. Older people are free to enter the labour market. In my opinion, the attitude of society has become much better, and it has become felt that the experience of life is actually very valuable. And life experience is, there's nothing to do, especially for older people. I gave an example of a very high public position. Yes, in Estonian society another 10 to 12 years ago, it was when you became 63 or 65 years old, for example, a very bad signal. The border was up ahead. But regardless of whether a person is a rector, professor, teacher, postman or ditch hall, everything depends on what kind of work he works, what kind of knowledge he knows. True, much also depends on the health of a person, whether he is able to do his job. So a number of factors need to be taken into account to keep older people on the labour market. Now forward, your third question. What did I say when I answered that? I said that the first diversity labels will be issued this year. We cannot draw the equivalents everywhere, we know that poor access to many jobs is quite often a problem. And what to deny here is often a problem for older people who do not know how to access one institution or another. And it's very right to pay attention to it. Some time ago, a large company was recognised for having significantly increased the recruitment of women aged 55+. I think this is a positive example of the changed attitude of society. If you look at different countries, I said in the introduction that, for example, in Iceland, almost half of the people of retirement age are employed. In my opinion, Estonia should also strive for this, not think that we are now at the forefront of the European Union and that the work has been done with it. Studies have been carried out that the primary incentive to remain in work is not a fiscal factor. The main thing is what you also mentioned in your question: the attitude of society. And in my opinion, the attitude of society is improving in Estonia. We know a lot of people who are older than 63 or 65 years and yet eager to continue working, to contribute. This direction is in any case positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U23	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Making the labour market more flexible is crucial for the implementation of teleworking. How important do you consider the possibility of using teleworking? Secondly, do our laws need any change in this respect and, if so, will it be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U25	Thank you. I consider this very important. I also think that this focus should become increasingly common in the public sector. We have quite a lot of teleworking in the private sector, and we still hear that people work at their home office, but I don't think it's a sin at all if we offer such an opportunity in the public sector. Whether teleworking is done three days a week, four days a week or one day a week, it is a matter of negotiation. Is there anything that needs to be regulated in legislative terms? In my opinion, it is also quite a matter of the will to encourage teleworking and not to demand, for example, that we all be at the table at meetings. There are certainly meetings where it is necessary for a person to be physically present, but using the digital opportunities of our country, we should increasingly encourage teleworking. It is true that digital solutions are still not working very well in our most remote regions. That is why we have also foreseen better, faster internet access in the so-called last mile. I very much support it. Thus, in the public sector too, this trend should increasingly be maintained. In my opinion, it is not at all bad if a person can, I don't know, 30%, 40%, 60% of his or her job be done at home and, therefore, maybe live outside the centres with his or her family.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U26	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Very dear Prime Minister! The employment of the elderly is certainly also strategically very important, given the demographic situation of the Estonian state. At times, however, it seems that your words cannot be considered very sincere. What's the matter? We are taking pensioners who are currently working: oh, wonder, it turns out that the members of the government are losing a little over EUR 20 a month, but some of them have to give up some EUR 90. Do you think that makes sense? And why is the Commission holding back the reform party's draft on this matter, even though it could solve a particular issue? Let us be honest, in this situation where the state needs busy hands, the additional taxation of pensioners' incomes, especially in comparison with those of members of the government, is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U28	Thank you for that question. I had assumed that such a question would come during this debate. And it's very good that you're asking. I think it is best that we take out the data from the Social Insurance Board, which says that there is a high probability that about 154000 pensioners will benefit from the tax-free minimum reform, which is 42.6%. They have a pension of up to 16.8 euros. According to the Social Insurance Board's forecast, 51% of pensioners will have the same net pension, and now it will be the one that only 6.45% of your contributions are initially estimated to be pensioners who have to pay more to the Treasury. So if you answer on the basis of the facts, you can say that the reform of the tax-free minimum that you are attacking actually wins most of them, and that should mean that most should want to do more hours of work, you should want to do more work. That's what the statistics refer to. But the final figures, how many lose or win in income compared to last year, will be in the first half of March next year. Wage figures and all these income tax-free minimum applications are still coming up and it will take the country some time to sum them up. But I assure you, in answer, that most of this reform will win. Now, can the reform be such that no one loses, that it is not 6.45%? Well, it's always worth pursuing, but whether it's conceivable is a question of your own. At present, we do not tax people differently in the sense that there is one tax-free minimum rate of EUR 500. I think that's important too. In addition, this issue must be addressed as a whole. Very many of these 6.45% work in medicine, education or culture, and I believe you agree that one of the government's priorities has been the increase in the pay of educators in schools. We also want to help municipalities to do so in kindergartens. Our aim is also to increase the pay of cultural workers. I guess I am not wrong when I say that the minimum wage in the cultural field will rise as high this year as it is in the field of education: EUR 1150. This, in my opinion, is a significant increase, with a wage increase of over 300 euros compared to last year. We also mean, of course, medical or, let's say, hospital staff salaries. So you have to look at the picture as a whole. These wage increases will certainly compensate for the loss you referred to in your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U29	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U30	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! What is the average age of the Prime Minister's staff? Can you possibly say that? Do you have positive examples from the State Chancellery or from a separate Prime Minister's office that you really have people of such a dignified age at work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U31	Thank you. No, I can't say that. If you are asking for the average age of the staff of the State Chancellery or the staff of a separate Prime Minister's office, I really do not know how to say it. Do I have any experience in this field? If you don't mind, I'll start with this house, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. If I had the honour of working here in 2007, in the next ten years, my advisor was a retired gentleman for a very long time. He did his job very well, and I respected him for being able to contribute every day. I have another personal experience from my family. My role models, both my parents have worked very long, they could have retired much earlier. They've made a lot of contributions to their field. I will, of course, calculate the average age of the Prime Minister's office and send the result to you. It's a mathematical operation. Do people work in the State Chancellery? I understand that the content of the question was also the one who is already in retirement age? Definitely works. I can send you that percentage.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U32	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U33	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! I'm gonna come back to the unemployment fund issue one more time. You assured the respondents that everyone, including those of retirement age, would be treated equally at the unemployment fund. But let me ask you a little bit more. You were talking about the planned pension reform, and I thought you'd be proud of it. Are you fully satisfied with the role and activities of the unemployment fund so far, or do the government also have any reform or simply promotion plans in this regard? The job of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has undoubtedly produced results, but let us be honest; hundreds of millions of European money have been spent there, so these results have been achieved with a very large amount of money. Is there any way to develop an unemployment fund in practice? Maybe turn it into a job agency that helps a much wider contingent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U34	Thank you. If the question is whether what we are doing now is enough, when we talk, I do not know, about career guidance, when we talk about different trainings, when we talk about the most basic, or CV, when we talk about traineeships, I believe that the unemployment fund can certainly offer these services more and better, with better quality, using the resources of the European Social Fund. That's for sure! In the pension reform plan that I described and which should come to the government table in the coming weeks, it is believed that flexibility is an important objective for people to really be able to choose when they retire and when they stop working. I think that this flexibility should, in any case, be included in it. Of course I think it's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U35	No further questions for the Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U36	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister Ratas and members of the Riigikogu! I will begin my little summary of this debate with the words that were said about a year ago here in the Riigikogu at an important seminar organised by Praxis and presenting the results of the pan-European project MOPACT. It was very clear: Estonia is ageing old-fashioned. This is a very serious issue, because at the same time we are talking about the fact that we are aging actively and with great dignity here in Estonia. These two things therefore contradict each other. Prime Minister Ratas listed the various steps that have recently been taken, starting with the answers and before going to the questions. I was looking forward to reaching out to older people. The allowance for a family rich in children, the flexibility of the parental benefit system, the support for a single parent and a single pensioner were mentioned. The pension reform and flexibility in deciding whether to retire and the funding of the Health Insurance Fund were also noted. These last two are naturally linked. If we consider it important that Estonia does not age in an old-fashioned way, then a broader and more compact approach is needed. Because if we want to talk about active ageing, we need to draw on four very important starting points, the first of which is work and employment. Secondly, social activity, health and personal coping, and social activity and all that are conducive to us are the living environment that surrounds us. It is true that we know that it is embedded in the consciousness of every Estonian, that Estonia is an ageing country and that we have problems with it. It is like a mantra with which we begin all discussions and by which we justify some disproportionate decisions. It is also true that among the countries of the European Union, if we look at any group of older people, we are in the top three. At the same time, we are no longer so good from other indicators. We are 25th in social activity, 20th in health and livelihood, 23rd in social activity. So here we can draw a simple conclusion: yes, our elderly people work much longer than their peers in Europe. And when the Prime Minister concluded that our parents and older people are highly valued by our employers, it is true, but, on the other hand, our pensioners are also forced to work much longer to live. They work even though their health is poor, our working conditions may not be suitable for older people, and recent fiscal changes do not encourage this. There are also not enough flexible forms of work. It has also shown that, unfortunately, we are not taking advantage of the educational potential of older people. They work well below their abilities because younger ones are as if smarter, faster, etc. In other words, we throw very lightly overboard people who have the skills, the will and the willingness to contribute simply because of the fact that they have crossed the magical boundary of 50 years. However, in order to make better use of this potential in the labour market and to put the entire population ahead of society's useful cart, it is necessary to change the general view of older people: instead of burden, they must be seen as an opportunity. This also requires a significant increase in the awareness of the human resource managers of our companies, as well as that of politicians. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U37	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U38	Thank you. Similarly, there is a need to amend the laws. Today we did not hear very much about initiatives that would lead to legislative changes and support the participation of older people in the labour market. There is quite a few terms used in Estonia that are already spoken about elsewhere in Europe: 'age management in the workplace', which includes lifelong learning, career development, health promotion, health care at work, adaptation of working conditions and flexible leave and retirement. It therefore covers all these issues, but very concentrated and with older people in mind. Discrimination against older people in the labour market is a daily problem in Estonia, but we do not really pay attention to it. We do not even have statistics on this, as we have just heard. However, if we do not have the data to rely on, how can we make decisions? There is a great deal to be done in order to become old-fashioned from an ageing country that is passively characterised by the approach of paying a pension, and it is as if everything is modernly ageing. Firstly, support for lifelong learning. When we look at what is happening, the difference between young people and older people who participate in lifelong learning is not decreasing in Estonia, but is increasing. More human-centredness must be brought into the study so that we can teach older ones according to their needs. Next: favourable fiscal conditions, encouraging part-time work, flexible forms of work, including the possibility to choose working time and work. In this respect, we have a great deal to learn from the Nordic countries. Unfortunately, flexible forms of work are only available in Estonia for people with higher education and leadership, but it would be needed by older people or by people with a care load or health impairment. This is often due to the low level of management awareness of middle management, because time rather than results are assessed. Finally, I would point out that working as a cessation of punishment. In recent times, older people feel more and more that maybe you should think about rest instead of working. The Prime Minister said that things can always be done better. We have to agree to that very much. I very much hope that we will come from words to deeds, and the government will be much more aware of these issues than it has done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U39	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, There is certainly a familiar story about three blind people being brought to an animal that they had never seen or described to them. And they were asked to explain what an elephant is. One blind guy grabbed his tail and said that the elephant was like a rope, the other took his leg and said that the elephant was like a column, the third took the trunk and said that the elephant was like a snake. It seems to me that this debate has focused on either the trunk or the tail. But why did I come here? Because the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech that, on average, 10% of people in the European Union who have reached retirement age work, I hope that I will not be wrong and that one in four, or 25%, will work in Estonia. If anyone asks if this is good, it is, of course, good in the sense that people who want to work have such a chance, but I would not be so optimistic that it is precisely that. There are two control words for this problem: one is the amount of the pension and the other is the amount of the pension. How much do we intend to develop employment among pensioners, knowing that their pension is what it is now? How would the desire of pensioners to work change after pension increases more? I don't know. This study hasn't been conducted. And the other half of the same problem. You know, it used to be the 1889s and 1990s when I was wrong when 25,000 children were born in Estonia and even more. After it went down steeply and in the mid-nineties it fell to 12,000 and just below it. For a couple of years, they were like this. After the start of parental pay, the birth rate stabilised at about 14000 children. Are we still discussing this fundamental problem? In fact, the Estonian population has decreased by 20% over the last quarter of the century. We know that. This means that even if the situation had been stable, we should have 20,000 children every year. These are the people who will come into the labour market in 20 years' time, who will produce material values, thanks to whom the social system will remain. Why are we having so few children? Why aren't there at least 20,000? Will the problem be resolved if 100% of pensioners work? Do you see such a solution for the future? Is that a positive solution? Should we not look at this problem from the other side and see the whole picture? We need to create conditions for young women to give birth, so that the average number of children is not even 2.2, but even 3. There is a need to create a system that promotes the birth of children, not the work of the elderly. So I would say, in a sense, it was a pleasure to listen to both questions and answers to them, but I think it has been a very one-sided view of the problem that we have on the labour market now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U41	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U42	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! To Mr Stalnukhin, first of all, we are actually talking about the 55+ age group. We are certainly not talking about everyone working for the rest of their lives, that people work even when they no longer have health. But it seems to me that what you were sketching here tends to have a little wishful thinking. There is nothing to do; we have these figures for population development. And even if we are more successful in the regeneration of our population in the coming decades than the current signs show, even if we are doing very well, we will not escape the problem of an ageing population. And that is why the employment of older people is extremely important. Now, I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much for his reflection on this issue. But it seems to me that we approach this problem mentally in some ways differently. It's probably got nothing to do, party-political background. The school of the Centre Party is simply that it accepts what it learns about helplessness in society and thinks that people in need must be helped by increasing subsidies. It's all important. But this question is presented rather with the aim of asking how to make it possible for society to have the most people capable of coping with itself and to be able to do so until the highest possible age. This is the main focus of the questions. And, in fact, all these things that result from the worsening of the situation of working pensioners that we have been talking about are actually drawing this down to motivation. Now, the Prime Minister said that he is not familiar with the proposals that Mr Altosaar and the Golden League have worked together to improve the employment of older people. I think it's worth reading. These dozen proposals are certainly a good basis for bringing the debate on this issue to a higher level in society and to keep it going at all, so that we can also reach solutions. I think it is a very signicant suggestion that the activities of the unemployment fund should be reorganized in such a way that we call it a job agency that takes into account the skills, abilities and motivation of all people interested in work, regardless of their age. The loss of physical abilities of the elderly may be compensated by other properties that are not present in younger people and are very valuable. He also talks here about the problem of entrepreneurship and a separate start-up measure for people aged 55+. It is certainly an issue in itself how to keep people in business so that they search for outputs through it. I don't know what to say about the average age of staff at the Prime Minister's office. And I think average age is even a secondary issue. But I have noticed that all human communities, or collectives, where age diversity is as great as possible, are actually more creative. So if there are 60-year-olds in one collective and under 30-year-olds, it will definitely contribute to a wider picture. One proposal was to abolish the monthly calculation of social tax, which was already mentioned today. Finally, Prime Minister, I think you will allow yourself to send these dozen proposals. I'm going to read out a very interesting statement here. I don't appreciate whether it's right or not. Indeed, unlike technological innovations, social and political innovations are better prepared to be implemented and implemented by older people. I therefore ask you to pay close attention to the legislative initiatives that the Free Party Group has brought to you today in the absence of Jüri Adams in this Chamber. It is a great pity that they have not been taken into account here in three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U43	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish to negotiate, the Prime Minister has. Please, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U44	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I came here for the last speech. I just wanted to say thank you. It is great if you, Mr Herkel, say that these were pretty good answers, and then there will be a break for thought, and there will be talk as usual, that the Centre Party and so on. It's a good thing they didn't bring Russia in today. I have observed that you and now the representatives of other parties are still called Russia. But that's it. I actually think that the subject is very important, and I did not just say in response to the question that I would like to thank the Free Party and the members of your group for raising it. I really think this is an important subject. But I don't know where you're from, that the Centre Party sees the situation that way, and the Free Party sees it. Whether to give a fishing line and put fish on the hook or not, or make any changes, I think they shouldn't be opposed. Mr Põldaru asked what to do. I said in my reply that there is a major problem in Estonia with scissors between the relative poverty rate and the average old-age pension. We can say that work harder, that we will not improve the situation, that we will not, figuratively speaking, give it a fishing rod and a fish. After all, they are still able to cope, even though they live below the limit of relative poverty, with a monthly reduction of 60 to 70 euros. I guess it's gonna work out that way, but I don't think it makes sense to be able to do it this way. It begins to be healthy when food is not normal, when living arrangements and living conditions are not normal, when life cannot be enjoyed, for example by attending cultural events, etc. I do not think this is an area in which one can say that, see, one party does so and the other. On the contrary, this is an area in which we should find a common part, because it is such an important area. The labour market is currently the most problematic factor in Estonia's entrepreneurial and economic landscape. Of course, it is great if we can also involve older people here in Estonia more in the labour market and change our attitude towards the elderly. I have indicated to you that the new pension system should be more flexible. But surely it must foresee that if a person retires and goes on working, he will not be deprived of any kind of pension. I think these are concrete things that we can think about together. I really wanted to praise you, not say anything 'but' for the word. On the contrary, thank you again to the Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U45	I am delighted to conclude the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U46	Our next question is presented by Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Jüri Adams, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp, Ain Lutsepp and Monika Haukanõmm. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U47	Mr President! Good minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 18 January, seven members of the Free Party asked the Minister for Health and Labour four questions about investment grants for health centres. In particular, as of 2015, the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) action entitled 'Supporting investment in primary health centres infrastructure in centres of attraction, ensuring accessible and diverse primary services'. This is an extremely important measure, without doubt, because the provision of primary, or family, medical care in a high-quality way is very important for our people. But we are concerned that in the first days of January this year, the Minister of Social Affairs amended the regulation entitled 'Modernization of Primary Health Centres'. Its new text has amended the stages of processing applications and added a new supporting action which was not in the first round: it is the establishment of regional health centres. This is a new concept; there have never been such health centres before. In the case of regional health centres, the aim is now to create infrastructures where "primary health centres', or "family health centres', have been brought on the same ground as the hospital operating in the county, which is part of the development plan of the hospital network. In particular, we are talking about Viljandi Hospital. In itself, the organisation of such a pilot project, the integration of different services and levels, and the piloting of all this is not a bad idea at all! That's not what we're criticizing. It is rather worrying that only one applicant may be the applicant for this support when establishing a county health centre, this is the Viljandi Hospital of SA, with which the Ministry of Social Affairs will carry out a preliminary analysis of the integration of so-called local health and social services and a project for the implementation of the pilot project. After all, the goal is good: to integrate the primary level, i.e. family medical care, specialist medical care, hospital care and social care, and to develop a new model. It's been like trying to do this for 15 years. But what is questionable about this is, once again, I stress that this possibility has not been given to other counties. A day later, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent out a press release stating that as the first round of applications has left EUR 27.9 million, the second round of applications will be opened, and that the aim will still be to ensure that there is regional balance and that regional health centres are evenly distributed across Estonia. The same press release also announced that 16 million of this EUR 27.9 million have already been planned for Viljandi Hospital. It would therefore have been fair to say that it is not 27 million but 11 million that will be distributed as a result of the open competition. The Estonian Association of Family Doctors has also protested against this with a loud voice, who has expressed very deep dissatisfaction with this decision and said that they have not been involved, that there has not been any room for negotiation. They accuse the Ministry of jeopardising the basic principles of the functioning of the health care system, nor have they taken into account existing development plans. Family doctors feel that this is unfair. That is why we have asked the Minister four questions, which we are waiting for answers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U48	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U49	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I thank you for raising this important issue, and I am happy to clarify this issue. But for starters, some homicides. The Ministry of Social Affairs has not amended this regulation on or after 2 January. But the truth is that the draft amendment to the regulation has gone to the coordination circle and the amendments you have referred to are really planned. I would be happy to explain to you why this is the case when I answer your questions. However, to begin with, this European Union action has indeed been one of the most important in terms of channelling the money from the European Union coming into health care. During this period, we have been able to channel money to medical competence centres, which have been selected North-Estonian Regional Hospital and University of Tartu Hospital, who can realise the various stages of their investment plans with the help of euro funds. The rest of the money, which is less in this period than it was before, is prioritised for the development of primary care. This has never been done before. But now we have a broader health policy direction and an agreement that the primary level is important in our society and needs to be strengthened, needs to be developed. And there is a need for development, both on the core and on the financing side, as well as more rights for family doctors and family nurses and the infrastructure of the centres. Infrastructure investments have been aimed at the concentration of family doctors in larger health centres in order to provide people with better access to medical care close to home. It is good that people near their homes can solve most of their problems so that they don't have to go to the hospital. This is why primary health centres also provide additional services that are not generally required to be provided by general medical care. The second objective has been to ensure that family medical care is available even in the long term outside major centres. After all, we must take into account both our demographic situation and the migration within Estonia. We know that in very many municipalities, family medicine is maintained by a single family doctor. The average age of family doctors is high, 55 years old, which of course means that in the long term we have problems providing medical care in remote areas. On the other hand, we also know that there is a concern about individual practices about how to help people when a family doctor is sick or wants to go on vacation. In this context, too, we support greater concentration. In itself, this is a rather distinctive decision, since family doctors are mostly private legal entities, i.e. self-employed. In addition to providing the service, the Health Insurance Fund also finances their infrastructure costs, but in principle it could be said that the primary infrastructure should be the responsibility of the family doctor himself. However, we have found that if we want to bring about a certain structural change at this level of health care, then the state's contribution is also necessary. We have used the euro for this. This money, as we know, was initially planned to be spent at EUR 85 million under this measure. Together with an own contribution of 25%, this amounts to more than 100 million, which is a very large amount. The idea behind this was that, first of all, there is probably a considerable interest in these centres at the primary level, but, second, these projects are quite costly. We planned to do this in several rounds because we thought that the family medical centres were unable to prepare their applications in good time, and we were positively surprised after the first round. We were surprised at how many requests came: in the language of bureaucracy, the output indicator for the whole measure is 35 health centres. We agreed with the European Union that we will build 35 health centres for this money. In the first round there were 56 applicants and all of these 56 applications were of such quality that they were all accepted. The government also approved the investment plan with all 56 investment projects. Later, one application was withdrawn for certain reasons from the investment plan. But in general, we have fulfilled this output indicator significantly over the so-called. In cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, applications were indeed made of such quality that they were all approved. In the first round, certain areas were not covered, and even from those investment objects that were later confirmed, some projects have not realised in the way they were expected to. Also, some of the attraction centers foreseen in Appendix 1 to the regulation were not covered. These are the three county centres of Võru, Jõgeva and Kärdla, in Harju county Loo alevik, Keila and Maardu, in Lääne-Viru county Kunda and Vinni county, in Pärnu county Vändra, Sindi or Paikuse county and in Kilingi-Nõmme county, and in Saare county Orissaare county. These are the places that were missed in the first round. And as we promised, they will be able to apply for the second round of resources to build the center. In the meantime, there has been an unexpected increase in the price of construction that has not been predicted. So, in general, the projects that were submitted to us and which were approved have become much more expensive than those that were included in the applications submitted to the State. This problem is not limited to the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Price increases have also affected a large number of other areas: education, culture, etc. Consequently, we intend to give the health centres whose project was approved in the first round an opportunity during the second round. They can apply for a certain amount to cover this increase in prices in order to build up a health centre. Otherwise, some of these 55 projects would not be realised, as construction has become so much more expensive. So when we talk about the objective of primary investment, it can be said that the first round was above expectations of success. We are helping to ensure that the projects financed in the first round can also be implemented and that is why we allow them, to a certain extent, to apply for more money to cover the entire increase. We also allow the second round to apply for money in areas where no application was made in the first round, but where the existence of a centre is important for health policy. I listed these places, they're regional attraction centers. Now Viljandi. It is a bit wrong to say that we have planned to allocate EUR 16 million to Viljandi Hospital. No, I didn't! 16 million euros is the maximum possible amount that Viljandi Hospital can apply for. Our main priority is to meet the targets set for the first level. The aim is that the places that were excluded in the first round would also apply for support and that others who have already participated would apply for an increase in funding to a certain extent to cover the increase in the cost of construction. And that money, which is beyond the consideration of these priorities, is indeed possible for Viljandi Hospital to apply for a new model. But this new model, I'll tell you when I answer your questions. First of all, is the allocation of investment aid of 16 million to the development of a pilot project with the participation of the Ministry of Social Affairs compatible with the rules of fair competition and the financing principles of the European Union's respective measure? " I have two pages of explaining why I do. I am not going to read it any further here, but we have indeed analysed it and consulted with the specialists of the Ministry of Finance. This issue has also been discussed with the European Commission in order to change the output indicator. And in general, our specialists have been assured, as far as I know, that there are no problems. Secondly, "Did the Ministry of Social Affairs amend the regulation with a view to favouring one project? " No, it's not. Firstly, as I said, our main task is to meet the targets set for the first level. These projects are in any case privileged and, if any amount is left over, it can be applied for at Viljandi Hospital. The action is in line with the investment priority formulated as follows: investment in health and social infrastructure contributing to regional and local development, reducing health inequalities and promoting social inclusion. The investment priority is also matched by the objective of using European Union funds, which is regionally available for high-quality and sustainable health services. Why are we talking about Viljandi Hospital, that's what you explained yourself, but I'll say it again. Tomorrow, the maintenance load will be discussed in the Riigikogu Hall. We see that there should be more integration between social services and health services in Estonia, there should be more integration between specialist medical care and family medical care. And Viljandi is where we develop such a local service model. This is where, on the one hand, there is a modern specialised medical care infrastructure that meets today's needs in the form of a general hospital, while, on the other hand, there is a family doctor's centre in the same place, i.e. a health centre. There we are developing a model of how integration of social services and health services can take place. We are testing it in Viljandi, but it has an impact on Estonia as a whole. As a result of this pilot, we want to implement wider health policy changes concerning funding throughout Estonia. Viljandi is where we want to pilot this model. 'Is it true that the Social Ministry official involved in the distribution of investment aid was also a member of the Viljandi Hospital Council? ' The Viljandi Hospital Council does indeed have a representative from the Ministry of Social Affairs, as in all other state-owned hospitals. However, in order to avoid conflicts of interest, these officials do not participate in financing decisions concerning specific hospitals, including the evaluation of projects. This also applies to Agris Koppel, Head of the Health System Development Department, who is a member of the Supervisory Board of Viljandi Hospital. Question 4: 'If the Viljandi Hospital already received support in the first round, why is the second round of new support assigned to them again? How many other counties have received support? How many counties have applied for aid? ' As I said, these are two different things. In the first round, Viljandi Hospital applied for money to build a primary health centre and this project was approved. The second stage we are talking about is the integration of specialist medical care and primary care, for which we are developing this local model of integration of services. In the first round they have received money for the development of the first level, and in the second round they can apply for money to build a modern, more compact general hospital with a health centre in the centre of Viljandi, not in Jamejala, where it is now. Consequently, it is understandable that the same institution applies twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U50	Questions for the Minister. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for these answers. First of all, I would like to say that our question was certainly not raised with the wish to attack the Foundation at Viljandi Hospital or the choice made. Rather, we wanted to know whether other regions showing similar initiatives had the opportunity to participate in the pilot project. But here's my question. So far, Estonian health care has been guided by the principle that primary and specialist care is kept separate, both in terms of ownership and authorisation and financing. If they're brought together now, is that principle no longer valid? Doesn't it start to dissolve somehow, or aren't these things starting to affect each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U52	Thank you. They certainly will, but not in the sense that the role of family medicine somehow disappears. What we certainly want is a positive effect: to have more integration between institutions in order to have more cooperation between family doctors working in a given region and the local hospital. One concrete example of how we can avoid a great deal of unpleasantness and also queues. When a family doctor accepts a person and sees that he has a health problem that requires some kind of research, he gives a referral and says go to that study. So the person goes to the hospital to sign up and they tell him to come here in three months for a study. In this context, the assistance provided by the family doctor is essentially inadequate. A family doctor might be able to solve this health problem if he could quickly get the study's answer. It would be necessary for a patient with a referral letter from a family doctor to be quickly, if possible, on the same day for the study. Or at least it would be reasonable to agree that a person who, according to a family doctor, needs urgent help should quickly be examined and then come back to him so that he can be given the necessary treatment. This is, of course, if he or she does not need to see a specialist. That would be very important. We're doing this right now, so I don't have any statistics on how much we have here, but basically we know that a person goes to a family doctor and needs ultrasound, for example. Since ultrasound will be available in three months, because the hospital has no motivation to give priority to family doctors, the person goes to the ER to get this study done. Sometimes the family doctor himself advises you to go to the ER: Listen, go to the ER to get these tests done and then come back to me. Not a very reasonable system. So there could certainly be more such integration. Family doctors should be able to consult with specialist doctors much better, but certainly not in the sense that they would lose the status of an independent health care professional and would somehow, I don't know, extend the hands of specialist doctors. However, this fear has been felt by family doctors that if hospitals apply for this money for setting up health centres, they will lose some of their independence. However, I think that we have largely resolved these issues with regard to this model, and cooperation should go well. Now, from your point of view, you are not opposed to financing Viljandi Hospital and the question whether others have such an opportunity. The country has chosen, it has really been an informed choice. We've chosen a hospital to develop this pilot project. There are reasons for this. In Viljandi, there are many fewer patients in some other counties, where different health services are available and available. There is also a hospital in the county owned by the state. This means that it is easier for us to make changes in health management and certain piloting than in hospitals owned by a local authority and where we do not, in principle, affect whether the hospital decides whether or not to do so. The council appointed by the local government will decide whether one model or another is desired. In Viljandi, it is simply easier for the country to do this piloting. Speaking more broadly, it is clear that we have two general hospitals, two important objects in terms of reconstruction, waiting outside Tallinn and Tartu, where there are projects. One is Viljandi, whose development has been long planned and discussed, and the other is the second stage of the Ida-Virumaa Central Hospital. These are the two most important priorities set out in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Of course, in the future, many other general hospitals will also need investment support or, say, reconstruction, conversion, etc. But these two have been on a waiting list for a long time. It is clear that Viljandi Hospital is an uncomfortable location outside the city. On the other hand, it is a clearly over-dimensioned general hospital. There are several floors empty. I don't know how many floors Helmen might know. But basically there's at least one floor definitely just canned, because the room is actually too much. I think that the result of this project should be a beautiful thing in Estonian health care. We're gonna get a hospital downtown, we're gonna get a smaller, or modern, general hospital-based facility, and we're gonna get some first-rate medical care. If social services can also be integrated into it, then it could really be a pilot in a literal sense, that is, a thing that shows everyone the way forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U53	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U54	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In my ears, it sounds like it's going to be restored to the system of health clinics. And the story that people don't get into research quickly enough seems to me to be the reason that digital registrations, digital placements, all the digital systems that exist in medicine, are not working. These limps, there are different systems that conflict with each other. Perhaps it would be more reasonable to repair these digital systems before building a new house as a pilot project. Is there some sort of research thing going on, I don't know?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U55	Thank you for your question. I'm sorry for the irony, but the digital registration doesn't replace the house. These two things don't rule out each other. Of course, there is also a need to move forward with the development of eHealth solutions. And we need to move forward faster than we've been doing so far. On the other hand, think that there will be a general solution to all the concerns of Estonian health care. Personally, I have signed up for a study at the hospital with a digital transmission and waited three months for this study. With a letter of delivery, I waited exactly as long as it didn't get any faster than it had been electronic instead of paper. But this issue, too, certainly needs to be resolved, and that is where the Ministry of Social Affairs is moving in. However, I am also giving up any time limits on this issue today, because they have always been missed. But the system is being developed. In general, there is a need for strategic decisions on different information systems. For example, the same thing that has now happened on the first level in some places. At least the IT system has a certain critical size in hospitals, and there are information security people, but the family doctors don't have it. And this has already happened in Estonian health care because some family doctors have run into the system because malware has come in. This is definitely something I support improving. We have not made any decisions, but in my opinion, the information system for family doctors in Estonia could be common and developed by the state. There could also be questions about how these information systems link to the eHealth and Health Insurance Fund database, as well as the IT systems for specialised medical care.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U56	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! There was a waiting list for three months when the family doctor sent a specialist to study. You have now commended the cooperation between the family doctor and the specialist in such a complex, and this concern has disappeared. I understand you don't have to wait another three months in line. Why don't you tell me what the reason that's going to disappear in a complex like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U58	I didn't say anything was missing. This was just one example of how cooperation between primary and specialist medical care could be more effective. In Jupiter and in certain specific places, this cooperation is already working. For example, a patient directed by a family doctor is served as a priority because his or her condition is medically assessed and his or her priority is higher. But there is no unified system for that. In some places, a person calls and says he needs a doctor's appointment because he has a pain in some part of his body. He or she will be placed in the overall queue, while his or her patient will also be placed in the queue by a family doctor who has already assessed his or her patient's need for treatment. How to improve this cooperation is an issue that deserves a much wider debate than this first-level health centre. There are countries where people can't even sign up for a specialist, and the family doctor does. A family doctor is a person with medical competence who has the necessary competence to assess whether you need to see a specialist and if you have to go there, which doctor. There are a number of topics to be discussed in this area. We have several specialties where people can go to a specialist without a referral letter. Some of them are justified for certain socio-psychological reasons, while others are the subject of personal skepticism. And these are also specializations with the longest sequences: ophthalmology, or eye disease and skin disease. People can go to these doctors without a referral, and a lot of people who really have problems, such as skin problems, are waiting in a long line for some others to show their birthmarks. It is not bad in itself if people show their birthmarks, but whether a birthmark can be malignant can be appreciated by a family physician. I know that family doctors say they have no competence for this, but I think that this issue can be resolved in the long term, so that family doctors can appreciate what are potentially dangerous birthmarks and what are not. We have some innovative solutions to run primary diagnostics. It could be implemented much more. But as a whole, the question is, yes, how can cooperation between primary doctors and specialist doctors be better promoted? And this is a much wider topic than the creation of health centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U59	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U60	Honourable President! Honourable Minister, please speak in more detail about spending this 16 million. Does this money go all the way to concrete, as they say in the jargon, or does it also include the cost of inventory? And let me ask you something, what about this hospital in Viljandi? Is it taken down, or is it used for a good purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U61	Thank you. I don't have an investment plan here, but I know the investment amount is significantly higher than 16 million. Viljandi Hospital has also collected money for several years to carry out this investment. The hospital also has some sort of credit capacity, this whole project is much more expensive. Now, this 16 million is the maximum amount under the relevant draft regulation. As I said, we will first satisfy first-level requests, as many as they come, and if there is money left, the Viljandi Hospital will be able to apply for the rest of the money. But the project itself is much more expensive. And in this overall investment plan, the equipment is expected to still be inside. But I don't have a detailed plan available today. As far as I know, with the old building at Viljandi Hospital, the plan is that maybe he's going somewhere to fill up the road. I don't know if he'll do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U62	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U63	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! Being Viljandi myself, it's only natural for me to ask here. In fact, this crucifixion is inevitable. In fact, two variants of the new building were considered: Rämejaga or Viljandi city centre. And it's natural that the county's very large and strong attraction center is where the hospital should be. But I'm gonna ask you two things now. First of all, does having two units together help to prevent specialist doctors from leaving for Tartu? And two: Viljandi's family doctors have long wanted to join, but this has not worked. Would this synergy, if family doctors and specialised doctors are together, also contribute to this cooperation? Before the project, there was supposed to be a confirmation from the family doctors that they were coming to this center? And the third thing. Viljandi is a primary centre for two municipalities or Viljandi and Viljandi rural municipality. In fact, the name does not change anything, and the family doctors who serve the people of Viljandi municipality can also be in the centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U64	Thank you. It is true that, from the primary level of the application, the applicant had to conclude preliminary contracts with a number of family doctors in order to qualify for aid at all. Viljandi Hospital's got 'em. How he's got them, I can't tell. This is a question for the management of Viljandi Hospital. It is true that this work has been carried out in different regions with different efficiency. There are reasons for this. In some cases, there have been certain fears about how things are going to work together exactly how money is going to be distributed. There is a health centre, which is financed as a whole and where family doctors work, in which way it all works. We have explained possible models and I think that the questions have been broadly resolved, but there are certainly further questions. The second reason is this purely pragmatic and historical. Some family doctors have spent their money renovating their center, they have perfectly decent rooms, and they see no need to move. They do not need to invest, they have the premises, why they should join the health centre that will be built. As a result, the number of applications from different regions has varied. I'm looking at the statistics here. For example, in Valgamaa, 16 family doctors are covered with applications at three health centres - Otepää, Tõrva and Valga - 15 family doctors - almost all, 94%. At the same time, for example, only 10 of the 50 family doctors are covered by applications in Pärnu. However, in Pärnu you can also submit applications in the second round. So the picture across Estonia is beautiful in letters.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U65	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Is it true that family doctors who join the health centre receive more money than those who do not join the project? If so, will this whole project increase or reduce access to family medical care?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U67	The primary health care providers at the health centre have a different financing model due to a different organisational model. This means that, according to the same regulation that deals with this facility, the requirements for premises are different, and the requirements for staff and additional services are different. All these services are funded and all these components are funded. So if we now fund a certain amount of square meters of space from the general budget of the Health Insurance Fund, then health centres, because they have different requirements, will be financed differently. Primary health care workers in health centres are generally offered better working conditions, more services, and a larger team. It's all supposed to be attractive in the eyes of family doctors. But, as I said, personal considerations are very different for family doctors. Some say that I plan to retire in five years' time, why should I now join the project to build a new health centre, which provides for the obligation to provide services for 20 years. I'm gonna finish my job in the old place. There are family doctors who say that the three of us or the four of us have built our rooms and are quite happy where we are. In general, I think that the quality of the primary service as a whole will improve, the availability nationwide will also improve. If you think about it in a slightly longer perspective, for example, if we now have a family doctor in some counties with a list of 450 people, and he is the family doctor who says that he is going to retire in five years' time, then the probability that we will say to this area, 500, 600, or even 800 people's, we will find a new family doctor is rather small. In general, there is little to go to small places. Since the list is small, the income is low. It is then possible to agree that the health centre in the county centre will also serve this list either on the spot, as in the case of a branch providing medical care or as in the case of a doctor on trips. So, in principle, we will also gradually improve access to regional services. In itself, this does not solve all the problems at first level. The main problem is staff. This was one of my most negative surprises in this job, that we actually put a lot of emphasis on the primary level and say that this is the priority direction, this is very right, I completely agree with that, but if we see that the average age of family doctors is 55, if we see that the residency places are underfilled, then it is clear that this is definitely a place of thinking in a long perspective. Something has already been done; we have actually preferred the primary level in terms of funding. If you look at the budget of the Health Insurance Fund in recent years, so-called general figures, how much it has grown and how much the funding for general medical care has increased, we will see that we have put more into the first level. We want to pilot. We have discussed with the family doctors' association the so-called family doctors' incubation program, which would allow the resident studying as a family doctor to conduct a residency at the place where he or she would subsequently take over the list. The current system is very inflexible: the family doctor who has a list is the owner of this list as long as he or she wishes. He will then hand over the list to the Health Board and the Health Board will announce a competition in which all family doctors who want to have this place can apply. In this way, it is very difficult to make a long-term plan. For example, we have a medical student today who thinks he could specialize in family medicine. He goes to a family doctor's residency, goes through it with some general doctor's assistant, but he doesn't know if he can continue to work there or go to another part of Estonia. I think it might be possible to plan a career ladder much more. And that's what we're going to be piloting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U68	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Did I understand correctly from your previous answer that the principles of funding health centres, the principles of organisation and this whole model have been finalised? It was said once that it would be developed by the end of 2016 and now I heard from the previous answer that it was already there. Secondly, are there any very critical areas in Estonia where the Ministry should do something else to help develop these health centres? Well, for example, if there's a frame problem or something. And does the Ministry also have a backup plan for the priority development of certain areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U70	Thank you. Firstly, there really is a model for financing health centres. This is a separate line in the health care list, if I am not mistaken, from 1 July last year. Now, is this the end of the line, is it final, I can't tell you that. When these health centres come, there is certainly still a need to discuss this issue and, of course, if there are any bottlenecks, they must be removed. The thing that doesn't exist yet, but what's at work, is the legal model of health centres. We have had a round of coordination, one of the plans to develop, we follow good legislative practice, which is very important, as the Free Party always stresses, and within this framework we have discussed different models. Decisions have not yet been made, but basically, in my opinion, the keyword for this model is flexibility. The question is, for example, that if three family doctors, all of whom are companies, set up a health centre, whether they should all form a single company or if three companies come together and have some kind of cooperation agreement. And if the applicant is, for example, a local authority, should the local authority also be a party to this company? Can he be, or can he not be? How, then, is money and various obligations, for example, arising from the responsibility for euro instruments? If the service is no longer provided, who is the subject of the return request? These topics will be discussed. Personally, I think that more flexibility could be allowed here. You don't have to spell out exactly which model you need to have. I think there could be a variety of possibilities. After all, the aim is for people to receive medical care in the best possible way. The criticisms that come from family doctors' associations are justified. I think that we should first have agreed on this model of performance, on the legal side of the matter, and on the financing model as well. Only then would it have made sense to start building. I arrived at the Ministry in September 2015 and then the regulation had already been approved, but there was nothing yet to be heard about the financing and functioning model. Is this the most reasonable way to do this? I would have preferred the other way around, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U71	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about Võru. As far as I know, Võru's big hospital has plenty of rooms available, just like you said about Viljandi. And there's another building, a proper health centre. What are the important reasons why Võru has to build a separate primary health centre in addition to these buildings?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U73	I'm glad you asked, because I didn't answer one question, Krista Aru. We are talking about different regions, and we certainly want to have this regulation as well, so that every county centre has a health centre. As of today, there are three county centres where it will not come as a result of the first round: Võru, Jõgeva and Kärdla. Kärdla applied, but there was a legal change with the Kärdla hospital: this hospital is now networked with the North Estonian Regional Hospital. Now the North Estonian Regional Hospital has confirmed that this application will come in the second round. Kärdla will be covered. Jõgeva Hospital is a state hospital just like Viljandi Hospital, and we believe that Jõgeva Hospital will make this request. Võru is one of those county centres that did not submit this application in time in the first round. You probably know the local conditions better. I've been told there was a debate about exactly where it was supposed to be. Some council members must have thought that in one place, others in another place. What exactly is behind it, I cannot comment, but the Mayor of Võru Anti Allas has assured me that Võru will participate in the second round of applications. If the application is instigated and I believe that it is in the second round of application, Võru will receive funding. The county centres are specifically designated as the places where the primary health centre should be. Whether to build a health centre near an existing hospital, out of the city with beautiful nature or in the city, this is the choice of the applicant. So, whoever makes this application from Võru is a family doctor, it's a local authority, it's a hospital, they decide where to open a reasonable health centre. In a situation where the hospital is out of town, there are pros and cons to both solutions. One argument says that family doctors should be in the city and serve people as close to their home as possible and in such a way that they do not have to drive. The second argument states that the hospital's centre is somewhat more reasonable because it is more accessible to specialised doctors and easier to communicate with family doctors. But these are local decisions. The state does not prescribe how to apply this health model on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U74	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The most valuable capital in Estonia is undoubtedly the people of Estonia. Every person in Estonia deserves to be given attention, and he can be sure that if he or she needs help, he or she has poor health, he or she will be guaranteed medical services, whether at first level or specialised medical care. It is a pleasure to note that sometimes Estonians can also be thrifty. With the EUR 86 million proposed, we were able to build 56 centres instead of 35 health centres on the basis of the first round of applications. Excellent! But we do know that these requests were made at a time when the construction market was relatively favourable. It is therefore understandable that the rest of the money must be used in a very purposeful and very sensible way. In the first call for applications, family doctors were concerned about their ability to compete with hospitals when submitting applications. In particular, in order to submit an application, both 25% of the own contribution and the ability to prepare and subsequently manage an appropriate application need to be carried out. As we have heard, 56 applications were submitted to the Ministry of Social Affairs and only six of their performers were family medicine centres and therefore companies. But that's it. A strong first level is really needed in order for us to provide security for our people. A strong primary level ensures the availability of medical personnel. We must have first-level specialists who are concentrated in very strong teams. They cooperate with each other, and the most important thing is that there are individual interest groups from different service providers who, for some reason, are concentrated on one surface. We were motivated by this question of concern now, and in the second round it is even more felt than in the first round, that, under the first level of strengthening measure, "first level services may not be very directly linked" are recognised as eligible. I am thinking, for example, of the buildings necessary for the provision of outpatient and inpatient specialist care and the equipment to be placed there. Our decisions must not only be fair, but they must also seem fair. The measure is a strengthening of the primary level, but it will inevitably be the impression that, in the shadow of strengthening the primary level, the money will also move to where it might not have to go. Much has been said today about the need to integrate services into the whole health and care system. I would like to highlight here the WHO report on the reform of primary health centres. It has been prepared by an external expert, Professor Jan De Maeseneer, who believes that the first priority must be to strengthen the primary level by investing in it, and only after that can integrated models be considered. I think this is a very clear message. A few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U76	You can do that. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U77	Are we ready to test a new, integrated model in a situation where we have three county centres without a health centre: as we have just heard, Kärdla, Jõgeva and Viljandi? We still have a number of so-called attraction centres where no health centre is planned. We want them to submit their applications in the second round. At the same time, the Minister said that the second round of applications would also give money to those health centres that already received money in the first round, but they would not be able to build them up at current prices. Is it really justified and reasonable to direct this EUR 16 million development project, the viability of which we are not yet quite sure, and what, as I have read to you, specialists do not want to do until the first level is properly built. So I suggest the makers think this through again. As I said, this is not about the Viljandi hospital specifically, but about where we take the money to take Viljandi's pilot project to life. Is this where it's planned today the right place? Is it right to channel money into this new pilot project? Perhaps, however, it would be more appropriate to use this money to strengthen the primary health centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U78	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U79	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Dear Minister for Health and Labour, The situation of the Viljandi hospital building today is that in 3 to 4 years, such a building will no longer be able to work as a hospital unless something is done, unless very large investments are made. Options have been analysed, which solution is best: either a new modern hospital or the reconstruction of an old hospital. It's been analyzed to take down a few floors, and then fix the building. As a result of all these analyses, it was found that it was best to build a new hospital building in Viljandi. If nothing is done, one of the county's largest employers will close the doors and the people living in Viljandi County will be the closest hospital to Tartu, where the same surgery and medical procedures will take place today in Viljandi. Yes, you can buy a couple of helicopters and drive people to Tartu in Viljandi, but is that the most appropriate thing? A new hospital with a health centre, with proper medical equipment, offers the hope that many young doctors will decide to come to Viljandi to work, that some young families will live in Viljandi, knowing that it is possible to wait in Viljandi for the birth of the child and to deliver it in a local hospital, that people in Viljandi will receive high-quality medical care. It gives hope that you can live and receive medical care elsewhere, not only in Tartu and Tallinn. The new model of piloting the integration of primary health care, where health and social services are better connected, should also provide clear evidence that money is used more effectively in this way and that there is less duplication both in research and in people's visits to different doctors. Both the city of Viljandi and the other municipalities of the county, Viljandi Hospital and the county's family doctors are ready to cooperate. 14 family doctors expressed their willingness to use medical devices effectively in their negotiations with the hospital and to show that integration would save money. But more importantly, patients should be provided with faster and better quality medical services. Today, however, we are talking about Viljandi and I can say that we are probably not so rich that various studies are being carried out several times that the patient is being run. If the family doctors have expressed their willingness, as well as the municipality and Viljandi Hospital, why not pilot it, try it. As a result, we may be able to stop simply squeezing money into certain areas and choose more effective options. The Viljandi look forward to this decision. Viljandi Hospital and Viljandi family doctors are ready for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U80	Minister Ossinovski expressed his willingness to make a final statement. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U81	Thank you! Just a little line to Monika Haukanõmme's speech to reconfirm. The first priority of the second round is also the first level. These regional attraction centres, which were not covered in the first round, are a priority in the second round, as are those projects that have received funding in the first round, which need additional financial coverage due to the increase in construction prices. If resources are left over in the second round, Viljandi Hospital will be able to apply for additional money to build this health centre to test the new model. If the first level is so powerful that this money will be used for all projects, Viljandi Hospital will not receive this money. That's it. These 16 million, of which we are talking about, are maximum support after first-level priorities are covered. The first level will continue to be a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U82	Thank you very much to the Minister. I will close the debate on Question No 413.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U83	Today's third item: Enquiry No 418 from Urmas Kruuse, Laine Randjärve, Anne Sulling, Heidy Purga, Yoko Alenderi, Meelis Mälberg, Urve Tiidus, Terje Trei, Toomas Kivimägi and Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, members of the Riigikogu. Urmas Kruus, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Honourable colleagues who are still in the Chamber! The reason for this inquiry was the joint conversion of organic farmers on 19 February. Joint return is a matter of concern as regards support for organic farmers. On the one hand, the state has made it one of the priorities and would like to see more organic farming in Estonia, as well as creating certain legitimate expectations. Thus, in the view of organic farmers, the reduction in the aid granted to them is contrary to the principle of legitimate expectations and to the general objective of the organic support measure. It is particularly strange that about a year ago the government announced its support for the proposal to launch a comprehensive programme for the organic economy and that the Ministry of Rural Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment, must find funding opportunities and a form of cooperation for this programme by 1 May 2018. We know that organic farming is not and cannot be as effective from its own production as so-called more intensive farming and agriculture. But I think that organic farming plays an important role not only in the way we cover our food table, but also in the way we view our environment, the continuity and sustainability of ecologicality. Therefore, the representatives of the Reform Party asked the Minister questions. I hope the Minister will read these questions in this Chamber and answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U85	I will give the floor to Mr Tammele, Minister for Rural Affairs, in order to answer the questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U86	Thank you, manager. Thank you, good heirs! Thank you, Members of the Riigikogu, who have listened to this question! The first question: 'The three ministries had to find the funding possibilities and form of cooperation for the organic programme by 01 May 2017. What are the funding opportunities found in cooperation? 'The Ministry of Rural Affairs implements the integrated organic economy programme in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It was agreed between the three ministries that the programme would become a form of cooperation by the council. As members of the Advisory Board, the ministries submitted Vice-Chancellors in the respective fields. In addition, each Ministry appointed three associated organisations as members of the Board of Governors of this programme. Sector-specific panels were also set up. The financing needs of the programme are divided into two categories: general expenditure on programme management and coordination, and investments necessary for the development of the sector, which are to be made by the actors in the sector themselves. There are already sufficient support measures available for investments. Due to the limited budget of the agencies, it has not been possible to set up a separate programme team so far. A further request for financing the team in 2018 was submitted during the preparation of the National Budget Strategy (RES), which was not approved. By 2019, the Ministry of Rural Affairs will submit an additional application in the framework of the Estonian Action Plan for the Promotion of Export in the Food Sector. According to the decision of the Government's Committee on Economic Development of 21 February 2018, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also have to submit additional requests for their activities in the field in the preparation of the state budget strategy. Question 2: 'What have been the unit rates of support for organic farming in the years 2015 to 2018? 'The measure for organic farming in the rural development plan is divided into two sub-measures: the conversion to organic farming and the continuation of organic farming. The conversion sub-measure for organic farming is intended for producers starting organic production and the level of support they receive is 10% higher in the first two years of the commitment than in the support for the continuation of organic farming. On the basis of applications submitted in 2015, the overall amount of support for organic farming was EUR 13,1 million for 2016 by the PRIA. 1432 companies, almost 90% of all organic businesses, applied for aid for nearly 129000 hectares. The unit aid rates were not reduced and, for example, the continuation of organic farming aid for cereals per hectare was paid at EUR 125. On the basis of the applications submitted in 2016, the PRIA allocated a total of EUR 14.1 million for organic farming in 2017. The aid was granted to 1,516 companies, which are 86% of all organic farms, for nearly 141000 hectares. As the budget did not provide enough money, PRIA reduced the unit rates of support for maintaining organic farming by 3.6%. I would remind you that this was in 2016 when there was a different minister in office. As an example, for this hectare, the aid for maintaining organic farming was paid EUR 120 and 49 cents. In 2018, the total amount of support for organic farming was EUR 15.3 million for applications submitted by the PRIA in 2017. The aid was granted to 1670 companies, which are 88% of all organic farms, for just over 163000 hectares. In 2018, the PRIA reduced the unit rates of support for continuation of organic farming applied for in 2017 as well as the unit rates of support for conversion to organic farming by nearly 14%. The aid per hectare of cereals was EUR 107,39 for those who would continue organic farming. Question 3: 'Why has there been a drop in unit rates for organic payments? ' The rural development plan measure 11, i.e. organic farming budget for the entire programming period, initially amounted to EUR 77.7 million. A further EUR 4.88 million has been added to the budget. The target level of the measure agreed during the discussion of the development plan in 2013 was 133000 hectares of eligible area for 1600 applicants. The budget allocated is therefore intended to cover payments for organic farming for 133000 hectares. Already then, the question on the table was that organic farming is expected to continue to expand and therefore new commitments should be limited in order to ensure the payment of the permitted aid rates, or that the addition of new organic production areas would inevitably lead to the need to reduce the aid rates proportionally. Organic organisations were opposed to restrictions at the time and were aware of possible reductions in aid rates. The target level of the measure was already exceeded in 2016, when aid was claimed for nearly 141000 hectares. In 2017, the organic sector continued to develop rapidly. As of 31 December 2017, 1888 organic producers had been registered in the organic register, with a total of around 200000 hectares of organic agricultural land. Thus, we have reached a situation where more than 20% of Estonia's agricultural area is organic. The number of grant applicants and the land for which the aid was applied for also increased significantly in 2017. The aid was granted to 1670 enterprises for just over 163000 hectares. If there is more money in the budget than in the budget, the unit rates of support will be reduced, which is a provision included in all RDP area and animal support regulations. It is very important to remember that this applies not only to this grant, but to all grant rates. For the first time in 2017, the PRIA reduced the unit rates of support for the continuation of organic farming applied for in 2016. According to the calculation by the PRIA, the budget deficit was EUR 3,7 million after the examination of the applications for 2017 and they should have reduced the unit rates for the conversion to organic farming by 14% this year and the unit rates for the continuation of organic farming by 32%. Following consultations with representative farmers' organisations, the Ministry of Rural Affairs decided to use the surplus of the green economy measure of the development plan, amounting to EUR 2 million, to partially cover the deficit. However, as EUR 1.7 million was missing, a reduction in unit rates was still necessary. PRIA reduced the unit rates of support for continuation of organic farming applied for in 2017 and the unit rates of support for conversion to organic farming by around 14% in 2018. Question 4: 'Is the decrease in unit rates due to a reassessment of priorities? ' Priorities have not been re-evaluated, rather additional resources have been found for organic farming. The reduction in the unit rates is due to the budget deficit in the support for organic farming. The rapid development of organic farming will inevitably lead to a situation where, due to limited budgetary resources, the possibility of reducing subsidies has to be taken into account. The Ministry of Rural Affairs will meet with interested parties in March, discuss with them the needs of organic farming and the possibilities of financing and, if necessary, decide on new commitments or rates of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U87	The first question is put to the Minister by Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Your answers showed a clear trend that the area under organic farming in Estonia is increasing. I think it was the last number 200,000 hectares. Could you please predict what awaits us? Will more or less land, depending on or whatever the amount of these payments, be subject to organic farming in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U89	Thank you for your question. This is the subject of the debate, where we are trying to find out, together with the sector, whether farmers who continue to move to the organic sector are being shut down, found additional money for it, or based on the same principle as many other measures, that if the number of units is growing, the price will decrease. So far, there was a principle in the sector that we do not do restrictions, that anyone could come up with them. In 2014, an amount of EUR 83 million per 133000 hectares was agreed, but by the end of the previous year, there were already 200000 hectares under organic farming. However, the amount has not changed since all amounts are agreed for a fixed period. And now the question is how the sectors agree on whether they stick to the view that we are allowing more producers to enter the organic sector. We are the third largest organic area in the European Union. The first is Luxembourg and the second is Austria. We have essentially the same situation with Austria. So we are the third, very high ground in Europe. This is the place we are trying to discuss together with the sector in early March, so we should be clear. I have been to the meetings last Friday, I met organic farming companies in Luunja, in Tartu County, and the position has been that the companies know that they have to take into account the reduction in the rates of payments, which is now 14%. They say we can't let anyone else in here because otherwise the sector will not be able to fulfil its previous obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U90	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U91	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! What you're saying is that it's a terrible mess, a terrible problem that the surface area of organic fields in Estonia is growing. When we were talking about pig farming recently, resources were found to support this very quickly. The government coalition agreement states very boldly that the whole organic economy programme will be implemented, while we hear here that perhaps the coming of organic producers should be limited. It's like there's a contradiction in what you're saying. What's it coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U92	Thank you. There is no contradiction here, fortunately it is possible to read after the verbatim. I have never been concerned in any of the speeches that the organic sector is expanding. If the organic sector itself agrees that the unit rate of these grants will decrease, then there will be more. This principle cannot be changed. And since you have already brought out the rearing of pigs, I say that this year there will also be a reduction in breeding aid, because pigs have come into the sector. There was no question raised that the state should put more money. I will read it out once again: 'If there is more money in the budget than in the budget, the unit rates of the aid will be reduced,' this is a provision included in all the RDP area and animal support regulations. ' This principle applies to all sectors, not so that we look at one sector in some way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U93	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, look at how anxious you are when you address this issue. On the contrary, I would be very pleased to know that the organic sector is growing to this extent. After all, we are all talking about the need for higher value added production, and this is obviously one way to produce more value added. For this reason, it is completely incomprehensible to me that EUR 1.7 million was missing to keep this unit rate of support at the same level, although hundreds of millions of euros each year come into the state budget. I wonder if this is not merely a word that organic farming and organic production are a government priority. I'd say it's the other way around. It seems to me that the priority is populist free public transport. Can it be concluded that organic producers' money has gone on free public transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U95	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, how is public transport linked to rural development policy measures? I have never heard such a question from a Member of Parliament. What is the link between the rural development plan and public transport? I mean, we could still find some connections. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Rahakott on üks.'???]] Wallet's not one. Perhaps your good colleague, Urmas Kruuse, will tell you what the European Union's common agricultural policy is and what measures and amounts for the rural development plan have been agreed upon. If you wanted to stand up very well for farmers, the Estonian state could have made an additional contribution of 25% to the rural development plan during this period, but somehow the Reform Party was against it, limited to co-financing of only 5%. Maybe you'll think about it. And maybe next spring, when you go to the elections, you will increase this country's participation, and this is an opportunity for every Member of Parliament. But if you're saying that nothing has been done, I'll give you specific examples. Last year, more organic farming was funded with 3.5 million and this year with 2 million, a total of 5.5 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U96	Let us continue the round of reflection and questions. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U97	Thank you. Honourable Minister! Can you tell me how much money was missing so that these subsidy rates would have remained at the same level?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U98	Thank you. 1.7 million this year, 1.7 million next year and 1.7 million in 2020. I can tell you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, too, that if I were a populist and wanted to end up in my ministerial office in such a way that they would receive this money, then it actually exists. A total of EUR 11 million and an additional EUR 5.5 million have been paid out. And if I paid out a further 1.7 million in both this and next year, the unit rate would fall by about 40% in 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U99	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question is this: how do we currently carry out the export of organic products and the informed design of Estonian brand in this area? In this regard, do we also have any purpose in terms of how much surface there could be under organic production? The lack of this support still seems to be a problem, I think you mentioned 200,000 hectares, which can no longer be kept, and that this enthusiasm will be set back.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U101	Thank you. The government's work programme is one thing that we are trying to move forward with. Our priority is to focus more on organic farming and on organic farming at all. We are talking not only about agriculture, but also about the organic forest, etc. They're working on it. But, as you know, money doesn't come into the state budget line by itself. First, the program and its objectives are set and then money is applied for. But no one will mind that we have organic land and that we are handling it mildly. Once again, we are in a strong third position in the European Union, over 20% of all arable land we have organic land.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U102	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll continue what Mr. Herkel started. Please tell us how much of Estonia's organic production goes for export and how much remains to be consumed by Estonians.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U104	Thank you. Unfortunately, the part that goes for export is relatively small. Just a few days ago, we received very positive news that the agricultural sector is on the rise, for example, the total value of the sector increased by over 300 million over a year. If I look at this document on the organic program, the goal is to have an export volume of 50 million. If we take this 20%, the whole area of organic land, and let's say the goal is to have an export volume of 50 million, let's everyone think about how he's going to explain it to himself. The total export volume of the agricultural sector is about 8 million, and I think it will reach about 9 million by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U105	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There has been quite a lot of criticism that irresponsible organic farmers do not use their land in a proper way and maybe they have been over-subsidised. Is there any way to control them more in the future, in other words to see that the sums that we are all talking about here are really being used in a meaningful way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U107	Thank you, dear questioner. A very correct question, which I also asked at the Ministry this morning when Chancellor and Deputy Chancellors were around the Minister's desk. Unfortunately, in many cases, it is not possible to assess this benefit and the revenue from the production sold. I want to get an analysis of how many of these 1888 beneficiaries actually sold their produce last year and to what extent they sold it. I imagine that taxpayers, whom you also represent in this House, will not be able to share money if it does not return to any good, no matter how good. In any case, it must be analysed. I have also been told by farmers to see how it is done. I say that this analysis is ahead of us, we want to get a picture of why, for example, aid applications per 17000 hectares were added to the sector last year. Did all the applicants suddenly become nature-friendly, or do they have another plan? I don't know how to answer you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U108	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Does the Ministry also have any separate programmes or measures to support all this export and marketing of organic production? As we know, it is very difficult and complicated for individual producers to enter foreign markets at all in Estonia. How has the Ministry regulated and supported this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U110	Thank you, dear questioner. You'll somehow be able to ask the kind of questions I like right now. I just came from the Ministry's Export Council, which met for the third time. We will be there setting out the potential countries to which we can export goods, not only organic production, but also other agricultural production. The biggest problem for me in agriculture today is that we export one third of our production as raw materials. It must still be a rich country that can act like this. After all, the basic money goes to other countries when we issue one third of the total production as raw materials. But we have formed an export council and we were together for the third time today. It is very representative: there are representatives of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the EAS. And I think we can agree on something there, assess these markets and opportunities. I also say, of course, that organic economy is a growing trend. It is clear that there is an increasing market for organic production in the European Union and in the world. It needs to be analysed. I know that there is no problem with certain products at all: it will be bought immediately. There is still some possibility that the so-called organic aid will be withdrawn, but in the end the production will still be sold as standard products. There's a lot of nuances out there, and that's what we need to analyze to figure out where we're finally going. There must also be a policy here to what percentage of the total surface we are moving and what that means. In any case, the organic economy is a growing trend and a growing market. Estonia has opportunities: we have enough land and resources to produce organic production. However, all producers must take into account the fact that both the number of hectares and the number of livestock units and the total amount of money have been agreed for a given period. They all know that. It cannot be argued that no one knows that if more producers or livestock units come, the amount will decrease. I don't know who this surprise is for, it's known to everyone, it's a fundamental principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U111	Thank you to the Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U112	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, At first glance, I'd like to ask if you're a minister or not. I need to hear from the ministers of this government a hundred times the expression that if you were in the government, nothing was done, but if we're in the government, we can't do it. It came out eloquently today. When you referred to unit rates and compared the 3.6% reduction to a 14% reduction, which is more than three or four times more, I had a question. When an honourable colleague asked about the pigs, you tried to ridicule it, but there was no question of raising the unit rate eight, nine or ten times. Nobody beeps, either, or they say it's a priority. At least that's how I understood the current government minister. Now, if the ambassadors in this Chamber are asking if organic farming is a priority, you are just as sure that it is, of course, only unit rates will be reduced. It actually shows that this government just doesn't have style. After all, this whole issue has to do with cooperation between several ministries, including the Ministry of the Environment. Multi-ministerial cooperation is by its very nature wider than mere production. Soft produce has many goals. Of course, it is not news to anyone that we are currently not getting as much produce from organic farming as we would hope and wish. But that does not mean that we should punish these efforts, we should work towards it. It is possible to allocate additional resources for the rural development plan and to find solutions to ensure that unit rates are maintained. I think that this is possible if there is to be more money there, especially in the light of the fact that the whole agricultural sector has been said with a loud voice that we are the government that is giving more money. Secondly, as a minister, you actually know that walking around the world is our clean natural environment, part of which is the same third place in organic farming in Europe, an important selling argument. As a result, I do not consider it very possible for us to tell organic farmers in this context that we are not going to let anyone else in: we do not have money and that is not our priority. In my opinion, this direction could be developed in parallel with the fact that there would also be production reaching a solvent customer, because its ecological role in order for our nature to be clean is extremely important. You drive to China or Vietnam, where I went as a minister, it has been noticed, and this is a matter that needs to be continued, no matter what area we are responsible for. As a result, I find it strange to hear personally that every step they say from this speaker is being tried to show that nothing has been done before us. I am sure that a large number of ministers in different fields have, over a long period of time, also contributed to organic farming, so that things are as they are now. If we look at the unit rates as a whole, the overall area payment will actually increase by its very nature, the overall area payment unit rate will increase. But today we are saying that the unit rate for organic farming is falling because we do not have enough money. If we look at dynamics and the entire funding period, then, good Minister, you have certainly seen the tables that good officials and colleagues have shown you: the unit rate is increasing, but the end result depends on how much agricultural or eligible land we have at the end of the period. And we have moved towards more use of fertile agricultural land, be it a million hectares, as has usually been said here, or 1.3 million if anyone wants it to be so much. In today's light, it is equally saddening that it is not taken into account and that there is literally a cacophony of messages. In that case, you could honestly admit and say we don't have any money. We don't have the money because our priority is different. Because you can't really say there's no money. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U113	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U114	We have heard right here how money is allocated and allocated to activities that seem to be a priority even if they raise questions about how transparent these allocations really are. So I agree with those farmers who say that organic farming is not a priority right now. If there is no more, it will suppress competition, which I do not think is very sensible. This means, in fact, that those companies wishing to deliver in this sector could easily get this opportunity and more money should be found. This 1.7 million, mentioned by the Honorable Minister, is a very small amount compared to the benefits of this image that we, as a country as a whole, want to say to the world in this sector. 1.7 million, I'd say, "Help! 'to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U115	Martin Repinski. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U116	Good President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I want to review the various aspects relating to this issue here. Firstly, why this area has grown so exponentially. There are many reasons, of course, but one important reason is that we have an obligation to maintain permanent grassland. And because of this obligation, we need to maintain to a certain extent permanent grasslands, not grow cereals, vegetables, etc. As Estonia has been very active in this respect, farmers have been very good, cultivated farmland and started growing more products, the European Union said at one point that you crossed the border, pull back and restore permanent grassland. One way is not to restore them, but to start growing organic cereals in the future, which is, of course, what grain farmers want. Many grain growers saw that the prices of organic production were quite good, and since this possibility exists, many did do so. I think it's very positive. Organic farming wins not only our agriculture and our economy as a whole, but also the environment and all our people. There is certainly a need to support it, and I do not think that there should be any restrictions there under any circumstances. Let us look to the future and think about it if, for example, our children ever decide that they want to deal with organic farming. So, are we gonna tell them that I'm sorry, but years ago, they locked it up, you can't deal with it anymore, just the old guys can, or that you can buy some companies as a whole, start making plans, or something like that? This must under no circumstances be allowed. That's one thing. The second thing is when we talk about commitments and why subsidies have to be paid at least at the same level. If we look more closely, many grants, many unit rates have really increased and are growing every year, as has already been said here today, including the same basic support as the UPT, and others related to it, such as greening support, etc. Most subsidies are growing. Indeed, in the case of organic support, it was agreed that sooner or later, if a certain limit is exceeded, the unit rate of the aid would be reduced. I think it was the wrong agreement right from the start and it must not be stuck in this agreement, but it needs to be changed. Let us also see that farmers take on commitments and these commitments are not small, are constantly subject to checks and are being reviewed. It's not like you're just writing somewhere on paper that you're meeting the requirements, but you're not. Everything is controlled very strictly and closely. Prices are rising and the value of money is falling. If there is a five-year commitment, the value of money will fall by 101⁄2 per cent in five years, while all liabilities will apply. I can't say next year, when I get a check, listen, I'm sorry, I couldn't meet the requirements because I was paid less support. I can't tell the bank that, hey, I'm not paying you or paying 15% less this year because the subsidies were cut. This is actually a very big problem: if we add money to the impairment, figuratively speaking to this 15%, another 14%, it is already 30%, which is almost a third. The subsidies will be reduced by a third, which is certainly not a good sign for agriculture. This is not a good sign for the economy or for exports, as organic production is actually a very strong export product and has a great deal of potential. At the same time, when I talk like this, some people tell me why organic farming should be supported at all, if it is a strong export product and good business. Why do you even have to pay benefits? The reason is very simple: if we compare ourselves with other countries, there are often higher levels of organic subsidies than we do, and our producers must compete with them. We have a common market, as in many other areas, but, especially in the case of organic production, the direction towards exports is taken. Speaking of what can be done, maybe the Ministry of Rural Affairs doesn't have the money to put in it right now. The question is that the cost of not reducing this aid would be 1.7 million this year, perhaps more next year. I'm gonna add that lockdown doesn't really save this system either. For example, if I have 1 000 hectares of pasture or I make silo grass there, but tomorrow I start growing cereals, the unit rate of aid will increase almost four times already. Even if we set a limit, it can still happen that the total need is increasing. So I very much hope and believe that the government will take the necessary steps to add money from the state budget. This, of course, must be decided by the government itself whether the source is the reserve fund or something else. It seems to me that many members of the government, many coalition partners, understand that this really is a priority. I believe and hope that there will be more this year, not to mention the next few years, because we must not give the wrong signal. We need to show our good organic producers that they are necessary as soon as possible. We must say that this remains a priority, we want to support them and we want the sector to grow. We want exports to develop, also through organic producers and organic products. Changing the current decision would indeed also be a sign for processors that organic exports are prospective, that the state supports and contributes to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U117	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U118	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! A great deal has been heard lately, or at least my ears have heard different notions. They talk about Organic Estonia, which could be the trademark of the whole of Estonia. It is said that Estonia is an eco-state as a firm approach. It is said that half of Estonia's territory is under forest, which has been maintained ecologically or mildly, there are no fertilisers or poisons put in it, so that it can be a great trademark of our country as a whole. We could even be the first in the world to declare ourselves at least 50% a mild country. So far, only one Indian state has managed to do so. It is bigger than Estonia, but it has managed to do so. Everyone has such wonderful priorities. In the same way, the current government has brought a comprehensive programme of the organic economy into its coalition agreement. This means that we are not only talking about organic farming or organic farming, but we are talking much more widely. We are also talking about the impact on 'neighbours', if there is forest or something else being grown there, about adding value to the products or plants that are produced or grown here, and about exports. Perhaps we are talking about a comprehensive approach that was put into the coalition agreement. But as the Minister has said, all kinds of working groups have been formed again, but unfortunately, they have not gone any further. As we all know, the appointment of working groups is, in a sense, also a method of getting the problem off the table. I will now return to the organic payments. There's an important nuance that the minister didn't talk about. In particular, applications for these grants are already made in May of the previous year and take into account the total amount of grants that will then be paid in the following year. Perhaps the basis is the area that emerges from these applications. However, what happened now was that the information that will be paid came out only at the beginning of February, at the very last and the last second. All organic producers who had applied for support simply had to react in the last second. And the surprise, the fall was bigger than they expected. As a result of the great scare, organic producers began to react and this 30% fall was quickly reduced to 17%. However, a small change was made and found as a matter of urgency not to be found, but rather to be re-arranged from the green production line. And it was done. I'll ask for more time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U119	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U120	The way this thing is done isn't quite right. This should have been discussed with farmers at length, with legitimate expectations. It is particularly alarming that this existing number of hectares in the rural development plan will become a 'closed club' where no one will ever get in. This is actually what we do for our excellent opportunity to expand organic production, gain a very important victory over organic production and our pure nature and be among the so-called primary players in Europe, as Denmark is, for example, the case. We know very well the movement of Organic Denmark. And while Denmark was holding the Presidency, every move they made was organic, unlike Estonia. There is a request to the Minister that, instead of nice words, it should actually be shown that the whole organic economy is a government priority. The best way to show this is also to find more money for organic producers in no other sector in the agricultural sector is to reduce support to such a large extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U121	The Minister shall make use of the opportunity to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U122	I guess repeating is the mother of wisdom. I will read it to you once again, for the third time: if there is more money for aid applications than in the budget, the unit rates of support will be reduced, this is a provision included in all the RDP area and animal support regulations. All farmers are aware of this. And if anyone now believes that this one MAK measure should receive a preference over other MAK measures, I do not know whether the agricultural sector and its representatives agree with this. I mean, you could discuss that. Mr Kruuse asked what the priorities of this government were and said that the government did not support the organic sector. Let me brief you on the priorities. This same organic sector will receive an additional EUR 11 million. 11 million euros! Is that a small amount? I wouldn't say it's a small amount. 11 million will be found with more money, so that's for each person to judge. I would say that this is quite a large amount, unlike other sectors, where the unit rate is decreasing, in case something is added to it. In addition, I say that the organic sector will receive additional support from the increase in direct payments of EUR 10 million this year and the payment of transitional support, which is a government priority, of EUR 18,4 million (EUR 19,9 million was paid last year). The organic sector will also be a part of this. And now I'm going to talk a little bit about the priorities of the previous government. During the previous government, the number of pigs fell by more than 100000 and the number of dairy cows by more than 12,000 livestock units. The government looked at it numbly by the side. He missed the opportunities that existed in the government did not pay the transitional allowance, or top-up, for nearly EUR 70 million. But I can tell you this: the fact that the current government finally started to pay transitional support turned up last year all production figures in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U123	Normally, we will conclude with the Minister's address, but since there was talk of Urmas Kruus both in name and in principle, please reply! [[???Kommentaarid saalist: 'Ei olnud. Vaatame stenogrammist järele.'???]] I thought it was, but maybe it was the last time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U124	Thank you. Dear Minister, Once again, I ask you to consider that the government must take responsibility and that the facts must be dealt with correctly. You call the previous government a government that does nothing, and you think that your transitional support increased farmers' income. But you have to admit that, as an educated person, you should understand that if the price of milk was 18 during that government and is now 30 cents a kilo, then 1 cent additional transitional support will not provide farmers with the income needed to survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U125	In case the minister did not go straight to the screen, we representatives of the Central Party, who are still in the Chamber, will tell him the point. I'm gonna stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U126	And now I'm gonna hit it with a hammer that gives you the chance to speak in a free microphone. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U127	Can we take extra time just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U128	You can, but only in the round of negotiations. Right now, you have five minutes, which has been ten seconds. I'd be happy to give you ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U129	Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the day, I'm gonna use the free microphone to talk about depression. As of today, the campaign "Black Snow', organised by the non-profit organisation dealing with mental health issues and dedicated to awareness of depression, began. Its aim is to make society more aware of the impact of depression on the lives of individuals as well as on society at large. According to the World Health Organisation, there are 75667 people with a diagnosis of depression in Estonia. In this area, we are undoubtedly at the top of Europe. Studies also say that some 50,000 people who are depressed have not received sufficient support. Why is it that if we break the arm, we trust the hand-fixing specialist and hold our hand until it's healed? But if our spirit breaks, why do we often leave ourselves and our loved ones alone? This is because 62% of Estonians do not want other people to know about their mental health problems. As much as 35% of us agree that one of the main causes of mental disorders is the lack of self - discipline and will. Thus, many of the problems begin with the fact that we do not dare to admit them and therefore ask for help. The nonprofit association The main thing has been collecting stories from people with depression. And here's the story of the depression of a 25-year-old young woman, aside from statistics. 'I'm probably listening to this group of people who don't go to the doctor and are convinced that I'm not depressed because I'm not depressed yet. At one point, though, when one of my moods had lasted six months, I became terrified. However, I did not address any doctors, for speaking to loved ones I was assured that you would pass, this is just a difficult time. During this so-called difficult time, my companion helped me to get out of bed on a daily basis on a few days, simply by dragging me out of bed on a purely physical basis. I tried to be unnoticed and silent, not to make his life harder and to be a burden to him. I pressed down my tears until night came and my companion slept so that the tears could be turned open quietly and pressed by the pillows. To some extent, it helped and made it easier to live. However, I was faced with the question of what to do then, in those moments when others see your emotions and get a pat on your shoulder with the words, "Don't worry, you just need a break." I got engaged. A month after I went through my hole again and the fiancée tried to support me, she broke down too. Seeing and experiencing all of this tore me apart. I felt like I didn't want to have a marriage where neither of the partners could handle themselves. I felt like I couldn't control myself anymore. I started keeping a diary. I wrote down everything that was going on in my head as honestly as I could. I'm ugly. I'm clumsy and I'm bad. I'm not achieving anything. Why should I even make an effort? After a while, I reread my writings to understand what was happening in my mind on specific days, where I was entangled with my thoughts. However, a very positive experience recently came when I met a longtime friend and found ourselves talking about depression and admitting to each other the state we were in. A friend is in therapy, and she has become an excellent help, which she also shares with me. We keep a common diary online to keep an eye on each other's activities and boost motivation. A friend asked me why I hadn't talked about my situation. I had to admit that it was embarrassing I thought no one would believe. It was easier to keep it to yourself, write it in a diary and advise yourself. " It was a vital example of statistics aside. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remind ourselves that depression is a serious disease that can also be fatal. Every year, we lose nearly 200 people among us because of suicide. By comparison, this is as much as the order of magnitude when people die a year as a result of road accidents, alcohol poisoning and fires. Studies say that one suicide has a profound impact on an average of 60 people. These are people who are next to us every day. Therefore, good listeners, let us see ourselves, our loved ones and fellow road users, and let us take our spiritual health as seriously as physically, at both personal and national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-05_U130	No more calls, I'll close the free microphone. We'll see you tomorrow in this very hall at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 18.10.
