ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session of the 7th working week. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. I don't see that wish. Participation check, please! 80 MPs will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the procedure for the debate on today's first item. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Bureau, on the proposal of the Social Affairs Committee, determined the important state question 'How to cope with the creation of care insurance as an elderly person? ' discuss next time. A presentation by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Küti, lasting up to 10 minutes, then there are questions and answers that will last up to 10 minutes. A representative of the "Creation of Care Insurance," a German report by Kai of Doctor and Geriatric Associated, which lasts up to 20 minutes, questions and answers will last up to 30 minutes. Presentation by Rait Kuuse, Deputy Chancellor of Social Affairs of the Ministry of Social Affairs, lasting up to 20 minutes, and questions and answers, lasting up to 20 minutes. Presentation by Maarika Kurrikoff, Head of Tartu City Government Welfare Services, which lasts up to 20 minutes, questions and answers last up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit a total of up to two questions to the rapporteurs, i.e. a choice must be made here. Then there are negotiations, speeches can be made by members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. In other words, everyone has a chance. At the request of the Social Committee, however, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. A member of the Government of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice also, as usual, have the right to speak. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Furthermore, the Committee on Social Affairs proposes to extend the session until 14 p.m. if necessary. But we'll deal with that when the time comes. So, let's get started. The crucial national question of 'How to cope with the creation of care insurance as an elderly person'? ' debate. For a presentation, please address the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee of Helmen Küti. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U3	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Honourable waitresses! All the guests here and the people behind the blue screens who are watching today's debate. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] As Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I am delighted to introduce the debate and give an overview of how we have reached the debate on today and on a very important national issue. The Estonian Cooperation Assembly has the 'Pension 2050' programme, within which it was decided to launch a new age collection. In March 2017, the Riigikogu of New Age invited people to offer ideas on how people's old age could be happier and better insured. Within a month, some 80 ideas gathered on four topics. Impact assessments were prepared for each design group and analysed whether these ideas are applicable in Estonia and what their negative and positive effects could be. Since many ideas were not implemented nationally or had already been resolved, 30 ideas reached the public debate and 26 ideas were the ones for which signatures were collected. Any ideas that have received a thousand signatures will be submitted to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U4	Honourable waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, the waitress has 20 minutes or less. Let's listen to him carefully! Right now, you can hear the hall like a stale sea. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U5	Thank you. The idea of care insurance received 1063 signatures and was submitted to the Riigikogu on 4 September last year. The Board of the Riigikogu took the collective address 'Creation of Maintenance Insurance' to the proceedings on 12 September and sent it to the Social Affairs Committee. At the meeting of the Commission on 12 October, the representative of the respondents, doctor, assistant professor of geriatrics Kai Saks, Head of the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Häli Tarum, Head of the Social Security Department Katre Pall, Head of the Health and Communication Department of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Katrin Romanenkov, Head of the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Risto Kaarna and Head of the Insurance Policy Department Siiri Tõniste, representatives of the Association of Insurance Companies Caterina Lepvalts (ERGO Insurance) and Raili Reial (SEB Insurance), Representative of the Task Force on Reducing Maintenance Burden, Rauno Mäekivi, Representative of the Estonian Social Work Association Jaanika Luus, representatives of the Estonian Ownership Association Helle Lepik and Ivar Paimre, and representative of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly Liisi Uder. Visitors introduced the idea of providing care insurance. At its meeting on 18 December, the Commission examined the work of the Task Force on Reducing the Maintenance Burden and listened to Riina Sikkut, adviser to the State Chancellery Strategy Office. On 9 January 2018, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose, on the basis of a collective referral, a debate on a key national issue in plenary. On 6 and 13 February, the Commission continued to prepare for the debate on a key national issue. The Commission decided to extend the debate on a key national issue to the issue of dealing with older people. Today, good colleagues, you have the opportunity to listen to the best experts in your field, to participate in a parliamentary debate, to think along, and to seek and find solutions. Presentations are made by the representative of the collective address, doctor, assistant professor of geriatrics Kai Saks, Deputy Chancellor of Social Affairs Rait Kuuse and Head of Welfare Services of Tartu City Government Maarika Kurrikoff. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs will present an overview of the activities of the maintenance task force and the analysis of the World Bank, the activities and plans of the Ministry of Social Affairs in these matters and the maintenance load at all. Maarika Kurrikoff, Head of the Welfare Service of Tartu City Government, gives an overview of the opportunities of local government to support elderly and family carers who need help. I would very much like to thank the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, the representative of the speakers, Dr Kai German, all those who have attended five meetings of the Social Affairs Committee, and the members of the Social Affairs Committee, who unanimously, cross-partyly decided to bring this important subject to a parliamentary hearing in front of you today. I would like to ask everyone an interesting hearing and I would like to take this opportunity to ask questions to the main rapporteurs. I am quite convinced that this issue will not go away. In the next presentation of the rapporteurs, we will hear both the reality of the situation and the possibilities of resolving it. If we are not looking for solutions today, in a few years it will be too late to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U6	Thanks to the waitress! Your proposal was supported, questions will be asked to others. The next waitress is the representative of the collective appeal 'Creating Care Insurance', a doctor, assistant professor of geriatrics Kai Saks. His report is 20 minutes long, with up to 30 minutes for questions and answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U7	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Happy people, all interested in the subject! I work in two institutions, the University of Tartu and the University of Tartu Hospital, but today I speak most of the thoughts that we have discussed in a professional association, the Estonian Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics, which just turned 20 years old. I also want to say that I am not talking about pensions today, this is a subject that has been discussed a lot, I am talking about something else. Speaking of what these words mean by 'gerontology' and 'geriatria', the gerontology that deals with normal human aging, I hope to arrive at the end of a real presentation, but I will start with geriatrics that deal with the health and coping problems of older people and how to deal with them. I'll start with the money. Here you have one graph of these graphs in your hands too, you should have on the table, where you can see the share of public money in OECD countries, 30 countries are listed here, long-term care and care services are needed. The red column shows the average of these countries, and with the blue arrow, the place where Estonia is marked is marked. The annual number is 2014. You will see that in Estonia public money goes into this area seven times less. You can find other tables, the task force has also used another summary, these data show that the money is three times less, and the data from many tables are between these two. So three to seven times smaller are Estonia's provision for welfare. 100% of our GDP as a whole, the distribution of the percentage that goes from there, you, the good members of the Riigikogu, make top politicians. That is why I am about to say here: you have the keys to the solution. Our specialists and the Ministry of Social Affairs can do a lot of very good development projects, but if they don't get the money, they stop. If we have presented different ideas and wanted to develop services, we have received a response within 20 years that the Estonian state is not rich enough to do so. I say that we no longer want to hear such an answer; the Estonian state is rich enough. A few figures. Estonia's GDP is 70.5% of the OECD average, while 74% of the European Union average, or three-quarters, is taken into account in absolute terms. Let's look at health services. We know that the health service fighters are saying that we have little money on it. The health sector receives three quarters of the average funding from OECD countries. Let's see how much goes to care, including long-term healthcare: 14% according to the first table I showed, and a maximum of 38%. If it's not a political decision, what is it? Three quarters would be possible, and I'm not talking about absolute values. I'll get some more numbers. I wrote a slightly more emotional article on the same subject in the last Sirbis, today I want to show more numbers, talk a little more rationally and give examples of studies that I have been involved in. In the European Union survey, we studied people with dementia and their family members and the care burden of family members. We also examined, among other things, how much resources it would use. I will start with the fact that it was very difficult for us to find people with dementia who were at home and who received some formal service. Most of these people are completely, one hundred percent to care for the family. We did it, though. For the few people who receive home service, you can see a column on this chart, which has arrows, it represents Estonia, it is financed 3 to 4 times less in absolute value, and the difference between institutional care is even greater. At the beginning of this year, I was approached by people who complained that the cost of the service in nursing homes had gone very high; they wondered if it was unreasonable. I said in return: yes, this is unreasonable compared to the possibility of paying our families, but this price is going to be even more expensive if we want to get a good service. Let's keep going. This was the price of services, which included the contribution of informal care. Let's see what components of the home care service are to wear informal care. Estonia is in the leftmost row on this graph. You will see that most of this money, which was a third of funding from other countries, actually comes at the expense of its own carers. So there is no substantial funding at the moment. There is no doubt that countries are different. I believe that the Dutch model, which is shown by the right column, is not exactly what Estonia would like to pursue, but the current proportion of Estonia is not dignified. The country seems pathetic to me when it finances its priorities at the expense of the most fragile people, those who actually need care to live. Once again, if you look at the range of problems faced by personal caretakers, of course, people in the task force are even better able to talk about it, you can bring some data from research. According to the same survey in the European Union where we participated, our home carers for people with dementia were considerably younger than others, of working age, with an average age of 57 years. A whole bunch of them had to stay home from work. They are the most employed compared to those in other countries. In home care, we had the greatest burden on our carer. Of course, these people were absolutely the least aware of the help and respect of both the community and the state. The study at EAKAS was very inclusive. People in the Tartu region we all involved, people receiving both health care and care services. I will give you only two examples. A person wants to grow old at home, I agree with that, a lot of people really do. If we now say that we have the means to do this, we are providing carer support, it has actually become apparent that those carers who lived at home and whose care was paid for had the worst emotional condition. You see, next door is home care, home care, day care, nursing home, nursing care, active care. People living at home with the help of informal care are most often saddened and depressed. Physical coping, or need for help in walking, is exactly the same. So we concluded: those whose loved ones receive carers' allowance and who live at home are actually the poorest in quality of life and coping. The need for care can occur at any age, more often for old people. Unfortunately, it does not ask about age; young people may also need care. There are also people who are born so special that they need care and help for the rest of their lives. This need may suddenly occur. A brain attack is a matter of minutes, and from now on, after active treatment, there is a question of what will happen now. We have received many of these requests for help in our association. But there are certainly many diseases, unfortunately, the cause of which we do not know and we also do not know how to prevent them: Alzheimer's disease, diabetes. There are many, many other diseases that may cause this need for help at some age. How many people are we talking about now? The number of people in need of care is about 5% of the total population, but from the age of 65, this requirement arises in 15 to 20% of the population in the course of their further lives. Is this just about these people? Absolutely not. Is there one family who lives well, whether children and grandchildren are well - off when their elderly are not well - cared for? I doubt it. However, it cannot be said that all old people need care. Here's a couple of pictures, but you could bring them to infinity. 104-year-old Pole who is the world champion of the 100-metre race in his age class. My favorite sport of table tennis and 100-year-old Australian. I'm trying to keep doing this, too, but I don't know if I'm gonna get this far. What are the odds now? I will give you an example of patients who have many in the hospital. Man falls. It usually happens at home, not on the street. It's slippery on the street, but more often it falls at home. He gets into a hospital where he or she is primarily treated for the injuries and illnesses he or she suffered due to a fall, whether it be a femoral neck fracture or whether it is an infection he or she has. He's getting pretty good rehab. Some recover nicely and then continue to live their lives. But not everyone's doing so well. What happens next? He can go home to his family when the family can support and help. However, if there is no family, he lives alone, then there is the possibility of receiving home care and other supportive services. You can go directly from active treatment to nursing care or after-care or nursing home. These are the opportunities that exist now. The reality is that in active care, the main task of our health and social workers is to get a person out of the active treatment bed quickly and quickly, wherever he can be sent, because the number of days is limited when the active treatment is paid for. You don't usually get to a nursing home. So these options are going to be pretty narrow. What will affect future decisions? Certainly, what a person wants and what his family wants, whether the family is capable of caring for him, whether the family has financial resources, whether they have time and skills to care for. Next, the availability of the necessary services in the region. This is where we come to the point that is very often behind this now: whether the family is able to pay for these services. A few more figures on what the prices of services are and how much a person has to pay. That is what decisions often depend on, and not always the most rational ones. The daily cost of a bed day for internal diseases without medicines and studies is 100 euros in the middle, a person costs 2.50 euros, up to a maximum of 25 euros, no matter how long he or she stays in treatment. Independent inpatient nursing care, which is often called care care care treatment, is in fact no longer the term we have, costs 68 euros a day and the person's participation is 15%, or 10 euros a day. There are different prices in the nursing home, EUR 20 to 50 per day. Now, when a person has a family, the whole service must be covered for his money. If he or she does not have a family, the person and local government will pay, with 95% of the person's income going to cover their expenses. There are also individual cases when paying with a person, family and local government. Prices for home services were publicly available in Tallinn: the paid home service hour costs 3.45, and the discount price costs 64 cents. Very many municipalities do not offer this service to those who have a family. It was quite strange to hear from a daughter who was looking for a home help service in the Social Services Department, that she received such an answer: from us you do not receive this service, this service is too cheap for you. What are the prices of businesses? 12 to 30 euros per hour. If the family has financial difficulties, where can the needy be directed? He could be in active care as long as possible, undoubtedly, and the following service is an independent inpatient nursing care. There are also people who go to a family doctor and say that their mother has the right to receive this service for four weeks. It's cheaper, no doubt, but does he need it or doesn't he need it? Here is where I think we are having a certain amount of money wasted because the most expensive services are the most favourable to people. If there are two financial systems, if medical services are funded on the basis of solidarity, but care is on its own responsibility, then that is the case and it remains so that the pressure is on the most expensive services. What is the difference between current social welfare and care insurance? Here are the principles of welfare. The person in need and his/her loved ones can apply to the municipality for support. Local authorities must put in place procedures for what services are and how they are shared. However, § 16 of the Social Welfare Act states that the amount of the person's remuneration depends not only on the financial situation of the family. Here's the part I asked the person at the Ministry of Social Affairs yesterday about how many countries he can tell where the law states that an adult person delegates decision-making powers to his relatives, he can no longer make decisions and his family starts making them. I don't know these countries, but I think there's another one in the Eastern bloc. That is the general principle of care. The general principle of care insurance is the same as that of insurance: a person in an agreed situation receives an agreed service or support. These agreements then, of course, need to be dealt with. The second important question. If we had care insurance, I think there should be a unit like the one we see now in health insurance. In health insurance, someone's operating on that money, it's a health insurance fund. The Health Insurance Fund knows the amount of money and we know that money goes to this service. Now, let's think about maintenance insurance and imagine a maintenance fund. In that case, we would know that the money goes to maintenance. It's very good to draw the parallel. Services are ordered, just like the Health Insurance Fund, it has partners from whom it orders services, it controls quality and it does all that. In addition, this cash should be included in the cashier, both long-term care and care, and no more ball throwing: health care, care, cheaper service, more expensive service. That's the main difference between the two. What are the benefits of care insurance? I would not even say right now that this would necessarily be an additional financial contribution to the people. It might be, I'll get to that. But what are the fundamental advantages? We can better target services. We're talking about establishing a maintenance coordinator. Once again, if there is a question of whether a person can pay for a more expensive service, this service is more expensive for a person, but not substantially more expensive, then right now we are directing him to where he can get it, but then we can choose a better service. Active care is not the best service, not even for a person, because there are a lot of problems that remain unresolved. This is likely to result in a decrease in the number of non-targeted use of the most expensive services. There can also be no "ordered buy-in" if the need is satisfied in a more reasonable way. The cost of care for families is reduced and, of course, the principle of equal treatment is also guaranteed, both for people without children and for those without children, and for regional differences. There are, of course, many indirect effects on which, unfortunately, I cannot provide you with any tables or numbers. But I'm pretty sure the fear of aging will be reduced because they know they won't be burdened with their children. Which one of us would want it! Improving family relationships. Unfortunately, there are families that have broken down under the burden of informal care, for several reasons. The shortage of labour will be reduced. I have compared how many people had given up their jobs because of becoming a carer and how many jobs we had. At some point, these figures were quite close. So there's definitely a resource here. It is currently being discussed in Estonia that more children should be born. How many third, fourth and possibly other children will not be born, very welcome children when the burden of informal care arises in a middle-aged family! So you can't look at society like old and young and still children. When an old man is sick, it's bad for a middle-aged man, and it's bad for a kid. We should look at all the people together. What are the models that can be used if we decide to start using care insurance? First of all, of course, experts already need to develop standardised methodologies for determining maintenance needs and they need to be put in place. They have already actually been developed, but it is the IT side that needs to be resolved. The development of levels and schemes of care insurance varies from country to country. What is appropriate for us? We can take the template. I can't decide the terms and conditions of the care insurance, but together we can do it. To compensate everyone, according to valued needs, as is the Nordic custom, or to do so depending on the individual's own economic capacity, but not on the financial capacity of his or her family? Financing. Should this be a compulsory payment? We would have a fifth payment, as is the case in many countries. It's possible. Do you finance from the state budget? This is more questionable, because how do we guarantee that this necessary amount will still exist? Local government budgets can be financed, and voluntary payments may also be available.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U8	Honourable waitress! The time set for you is over, but I am sure that the Riigikogu will be willing to listen to you again if I give you more time. You don't mind, do you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U9	How about a minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U10	One minute. We'll definitely give you more, like five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U11	I came to this subject, which I would like to talk about much, much more. It's gerontology. Finally. It's not like we all end up needing maintenance. Is there anything we can do? It's a question for all of us here. We're not capable of stopping our aging from today's knowledge. Those who claim it to be possible are Utopists. But what can we do? We can slow down aging by about half. Unfortunately, body aging begins very early. The age of 25 is the peak of physical ability; from the age of 30, the aging of the body on the cellular level is beginning. The rate of ageing is such that about 1% of the annual physical capacity is reduced. We can take it to 0.5%. This requires the simplest things you all know: proper nutrition, exercise, rest and all these things. It actually works not only to prevent disease, but also to stop aging. Spiritual ability can be very good for this. A loss of spiritual ability is not what kills us. Actually, it's the heart that can't pump longer than 120 or 130 years. So if there's no brain disease, we can be bright for the rest of our lives. It is not possible to stop or reverse the aging of a person, but I have given an example here. So never say never, it's possible in nature. This little amoebile here, a turbid nutricula with a nice name, is basically immortal. Moreover, if environmental conditions are unfavourable, the adult form can become a youth. They're still dying, but without any significant aging. Will a person ever get that far? I can't tell you right now. One more important thing. When we say that healthy lifestyles help us to be healthier, I agree with that very much. Unfortunately, the causes of all diseases we do not know or know how to prevent them. So people are not always responsible for their own diseases and coping problems. I end with the idea that a person is young temporarily. Anyone who's lucky enough to live long enough, it gets old. It always happens for the first time in our life when we get old. It could be a beautiful journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U12	The members of the Riigikogu are perfectly aware that if the waitress is short of time, it can be compensated by questions. The first of these is presented by Urmas Kruus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! Let's look at these tables and look at the state funding. When I listened to your presentation, I wondered what model we would see in the vision of the future. Today we state the fact that in the development of our society, with our historical and cultural background, we have reached a point where we feel that we are not satisfied with the way life is happening around us, including the care of the elderly. How do you see a reasonable balance between the principle of prioritising the role of the family (I also mean responsibility and respect) and the state intervention (this also concerns financial intervention)? The evaluation of various instruments, including family resources, including in local governments, is always an ethically relatively complex issue. One thing is income, the other is property. What can we, or should we evaluate? Do you see that we, as a society in the future, are moving clearly in the direction of increasing the role of other people in caring for our loved ones and that our role is rather limited to paying more?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U14	Thank you. Yeah, different societies have been looked at. It can be said that these models have moved in all countries, even in the countries of southern Europe, to the fact that the common currency, the public sector, takes the role of having a minimum responsibility. Families will be cared for almost always, and we in Estonia will be happy to care for them, but somewhere there is a border where the family's own well-being and also the well-being of the carers will be greatly affected. That is why I think that the minimum level should be guaranteed by such a measure. If a person's need has indeed been objectively assessed, he or she would receive these services, rather than financial support, but in some cases there is also the possibility of financial support. It is in our hands to decide where we are going to implement this service in the first place. If the need for a person's services is low, then no doubt the family can provide this service. But I would ideally see that the minimum needs would be met by everyone, regardless of the existence of children. From now on, the family can provide added value. As I have been taught as a geriatric, let others do the things that can be done. The family has so many things that no one else can do, and they'll be carried by the family. In order to avoid family congestion, the public sector should cover a minimum level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U15	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U16	Thank you very much. Thank you, associate professor Kai Saks, for being committed to this very important area. But I'm going to ask you a little bit more to clarify, you kind of missed out on the subject. What are, however, mostly these financing systems in European countries, how much of this 'new payment' has been implemented? What do you think are the best, most exemplary systems? Perhaps you could give an example of a country after all? Secondly, if I can, I ask you that you have always talked about the financial independence of a person and also of an old person, that it cannot be that a person turns old and then he is dependent only on others. How much do you still see this financial independence in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U17	Thank you for your question. It's different from country to country. For example, in Britain, it is solved by assessing the need and taking into account the person's own financial situation when paying for the services. I don't know exactly if there's going to be real estate and all that. There are countries where this is so resolved, indeed, that when a person has financial resources, assets, his own contribution is greater. In the Nordic countries, the need and services are provided to these people. But one of the schematics I've been looking at and studying is a German model that I'm looking at right now. It is the case that all those who conclude health insurance are also obliged to take out care insurance and the need for services is divided into three steps. The financing scheme is moving. There is not a fixed amount, but if, for example, a person who has a medium-level care needs takes everything out as a service to him or her, he or she receives a sum of more, but does not receive any financial support, and for those who use only financial support, the grant is lower than the cost of the services. It seems like a quite sensible option that could be considered further. There are, of course, countries where insurance is, for example, at large care centres, that I secure myself where it is possible, that there are both health care services and care services, and that, if I ever need it, that way I can move into the system and get help at different levels. But Germany is, yes, an example that I think would be a good start.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U18	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U19	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this good, important and certainly very informative presentation, especially for dealing with the area of geriatrics and the latter's optimistic subtone. But now my question. You have shown a table of price components for home care in the RTPC study. In some ways, I think you answered that question in the previous answer. There are seven other countries besides Estonia in this table and you said that the Dutch model is not suitable for us. What could this country be like from what we set an example, and what should we do to get to the level of this country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U20	Yeah, I'm still coming back to Germany. On the one hand, there is currently such a use of public money, which we also need to achieve in the first place. But I know good and bad from there, everything needs to be investigated, and different systems need to be looked at. But what have I heard about the introduction of the German system that they themselves say not to do so? They did that when they introduced care insurance, they proposed solidarity-based and voluntary insurance in parallel. It happened that people with higher incomes chose voluntary insurance and that led to a breach of the principle of solidarity. They say that if you do, then introduce solidarity insurance at the same time, if you want to use it, and you could also set aside, as in the case of medical services, private insurance. But as far as these models are concerned, which are based on maintenance complexes, I think that Estonia is too small to use these models.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U21	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U22	Good manager! Good waitress! We are now celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Estonian state and you used the expression that this country is pathetic. You said the keys, the solution, were in our hands. I ask you: during the period of independence, how has Estonia reached the position on which you use the expression 'pity state'? What have rulers done or failed to do in the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U23	The Estonian state is not pathetic. I love the country of Estonia very much, I'm going along with this 100th birthday, but if we look at this sector, I'm gonna feel sorry for myself. I certainly do not consider the Estonian state pathetic. Let's look at the development story. In fact, it was not until the nineties that health insurance was created, and long-term care is a child of the beginning of this century. In 2003, on the health side, we carried out the 'Estonian Care Care Network Development Plan 2004 to 2025'. There were a lot of good ideas written in there, such as that long-term care needs to be mixed up by 2015, because there is also a clear involvement of the welfare side. What have we not done? We do not have nursing homes in Estonia. We have nursing care departments that are limited in time. We do not have institutions that are one of the dominant places in other countries for the care of people who have a great need for care. It was all written in there. A lot had been done, but there was no funding. That's why I said top politicians have the keys. If we limit ourselves to pilot projects, which are now heavily launched and which are very important for the development of services, then it must be taken into account that, as soon as the pilot project, which is being carried out with European Union money, will, unfortunately, end up largely if there is no guarantee of a stable permanent financing facility, as is the case with the sickness fund from which this sector is financed. So what I'm going to say is that omissions are political.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U24	Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We all grow old and society grows old in the middle. I agree with you that there is obviously no very simple model of how to finance family care, and we cannot do exactly one country model. But you were talking about this insurance model. Would you mind opening up some background? Have you also involved financial specialists, economists? Would it work as such in a country the size of Estonia? As we know, there should be some amount of money to make the system work. How did you think that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U26	Thank you! Private insurance companies have studied this issue, who have said that the Estonian state is too small to pay off private companies. Because of this, like perhaps health services, it must and will be a matter of Estonian society, a national issue. As we currently have a health insurance fund, it can function very well as such a system in Estonia. I come once again to the fact that the World Bank report, as well as the task force, pointed out that the World Bank does not recommend care insurance as the first thing, should start with a zero point. I mean, we're not at the zero point, it's been 15 years since the zero point. That is why we do not find it inappropriate to discuss this issue at the moment. I'm reminding you of another one. The World Bank did not recommend Estonia to adopt the Estonian kroon. The recommendations of the World Bank are very valuable and we need to think about them, but we still have to make our own decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U27	Marika Tuus-Laul, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U28	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you that again. You've done a lot of statistics on these things. Is there, for example, that when elderly people are being treated in an active treatment hospital where they are undergoing some kind of space medicine-level surgery, but if they later go home, if they have been deprived of nursing homes, follow-up care and everything, how many people really have to leave this world, or if their treatment results become "zero"? Where does this balance come from? Maybe if we put money into after-care and everything else, the state would be more useful than the fact that this person is just leaving, but an expensive operation is done.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U29	No one in Estonia knows these numbers, I think, because they simply do not exist. But few examples have reached the press, we've heard of them. I have heard quite a few examples, too, one point out. A hip prosthetic operation helps a lot of people to get on their feet. But if a person has developed dementia while waiting for his line, which is not appreciated, has other problems, goes home from the hospital and stays in bed, then my question is, what is the point of this thing? It's more like a little bad, 'cause now he's not getting out of bed anymore. The system cannot be developed in individual stages, as we now tend to have if we are doing a pilot project in one narrow direction. If we don't look at the system as a whole, it'll go away. People are resourceful, we still find the hole where we get a service that actually helps us less, but it's more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U30	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. It was very educational and interesting for all of us. Care insurance has actually been mentioned for years. Have there been any calculations in the search for this right model of how many years should contributions be made in this new class of insurance in order for this insurance to take effect? I ask you another question: how old are the people today that could ever be the subject of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U32	I have been educated as a doctor and I honestly admit that I have not dealt with these problems because no decisions have been taken. I think it's more competent than me to deal with these issues. However, if you look at how this issue is resolved in society, because this need may unfortunately also arise at a very young age, I hope it does not occur, but there are such cases, there is actually no age limit here. But the answer to what age it's going to bring is that I'd expect from some financial people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U33	Thank you. Mrs. Saks, you said we had one key. This is one very simple solution, the key is very simple and concrete. Please give it to us, give us a hint. What awaits us in the future, do our parents and ourselves need to be cared for at home, and how can we overcome financial people's assertion that there is not enough scope for financial insurance? So, what's the key? So we'd try to use it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U34	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U35	I wish to all of us that we would be happy to grow old in our home and learn to accept the help of our children when we need it, because it is not easy. That's how it happens to most people. But when there is a need for care, I really want each of us to be able to make our own decisions first and foremost. I do not have any data on the fact that it is unreasonable to establish care insurance in Estonia. These tests have been done, I've heard it from private companies, but I don't know what else to say about the state level. But where someone gets old and where he gets help, it depends on every particular occasion. We're very different, and our wishes are different. I also know people who have died and who my granddaughter has wanted to take with him, but who have said that he does not want to remain a burden on his granddaughter and he goes to a nursing home, and he is gone. So this is about our choices and our financial opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U36	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U37	Good manager! Good waitress! We have about 4,000 people in nursing homes. One place payment for a nursing home actually equals two pensions. How much are we talking about here? What is needed to ensure that people who need it receive decent care in a nursing home? If we see that the payoff is 600 euros and there are 4,000 people, that's 2.4 million a month. If half of it comes from pensions, then it's 1.2 million, about 15 million in a year. Am I wrong? How much are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U38	Thank you! I'm sure I wouldn't want to look at nursing homes separately, because there's only one small possibility. In Estonia, more people are sent to nursing homes because there are relatively few home services. That is why I would still respond to the entire financing of long-term care. I'm not going to give you numbers, but I'm going to say that 1% of GDP is what we should get to very quickly. That would be the one that wouldn't take us back to where the decline would occur right now. But ensuring better care arrangements would require 2% of GDP. In order for the situation to be close to ideal, it would take 3 to 3.5%. These are the places where, yes, we have to make decisions. 1% is about maintaining the situation and slightly improving it systemically, providing the right services, not just nursing home services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U39	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U40	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your briefing. I liked the part where you spoke most about your contribution to ageing, i.e. that in the case of ageing, the loss of physical capacity can be significantly reduced, depending on the person's own contribution. The question I have is how much care insurance should be linked to a person's own behavioural contribution when we talk about care insurance as a solidarity system in the form of health insurance. How do you think the best way to influence people's own behaviour towards reducing ageing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U41	Thank you! Let's look at health insurance. The use of medical services is even more related to our way of life. Does the treatment, for example, depend on the body mass index, or do we ask how many hours a week you move? No. We certainly cannot do such a legal approach in care insurance, either. But what can we do? When I was once offered voluntary pension insurance, I asked back then, it was a long time ago whether they were also offering care insurance. No. I said I'd be happy to pay for the care insurance, but I would never use this service, and so could I. However, there are diseases for which proper eating does not help, movement does not help, enough rest does not help. So I can't see the direct connection, but I can see the indirect link. Practicing and promoting healthy lifestyles, including talking more about ageing, is what we can do for ourselves. That's what we do, and we have to do more.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U42	Tiit Terik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Mrs. Saks! In order to ensure retirement, there are different practices in countries. I have heard that in some countries, the elderly, without heirs or even heirs, have the opportunity to dispose of their real estate in advance to insurance companies, for example, and thereby receive regular retirement incomes that can cover all kinds of expenses. This amount of money is likely to be something that may not be possible when you collect it. How would you comment on this model? Do we have anything similar that a single old man who has valuable property transfers it to an honest company who will take care of him for the rest of his life?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U44	Yeah, it's a really good model. I think that we would all like to grow old and would like us to be able to cover these costs ourselves even if we have a need for care, why not with our real estate. That is what we know, and that is what social workers know. I know that there have been companies in Estonia that have offered such contracts. I don't know how successful they have been. But I know that social workers are doing a lot of work on this issue, so that before a person has a real need for services, his real estate would not go to anyone else's hands, so to speak, as a gift. This is where people can turn when they know it's a safe place, not a year from now, just not with my real estate. I believe there are users, but there has to be confidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U45	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I was inspired by your example of hip surgery in an elderly person and by waiting for a change in human health. You mentioned that there is no holistic approach. You're a doctor, and I'm sure you know what holistic medicine is. It's from China. What should be done to ensure that such a holistic approach progresses in both medicine and care in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U47	The whole thing is guaranteed by having one of the pots from which we raise, and we also have a holistic assessment of needs. Let's look at the medical services. We're purely appreciating the need for health. We do not have a social worker financed by medical institutions; this comes at the expense of other services. Let's look at the services. A person with long-term care needs also has very often medical needs. If we leave them in separate pots, we can't get that holistic approach. Let's start with a needs assessment. The assessment must be complete, not just blood pressure, not only blood sugar, not only the knowledge that there is a son at home, but also the need to know if he can handle all of this. Next, when we make financing decisions, we need to have a pot where the money comes from, so we can use it sensibly. If these two systems or sectors remain isolated for a person with long-term care needs, the same situation will remain. We can build as many more hospitals as you, these places will all be filled. I know there's always the most expensive places, the intensive rooms and departments are always full, because there's more money. That means that this is not the solution. When we make more hospitals and more people are on active treatment, problems with long-term care often remain unresolved and people do not receive further services so that they do not return to care. The hospital doesn't care. I've been discussing this with the hospital executives. One month there's a person in the internal department, next month in cardiology, then in urology. Hospital managers say: but the health insurance fund pays for this service. And so is the funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U48	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question comes from a study of the elderly. You have pointed out that the sadness and depression of the carer is greatest when he or she is at home and the carer's allowance is paid. I caught myself thinking there was a bit of a contradiction here. After all, home is where an elderly person is best placed to live and where it is best to get a service. Actually, the best place to die is home. On the other hand, the stress level is the highest there. Am I right to conclude that this is because the loved ones are forced to stay at home, have very little material opportunity, can be stress, depression, etc., which is also passed on to the caretaker? What is an indicator that seems contradictory and contradictory?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U50	Yeah, that's the example I made because it seems like home should be the best. People want to be at home the most, and they want to be cared for there. If you look at who is receiving care allowance, one contingent is really working-age people, for whom this is the main financial side. You saw these amounts, they were monthly sums that didn't cover even one day's care needs, but the main thing is that health insurance gets covered and that's why these people choose it. They're not trained, they don't know how to maintain. The second contingent that chooses the care allowance is those who simply have so little money. There have also been examples of this in the case of a spouse. For example, two people who both had disabilities were each other's carers. Well, how much to expect from there! These examples are very interesting. But the amount of money that is currently allocated for carer support does not provide substantive assistance, but provides health insurance. So these people get services the worst. If a person already has a carer who receives support, then the municipality may say that there is no more services to be expected from us, you will not receive any more services, you will receive carer support, you can cope with this. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I know we are talking today about how to cope with old age, and we are talking about providing care insurance. Unfortunately, we also have quite a number of opposite situations where parents have to care for their children, the issue of people with disabilities and all that. Is there any way to look at the other side as a whole when we talk about personal care in the full picture? Is this insurance supposed to touch this side?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U52	Tanel Winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U53	Thank you. Certainly, if there is care insurance, then it does not ask age, that is absolutely clear. Why has it been brought here today as a subject for the elderly? The majority of people who need it are elderly people. But unfortunately, yes, we have to say that healthy lifestyles reduce the risk of getting sick, reduce the risk of needing care, but we never know in advance. This need may arise in every lifetime. Separate insurance for young people and old people is certainly not wise.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U54	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U55	Thank you very much. Thank you for a very thorough presentation. I have a very simple question. What do you think will happen in the case of older people in the dream that the three Baltic States want, so that we no longer talk about the Nordic and the Baltic countries, but talk about the NB8 or the Nordic and Baltic countries, so it doesn't matter if we are talking about the elderly of Finland, Sweden, Estonia or Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U56	Thank you. This is a very good, interesting and broad subject. Let's put it this way, Estonia could be among the Nordic countries for a lot of indicators. Can we take one to one of their care insurance systems? Here, I'd like to think a little bit about it and discuss it further. We know that the population is ageing. Is that bad or good? Well, good, I'd say, it's good, in the sense that we all live full of our potential biological life. Who do I want to die for? But as the population ages, there is also a raised bar in the Nordic countries, such as Finland, I know. In the meantime, it was very easy to get home services, but this bar has been raised because it has become too much of a force for the country. So we need to look at the situation in Estonia and how many differences in ownership should be applied, depending on the wealth of the person, but not his family. These are the issues that need a broader debate, a debate of politicians and experts, in order to determine what makes sense to us. But I believe we belong in the Northside by the end anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U57	Now for the last question. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good performer! You claimed that the local government has reason to refuse to provide care services if the person receives carer support. We discussed the same issue in the Committee on the Problem of the Population Crisis and concluded that this is not the case: the local government does not really have this right. On what basis did you claim it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U59	Yes, this right does not rely on it in itself, but then the existence of children and grandchildren is looked at, so it is complex. The decision is made by the local government, the decision-maker is a specific person. Each of us has our own preferences and our own thoughts about how much the family should contribute, how and where to start. So as long as this decision-maker is a person with his own attitudes, these differences will remain across Estonia for so long. In practice, these differences exist, and unfortunately I hear from people, whether they are right or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U60	Thank you, Associate Professor Kai Saks! Our next waitress is the Social Security Deputy Chancellor Rait Kuuse. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U61	Mr President, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, thank you for this opportunity to discuss this with you. But first, a few thoughts about the maintenance load. I'll divide my report into three major blocks. First of all, let me see what the figures we're talking about show us. Then I will briefly introduce the activities of the care burden task force, who carried out studies at the State Chancellery for two years and discussed what solutions could be. I will also talk a little bit about the proposals and then about what has already been done. First of all, what are we talking about? When we talk about long-term care, we are talking about people who need help in organising everyday life over a longer period of time because of their physical or mental abilities or reduced working ability. I don't spend much time giving definitions, I think we're basically imagining who the people who need long-term care are. The truth is that it is not the right thing in the sector to make a distinction between the need for long-term care and the need for health or social services or somewhere else, because as a rule, attention is needed from different aspects. If we look at how many people there are, we can best rely on three sources, or at least I have brought them out. Different studies also give us somewhat different numbers. I consider myself perhaps the best study that could lead to conclusions and decisions, 'Estonian Social Survey 2016', but these studies are undoubtedly still available at both European and Estonian level. The first column represents those people who are guardians of the adult age and to whom the local government paid a fee or a grant for the care, say, not a fee. These are data from the Social Benefits Data Register. There are 9,000 people with a maintenance load based on this register, just the fact of paying the fee, and most of them care for older people. Let's look at the social survey data. The number of people with a care load is much higher, currently 65,000 people, more women and fewer men, with a pattern in comparison between men and women that if the care load increases, there will be more women in the role of carers. The 65-year-olds are cared for by 36700 men and women. Social survey data is a good starting point for us because it asks how much a person actually had to do weekly care. One might say that if care takes more than 20 hours a week from a family member, it is a very heavy maintenance load. Perhaps a debate can be held, to what extent caring for a family member or a family member is normal, one part of family life in our sense, and from where it is beginning to inhibit other forms of participation in society. The Labour Force Survey also measures the number of people with a care load, but as I said, in the future debate it might be good to rely on the Estonian Social Survey. There are international sources, too. If we look at how much care obligation hinders the participation of Estonian people in the labour market, we will see what has been going through in many places, that some 1350015-74-year-olds are so busy with the care obligation that their work is out of the question. Various studies show about the same number of people who have either had to work part - time or even quit to care for their loved ones. However, this is a real problem in the context of our economy, a real financial loss. When it comes to maintenance, we could also talk about what kind of services people receive. Our care is structured in such a way that the organisation of social welfare plays a very important role at local level. Local authorities are responsible for organising, evaluating and also providing services for primary social care. When we talk about public welfare, it must be said that the state organises mainly the care of people with special psychological needs and the care of the elderly does not deal in this form other than setting rules. This, in turn, has led to this development, and I would like to give an example that, if the reforms of special care services in recent years have created a situation where people would rather receive a service that would keep them active and in the community and take them out of care facilities, then the proportion of services provided to the elderly at home is falling compared to the share of home care services. This basically means that older people at home do not receive a service as a rule. According to various data, only 15% of the need for support at home has been met in Estonia. Let's look to the future. Here I am really only talking about prognosticism, and I'm not suggesting exact science. If we look at the data on the care burden and how quickly we age and how the elderly population in Estonia will grow, we will see that the number of people in need of care or care will increase dramatically over the next few years. So it really is not a question of whether we have to deal with this problem and look for solutions, but of what solution we agree on. The Task Force on Maintenance Burden had been convened to look at the current situation and opportunities, with broad involvement of organisations, experts and also international partners, as well as to receive advice on where the state should focus in particular in order to address the problem of maintenance load. The Task Force worked until the end of last year and there were quite a number of results. I dare advise you to meet them if there is any room. First of all, the World Bank survey, which was discussed here, 'Reduction of caring load in Estonia'. However, one perhaps more specific and clear document for practitioners is 'Analysis of legal clarity and guidance for local governments', which answers these questions, under which conditions, when, how and how much should family members contribute to the maintenance of their loved ones, if the latter does not have the means to provide their own services, and from where must the financing of the local government and the public sector come into play. There's actually a lot of noise. It is believed that if there is a family, the state and local government have no role to play. That is definitely not the case. The obligation to assess the need for assistance and to provide services exists, a separate question is how much a person and his or her loved ones should bear and how much they can bear. But I suggest everyone browse that document. Now long-term care problems. The World Bank did not bring out anything very special that we would not know, but it did confirm our conviction that family members have a heavy burden in today's Estonia. Access to services is increasingly dependent on the solvency of the user. Before, there was a small calculation of how much people are paying for a nursing home right now. There are over 7,500 people in the care home a year, 8,000 places and a little bit more. People pay 76% of the general care costs from their pockets, mostly for being in a care facility, and this amount amounted to about 60 million a year. So, basically, this system is built on the agreement that the costs of general care for the elderly will be borne by the people. This leads to low public spending. The World Bank calculation tells us that these are 0.6% of GDP. Again, the same statement that 90% of it goes to nursing homes, not to home support services. The organisation of care is fragmented between the social and health sectors as well as between national and local authorities. Our choice has been that the local government is the right place to organise social work. It is clear that we often encounter the extent to which we can regulate and standardise, so that local governments offer a uniform and uniform measure, and this practice meets similar conditions across Estonia. There have been very different solutions here, but the new version of the Social Welfare Act, which entered into force in 2016, provides a pretty clear framework, which must be acknowledged, has sometimes been implemented in very different ways. I hope that the reform of the local government will help to better harmonise this standard and improve the capacity of the local level. There are two sides to the development of a long-term care system. As usual, first of all, urgent concerns are important, and then a plan must be put in place which ideal system we want to have and how to move towards it. I recall that, if we spend 0.6% of GDP on long-term care today, the financial reference rate could be 2 to 2.5% of GDP in a realistic way. Towards Nordic level, going to Norway, we could talk about 4% or more of GDP. There's got to be a balance somewhere. It is clear from the World Bank survey that we need to agree on what balance this should be, how much care should be borne by family members, how much should people carry themselves and how much should the public sector carry. Here, given the demographic pressure, a new balance is likely to have to be sought. The World Bank also had very specific recommendations. In the first phase, it was recommended to improve the current situation and increase funding. This increase in funding could be 0.2% of GDP, which could be between 40 million and 50 million a year in today's currency. What could be the result? Mandatory minimum standards for local government services and also for their financing could be obtained. This money could also provide a common model of evaluation, which would help to move between sectors and better plan the activities of sectors so that people do not disappear between standards. How do you finance all this? The World Bank says that countries are moving towards a "targeted universality," i.e. a broad coverage in terms of people and services, but ownership is still dependent on the solvency of the person in need of care. There have been a lot of debates here, there was also a maintenance task force, about the meaning of income and property. Funding mechanisms will be made less dependent on the contribution of the working age population. There is one very important point of consideration here. We know that we will have fewer working-age populations. The burden that a working-age population can bear in the form of taxes is quite an important issue. The World Bank does not recommend long-term care insurance based on a contribution similar to social tax, precisely because then we are in fact constantly faced with sustainability issues. The German experience referred to here also shows that in recent years they have had to gradually increase the percentage of insurance premiums. I do not refer here the data I have looked at, but the data of my colleagues. They say that this tax should now reach 2.8% of income per month in order to guarantee this insurance. But I might be wrong here. Maintenance insurance. I think we have approached the concept of care insurance very differently. While we are talking about pure care insurance, such a solution is not recommended to us, but common services, descriptions, price lists, instructions and arrangements ♪ need to be invested in them. In essence, we have two major sets of options in the broadest sense. One is about taxes on labour and raising taxes on labour. This is, in our understanding, a model of insurance, where people insure themselves for the future with appropriate payments or where working people pay an insurance premium for the care they need. It is a model of solidarity. Another option is to contribute from the state budget, where we focus on the services of local governments and their provision in particular. The person's own contribution will definitely remain here, the question is what is the ceiling of this own contribution. The rules for assessing maintenance needs should also be very clear and independent, so that they cannot be bent in different corners of Estonia and formulated in different forms. The principle of avoiding institutionalisation must apply, of course, which remained here before, and people must be helped in their homes, where they live, there is no need to offer them an alternative environment as their first choice. Of course, the third option is also: we will continue as we have today, which essentially means that people will pay the costs of their general care themselves. When you talk about what's been done and what's going on, you can say that we've started quite a number of things. True, we have many pilot projects. The first of these, to which I wish great success and where I hope to get good ideas about how to organise the system in the future, is the same pilot project for care coordination that we hope to start this summer with six local authorities. This should help to assess people's needs for care and to find appropriate services for them. We also need to address the issue of local funding. As a result of a number of agreements, we have provided additional holiday opportunities for people with maintenance loads. Soon, the Ministry of Social Affairs is launching a call for tenders to find volunteering organisations to develop a model for empowering the community and volunteers for Estonia. Something else has been done. It is clear that political attention to the organisation and reform of the long-term care system is undoubtedly needed and it must be decided how to set these priorities. We will not be over or around the issue of funding. This is where I finish my report. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U62	Questions for the waitress. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report, you noted that you believe that home care is relatively poorly developed in nature and that the services that could be provided or offered at home are quite limited compared to institutional care. Is the reason for this because we do not have enough service providers or that this system is not integrated with home care in such a way that people receive the service, or that people simply do not have enough money and have not been found with the local government to fund these home services if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U64	Thank you for your question. It is true that the share of services supporting homehood is quite low today. There are probably reasons to look for here more widely. This depends on how we talk about our needs and how much we are going to seek help. But in general, this fragmentation is still due to the fact that we still had a large number of local authorities until the end of last year, with very different capacities and very different practices, with very different specialists, and each of them had to put in place the organisation of social welfare itself. We have minimum levels, standards described, but they are not excessively restrictive. In fact, this is a freedom of decision and choice at local level. I think that, in many ways, it has created the possibility that such a different approach has become possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U65	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Task Force and the World Bank do not recommend care insurance, but they say they could consider applying insurance systems. You have identified quite a number of options, four options on how to proceed with funding, which could be considered. What option is your preference as a representative of the ministry now, or what is considered to be the most real? The second question is very brief. It has been said and discussed at length that the description of the services provided by the general care homes of the elderly is not sufficient and that there is no licensing system. Will there be changes in the near future? If we had a passport system, we should certainly not hear about situations where older people are not treated in a care establishment as if it were reasonable and necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U67	When asked which direction to move in, it must be said that there are not too many people in Estonia, there are 1.3 million people in Estonia, we know each other by name and face. In fact, we should also be able to provide services in exactly the same way when this need for assistance comes. Where to do it or how to do it? Our opinion today is that we must try to resolve the problems still near the person's place of residence. Perhaps the question is how much we can empower local authorities so that they can support and help their people. As I mentioned earlier, there are many of these, I would say, misconceptions about what the local government has to do and what it does not have to do. Over the last few years, the Chancellor of Justice has also paid a great deal of attention to what is the task of the local government in organising social welfare, plus there has been case law in some cases. It turns out that the task of local government is much higher than the practice shows. We also need to consider how this financing scheme should be built at local level, so that the maintenance load issues are not so differently resolved. That's this side. As far as general welfare institutions are concerned, the reform of the local government has also led to the Social Insurance Board having new roles in monitoring the quality of services. I know they already pay more attention to general care, they look at and appreciate the quality of the service. There is certainly a great deal of commitment in this practice that the various agencies would already carry out this monitoring under the current legislation and would give a clear signal if the services provided were not high-quality or dignified. We have more opportunities for that than we think. A separate question is how much the state will regulate it by means of licences and a number of solutions. There's gotta be some sort of balance. I think that, in the end, there is no overcoming or overcoming the fact that the market still needs to be organised to some extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U68	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Mr. Spruce! The need for care is certainly wider; it is not just an issue of care insurance for the elderly. Today's press has an overview of a survey commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which says that in eight years the number of children with disabilities has doubled. It's like the number of children is falling, but the number of children with disabilities is doubling. Could you give me some kind of insight into the conclusions of this study? What does it mean for our maintenance load, what do these figures mean and what are compared?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U70	Thank you for your question. The situation of people with disabilities in Estonia has been under observation not only recently, but still for long years. Last week we heard about the shadow report on the protection of the rights of people with disabilities, which highlighted concerns. The truth is that there are 150,000 people in Estonia who have been sentenced to disability. Half of them are elderly. The proportion of children is not so high, but it has recently increased. Here maybe two observations can be made. One is that the designation of disability has taken place in a rather narrow view as a system, rather than looking at a person's health and current performance, perhaps less attention has been paid to the opportunities for help. As a result, this increase in the determination of trees has perhaps been so surprisingly large. Here, there are things that can be improved in the methodology, which should also be decided on what then is disability, which health problem can be alleviated by some specific treatment scheme and which is not. The study itself also highlights the need for us to reduce fragmentation. Here is rather the question of whether the services provided at "local level" come after the rehabilitation provided by the state. We have carried out quite a number of activities in part in the spirit of this study. The first thing that we have in mind is that all assessments of children initiated by schools, the Social Insurance Board or the child welfare system will come together in one place. I think that maybe there is a solution to reducing the proportion of different assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U71	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U72	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I cannot in any way approve of a situation where pensioners sleep at night when they think about what happens when they are no longer able to cope. Everyone wants to feel dignified, no one wants to go to others for help. If we look at the size of pensions, we all realize that children or grandchildren must certainly pay for being in a nursing home. Often, the person who cares is already in retirement age. Let's look at the experience of Finland. After all, in Finland, at least 15% of the pension must remain in the hands of the elderly. We are in a situation where pensioners even have to ask their children for candy money. How do you think the Finnish system would be suitable for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U73	Starting from the last part of this question, I say that learning from the experiences of any country is undoubtedly necessary. I am not sure that we will be able to copy the experiences of one country or another, because the background systems, as well as national solutions as a whole, are still quite different. When we start comparing with Finland, we should also talk about the fact that Estonia's share of social protection expenditure compared to Finland does not really stand a comparison. We are spending 16.4% of GDP on social protection expenditure, which is much higher in Finland. But the question in itself of how much a person has to finance the services he needs was also the focus of the World Bank study and the task force's activities. As a result, an additional legal analysis was commissioned to guide local authorities on how much money they can actually charge to support a family member. Here, too, these scissors came out, in fact, the practice is based on very different bases, which are not necessarily in accordance with the law on family law and social welfare. So the introduction of such a limit, when we talk about how we are going to clean up the system, to formulate additional rules, for example, in the Social Welfare Act, should also be under consideration. Indeed, it is important that people have enough money not only to pay their home bills or their home bills, but also to have enough money to live decently.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U74	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U75	Thank you. The need for care is growing rapidly, the number of taxpayers is not, it is decreasing. So the task is very tough. You and your previous speaker described the situation. The previous speaker said he was the doctor, not the financial and economic aspects, you said you couldn't miss the financial side. But then don't go by and say more or less some kind of information about the size of the problem, the sources of money and the focus on where you would direct this resource. Some kind of identification so we can understand better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U76	Got it. So let me put it this way: the World Bank brought out 40 million a year as the first investment in the study at the time, I'd say 50 million. 50 million will enable the system to be organised and increased to 0.8% of GDP. As I said, we will get the next result, like the next one, we will be able to set clearer minimum standards. The vast majority of this amount should go to increase local spending in this area. According to current thinking, this may not necessarily be a question of the fact that the entire 50 million should be an additional financial allocation, but it is also a question of whether any of the amounts that local authorities will receive from the State on the basis of an agreement today and in the future could go more into the care burden area. In the context of Estonia, in the long term, I think that we could talk about this level, so that 2 to 2.5% of GDP could be spent on long-term care issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U77	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U78	I'm sorry! The question was, where? Local services and national coordination. Yeah, services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U79	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned several times that the main burden of providing care services is probably left to local authorities. Do we have minimum standards for the services that the local authority must meet and have they been properly reviewed today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U81	Thank you for your question. I'm adjusting who's got the main load. The practice of European countries shows that the burden on our loved ones will not go away. We simply have this much higher than the European Union average when it comes to the average. We have 80% of the burden on our loved ones, and the European Union average is 67%. It's a very different picture from one country to another. If we ask whether we have enough laws to organise these services at the local government level, the new version of the Social Welfare Act entered into force at the beginning of 2016. So we have a framework and a set of rules that, in my opinion, have not yet been fully implemented as envisaged by the legislator. There's still room for improvement. If you ask if this is enough, it is only enough to improve the situation a little bit today. But if we want clearer rules and frameworks, we will probably have to reopen this issue and negotiate it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U82	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U83	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! In your presentation, you mentioned the great differences between the capacities of Estonia's current municipalities. What can we do? After all, it is generally known that the mere increase in the percentage of income tax allocated to municipalities will lead to this imbalance and the inequality to increase further. The model of the Equalisation Fund is specified depending on the number of children in the municipalities and the services provided to them. Do we need to change the model of your report or do something about it? How, then, can we level out this disunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U84	Thank you for your question. I think the easiest way to solve this issue is to look at the map of Estonia. If we bring out people of different ages and needs there, we can say that there are clearly regions in Estonia where there are older people, people with disabilities and also more unemployed people than in other regions. This, in turn, means that their capacity is expected to be lower even in the case of a priori-like financing mechanism. I think that the first thing to do is to review the financing model for local authorities who have more problems with the'maintenance load' and maybe give priority to supporting these local authorities with additional resources. If we get more specific here, we could talk about Southeast and North-East Estonia in the first place today and then the rest of the regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U85	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U86	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There has been a great deal of talk here about how much the public sector spends on maintenance. Are there estimates of the total cost, taking into account the contribution of the private sector to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U87	Thank you for your question. I pointed out earlier that 76% of general care is self-funded, the rest is public money. Private money as such for care services is virtually not included in the statistics. The general care home financing scheme is structured in such a way that the private sector creates places, but the cost of the place is paid by the customer or, if he does not have any money, by his closest or local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U88	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I understand that the subject of today's debate is the availability of care and, consequently, we are also talking about the finances, i.e. finding money to provide this service. We know that health services and welfare services are financed from different sources, that health services are financed considerably more, and that these services are not linked. We know that what our customers need does not match the offer. What do you think could be done now to unite these two sides, to finance social welfare and to finance health care, so that there can be some solutions now, without additional funding for social welfare?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U90	Thank you for your question. The first step is better coordination, very clearly, so that we look at all the possibilities from one point of view, from what human needs are, rather than from where it is more convenient or easier to get a service. This is the main place to bet. From there, we need to go further in order for different systems to be able to speak the same language. That's quite a challenge for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U91	Thank you, Rait Kuuse! Maarika Kurrikoff, Head of Tartu City Government Welfare Service, is now a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U92	Good afternoon, honourable listeners. I represent the view of Tartu City Government and perhaps the view of local governments on the issue of maintenance load. I am the Head of Service in Tartu City, such as the Ministry of Welfare. There are several services in Tartu and each service has its own target group. The service specialises in dealing with elderly and disabled persons. First of all, a little about the background related to Tartu. The proportion of care needs for 60-year-olds and older people is also constantly increasing in Tartu. Let's look at the drawing. Since 1998, we have an increase of about 3,000 people aged 60 and over. If we consider that about 15% of them have a need for care, then it turns out that there have been an increase of 400 persons, or these figures are constantly increasing. You've all got replicated material on what the welfare service does. Well, I'm not going to stop at that, so you can get to know it on the basis of these materials. But I'd still like to disprove the myth that's been spreading in the press lately, just like the local authorities wouldn't do anything. Let's look at the amount of money allocated to the organisation of welfare services. We cannot say that the local government is not doing anything. It is organised that carers receive support, social transport services are organised, and home services are available. One of the concerns that domestic services have and would like to draw attention to is that when it is said at national level that it is cheaper to provide services at home, let's say, in the private market, the prices of services are still very high when it comes to providing home services. If a person has a need for seven hours of care a day, the cost of a nursing home will start to exceed the cost, i.e. it is more expensive for the person and his loved ones. What is there to deny, very often domestic conditions are such that 24/7 care is still not guaranteed there. Older people do not have washing conditions, toilets, access and adjustments. Tartu is a small wooden city, there are quite a lot of cougars that can't even be moved to a functional bed on the second floor. How are we gonna do maintenance there if we can't get in there? One of the major concerns of Tartu is that we need nursing homes, but they are not enough. There is a queue of nursing homes throughout Estonia. We are not talking about the fact that every elderly person who has a little need for care should have a nursing home service. We are talking about persons with high maintenance needs, elderly people who have stayed in bed, who may have detected MRSA or ESBL bacteria, or who may be HIV positive. What happens to them now? He is bedridden and we take him home when, for example, the hospital reports that he needs maintenance, or a neighbor calls us and tells us that the person has stayed in bed, he has been sent home from the hospital without informing the local government. In fact, the costs we spend on general care are quite high. Outside Tartu, there are 100 of our people who we support with EUR 336000, which is quite a large amount. This amount is constantly increasing because prices are rising. There is a warm food delivery home and there are services for elderly people with special psychiatric needs: home care, day care services. I very much like the example of the Tartu Mental Health Care Centre. They rent a dwelling from the private market and the home care service covers the time when older people do not receive day care. This means integrating services, which I think should be considered throughout Estonia. There is a personal assistant service, home adaptation support, sign language translation, etc. The services we develop, what we think about, what we offer to our customers and their loved ones are quite a lot. But the sum of these amounts, speaking at the level of the individual, may not be enough. We also pay additional social benefits if people fail, for example, to finance diapers, to buy out medicines, etc. But what are the concerns of our daily work? We really have to admit that the care burden on those who are caring for themselves is too high. Individuals, families, need to take care of older people, the elderly, while at the same time caring for underage children. Perhaps both the material and the emotional sides are very exhausting. In fact, there are no basic funding options for such long-term care and there is no systemic approach, i.e. we do not integrate health care with social care services, etc. The city of Tartu is quite advanced in this respect, for example, health care and social work activities are joined together and this has led to a significant improvement in cooperation. There is no maintenance-level approach. This means that care needs are spread to different levels: elderly or working-age people with high maintenance needs, moderate care needs and low care needs. We are not talking about this subject at a care level. For example, there are no information channels available. In our local government, we would expect such a system that if the hospital knew that the person would remain in bed and no longer succeed, the hospital would be obliged to inform the local government that this has now happened to the person. The exchange of information between the Social Insurance Board and other parties could be better. Home services are not available in the amount that people need (personal assistance, domestic help, home care). For example, Estonia is often in a situation where the Estonian Health Insurance Fund limits the number of home visits that a nurse may make. The Health Insurance Fund finances two home visits, but at the same time a person may need more of these visits in his/her home environment, for example, maybe he/she needs to be tied up four times a week, but there is no such financing model at the moment. I already mentioned that there aren't enough nursing homes. I would like to stress in particular that there are no nursing homes for those who have a very extensive need for care. When I talk to the private sector, I can give you examples that we will be looking for a place for a few weeks and we will find it, but after this person has arrived in that nursing home, we will be called there and they will tell us that please come back and we will not be able to deal with him. Every day you have to face the need to find solutions where this person could go, and that is not an easy task. What else is there to worry about? Some older people or actually working-age people need inpatient nursing care for the rest of their lives, i.e. care, but this need is unnoticed. I myself have been involved in introducing this issue since 2003. This topic has not moved forward in any direction; rather, people receive inpatient nursing care services for fewer and fewer days, for example 19.8 days is the average number of days a person can stay at the University of Tartu Hospital. But if a person has a probe or gastrostomy installed, and a call comes from the hospital that this person needs a nursing home service, I dare say, it has been seen in practice that nursing homes simply fail to provide such care. It's a place of concern. What else is the problem? There are no standards. For example, the city of Tartu has to pay more and more support to cover the costs of nursing homes. Years ago, there was a situation that the basic price, for example EUR 600 per month, included diapers, aids, medicines. We are increasingly receiving reports from nursing homes that these costs are no longer included in the basic price, and then the local government will pay more. In my opinion, it should be determined which level of well-being should be created for a person through the provision of a service. Personally, I think that if we provide care home services, it should also include diapers, so that a person who needs to change diapers would, for example, do it after two hours, and this would be included in the basic cost of the service. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that in recent weeks, the media has become like a campaign in a very intensive way to blame local governments. But it actually creates a basis for confrontation. This is not the key to solving maintenance load issues. Rather, in the local government, we expect the state to help us deal with these issues. About EUR 680 has been received by each local authority to solve one of the older problems. Now this elderly loved one comes to our office and starts blaming us: where's the 680 euro, why don't you give it to me right now so I can pay for the cost of a nursing home? Then we will be dealing quite a long time to reassure people, and only after an hour's talk, for example, will we get to how to solve this care issue, explain which services can be provided, what benefits can be paid, and how the family can cope with this situation. I also want to say that these elderly people are all our parents, grandpas, grandmothers, partners. Care management issues need to be resolved together, and this ball does not have to be rolled from one institution to another. What are the suggestions? I think that it is essential to create a system of basic funding for informal care in Estonia, i.e. the development of a suitable care insurance system in Estonia's circumstances. Where can I get extra money? One option is unemployment insurance. If you look at the funds now directed towards unemployment insurance, it seems to me that this problem is no longer so important in Estonia. This problem has been addressed and good results have been achieved. Perhaps these decisions could be reversed and raised from one place to another. This is also an opportunity for every working-age person to pay 1% of his or her salary to care insurance. Why is that necessary? Because we need to think more about society, too, because at one point we may not be well, we need someone else's help, and actually all of this, if we need help, costs something. Perhaps we would have prepared ourselves for the fact that at some point such a situation might come before me or at some point such a situation could happen to my parents. Maybe we should start in kindergarten and talk about the end of the life cycle. Then the proposal is the obligation to maintain a family member under the Family Law to share half of it with the state and local government. This means that if care exceeds a certain number of hours per week, the family would receive sufficient support from the local government and the state, i.e. access to the necessary services, if they so wished. For example, if the only option is to provide nursing home services, it is indeed the responsibility of the local government and the state together. That doesn't mean we're not trying to do this right now. We try to be flexible in the city of Tartu and find ways to cover the costs of nursing homes when the family is in such a difficult situation. What else should we talk about? For example, the need for care. In the meantime, it seems to me that the concept of disability severity itself and the decision to determine disability here is somehow an abstract approach. There are no methodological assessment solutions to determine how much a person really needs help. We often have elderly, very nice ladies in our office who say they have been assigned a deep disability, but they have not received the maximum amount of support or service. When we talk about deep trees, I think it means that a person's need for help is high, but right now these things don't connect. Maintenance needs could include low, moderate and high levels of assistance. This depends on how many hours a week you need help. What else is there to worry about? If, for example, we are dealing with elderly people with a deep disability, it is the case that the local government measures very accurately in hours, how much help is needed, when determining the personal assistant service, it is measured in minutes. It seems that the determination of the severity of the disability is a bit abstract. I already mentioned the integration of home services and home care services. In my opinion, these services are highly interlinked. Indeed, if we want people to be in a home environment for as long as possible and should not, for example, go to nursing care or in inpatient nursing care by a new name, the volume of home visits should not be limited. The fact that a person needs to be tied up four times a week is not a reason to provide hospital care, but in practice, this is what is happening now. There is certainly a need for inpatient independent nursing care, i.e. by the old name, for additional care funding so that people who are in bed with gastrostomy, with probe feed, with very extensive care needs and need to be turned and turned every two or three hours, can live in that institution for the rest of their lives, if that time is also two or three years. Automatic notification system, such as the creation of data channels between authorities. If a person with moderate or high care needs leaves the hospital, the local government and the family doctor should be informed. A portal linking information systems should be provided on the desk of the various specialists. Another idea is that the state and local authorities create opportunities for the private sector to develop new services. For example, elderly service homes have recently become a topic, where people with medium or low care needs can spend their end-of-life days. It would be possible to separate land with preferential communications to enable construction activities, etc. It is essential that minimum standards and guidelines for services are in place for each individual service. Local authorities expect them to be instructed how this advice will be done when the family with whom something very difficult has happened comes to them. In fact, this family is in quite a shock, and it is very difficult to change the whole arrangement in one moment. You need to familiarize yourself with opportunities, search for information at several authorities, local government, Social Insurance Board. Let's just say that not many of us are experts in this situation. Standards are also important in that the Social Insurance Board is now given the task of controlling the services provided by the local government, but if the standards are not accurate, what should be monitored for? Standards should be in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U93	Thank you, Maarika Kurrikoff! Time's up. If you didn't say something, you can do it by answering questions, so it's easier. Let's start with the questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U94	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this presentation. I am a Tartian myself and it was very good to listen to all these topics. But now I'm coming to the nursing home. You also said that these services should be integrated. How far has it come in Tartu? Is that what it's meant for? We're going to a nursing home on Sand Street next week, so we'll find out more. But what is your information, and what is your knowledge of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U95	There are several activities in the city of Tartu that support the provision of inpatient nursing care services. For example, we have taken on 15% of our own share, or EUR 10, if the Tartian is in nursing care, i.e. in the inpatient nursing care department. In addition, we have such agreements with the University of Tartu Hospital that we buy six integrated care-inpatient care services for our elderly people in order to solve this situation where a person is not immediately able to receive care home services. As a general rule, we receive reports of elderly people who are alone at home, who may have loved ones, on Thursday or Friday night. We have an agreement that we can direct the elderly to receive this service immediately, because this situation needs to be resolved immediately. We are trying to work with the University of Tartu Hospital in every way. At the same time, I believe that, if we have a health insurance system, this issue should be discussed with the local government, the Ministry of Social Affairs and health care providers in order to jointly find ways to ensure better access to inpatient nursing care.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U96	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U97	Honourable President! Honourable waitress, I heard you say that in recent weeks, there have been 'campaign' complaints to local governments about the subject you have been dealing with. I consider myself a quite passionate media consumer, perhaps even overly passionate and active, but I must admit I have not noticed such a campaign. Can you, I don't know, give an example or something that you'll remember first? If it's a campaign, I'm sorry! It must have been initiated by someone or for some reason. Could you explain a little bit about your sentence?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U98	I will explain the background of this sentence on the basis of the fact that, for example, when we went on Wednesday last week to send 'Smog clear', there was quite a lot of concern about the issue that local authorities, for example, are not running to participate in projects announced by the Ministry of Social Affairs. I want to point out that we're running, but every project has a stake. In applying for European Social Fund funding, it should be taken into account that the city of Tartu, for example, is already taking 600000 euros as its own contribution to the construction of the Maarja family houses. We're taking a rental house construction project, there's about as much ownership. Perhaps the argument that local authorities would not act in order to further develop their services is not correct. In addition, Postimees had an interview with the Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva, which said that it was as if the local authorities were allocated money to solve the problems of the elderly, but it was as if the local authorities were doing nothing. I think there are more examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U99	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U100	Thank you. Good waitress, I'll ask you as a practitioner. In your report, you said several times that it was difficult to find a nursing home. Is it difficult to find a nursing home when there is a special need or a place close to home, or is it difficult to find a nursing home in Estonia at all? The second part of the question: does our service in general care homes correspond to the price at large border?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U101	Let me put it this way: there is a queue even if the special need is not so great. If the special need is particularly great, if we are talking, for example, about moving demented individuals who can take care of other people and leave the nursing home, then finding a place for these people is a very difficult task. In this sense, the initiative of the Ministry of Social Affairs to create more of these places is very grateful. When it comes to quality of service, this supervision of service providers is carried out by the Social Insurance Board. But when you think about the relationship between price and quality, there are nursing homes where a very good service is provided and there are nursing homes where the quality of service may not really be in line with the price level. But with regard to supervision, what these results are, you can ask questions to the Social Insurance Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U102	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The representative of the local government was very interesting to hear such a presentation. My question is: how much do local authorities work together on social welfare issues? Will there be any new ideas and convergence of standards in this cooperation? Maybe you could talk a little bit about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U104	Yes, I dare say that local authorities work together, discuss different issues. One good example is how we interact very closely with the Tallinn Social and Health Board. We have discussed the issues of personal assistant services and the organisation of social transport services. We will learn from each other how to develop evaluation tools so that the need for assistance can be better identified. One example is Viimsi, who we are working with. I think this cooperation will work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U105	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U106	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. It was great listening to the practitioner. Thank you to all those who work hard every day! You have pointed out here the bottlenecks in the work and the problem gap that should be removed. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs also pointed out certain objectives and proposals for solutions. Some of them were overlapping, but the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs pointed out an objective such as finding voluntary organisations. Do you think that, for example, in Tartu or other municipalities, communities are prepared to take a responsible role in finding solutions to all these problems and perhaps help you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U107	I know that in Tartu, for example, the Estonian Society of Medical Students has been very active in entertaining older people who have just received inpatient nursing care in this difficult situation. They've contributed. In some cases, we have worked with Helpific. There may have been more of these cases, but I have not been directly exposed to them. A system of voluntary assistance will also emerge in a quiet manner. However, it seems to me that these issues are so difficult and that people are pretty busy with their jobs and family. Perhaps there is a person in the same family who is heavily cared for, so it is psychologically difficult to offer this voluntary help. But I hope that the voluntary support component will increase in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U108	Karin Tammemägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You drew attention to the fact that information about medicine, i.e. from doctors and family doctors, does not reach social workers. This is definitely a serious problem. But if you make this information mandatory for them, their burden will increase again, even though they are already under pressure today. Could there be a cross-use of databases or a digital solution? Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U110	Thank you for your question. All kinds of data exchange and digital solutions are certainly very welcome. But I come back to the fact that when it's done, as Dr. Kai Saks said, an expensive operation and nothing follows it, a person is sent home in a difficult situation without thinking about what services he needs to get through there for the first time, how he gets food at home, we can't talk about an increase in the burden on these workers. In fact, it is the responsibility of each employee to think more broadly, to look at the person as a whole, to bear in mind that he has a number of concerns about the fact that he has recently left the hospital. I think it's everyone's job, every specialist's job to share that information. Maybe I'm wronging the health care system, but it's too central right now that there are operations. But what happens next? No systematic consideration of how this person will cope in the future. That's my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U111	Thank you, Maarika Kurrikoff! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. We will start the negotiations, but, in calculating by heart and evaluating the time, I have decided that we are going to vote on a procedural proposal first. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Affairs Committee to extend the working time of today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 1 against, with no abstentions. Working hours have been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. During the negotiations, I shall first give the floor to the representatives of the political groups. I'm in the way of a problem. I have to give you five minutes to speak, and if you want more time, three more minutes. But the Committee on Social Affairs has requested that negotiations be held for up to five minutes. If you talk longer, I will give you extra time, but you need to know that the Commission has asked for this. Let's start the negotiations. Viktor Vassilyev, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U112	Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U113	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the Riigikogu, I take up the courage of representing all of you, members of the Riigikogu, to thank all the good people who do social work for welfare, because for a rather poor salary they do very and very hard work, which is morally difficult, which is psychologically difficult, which is physically difficult, which is health-damaging and sometimes life-threatening. When I was the district manager, my head of social welfare department was just shot by a client. So everything happens in this job. But work is absolutely necessary. Maybe at some point, it doesn't make sense, but if God gives you health and years of life, then everyone gets the time when they can assess their own skin, what this ministry is and how it works. I would like to thank Mrs Kurrikoff, who told us as a real workman, what problems there are in the system, a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who showed us what they have done and what the World Bank thinks about it, and, of course, a good colleague, Kai German, who is an associate professor of geriatrics. In many respects, it is Kai's German achievement that we are talking about this today and that in society at all recently it has been said that health and social work are two absolutely different systems that do not want to see each other as if the Berlin Wall were between them. Older people don't get the service they need, go to the wrong place, burden hospitals, haunt sick beds, prolong queues. To be honest, I've heard it many times before. I'm so sorry, but I was born a month after Stalin died, and I've seen all kinds of things. I've seen reforms and revolutions many times. I've seen the kolkhos get pushed together, then they got smaller, and then they got pushed together. I've seen the sickhouses pulled together, made big, then small and then big again. It's all been there. When I once studied as a geriatric, it was in 1978, it was also said that two systems, social welfare and medicine, work separately, one does not want to know anything about the other, a person is in one system or another, but both systems need help. They can't give it together. Even then, 40 years ago, it was said that the elderly person is in the wrong place, that he is extending the number of hospital beds, that he is extending the queues, that there are few nursing homes, that there are long queues. But they still did something back then. By the way, the integrated care system is pretty old. 500 years ago, Jaani's experience provided both care and health care. When I have recently heard how younger colleagues and younger people are not dumber than me and I am not smarter than them, I have just lived longer and seen more, says that see, Estonia is now starting to build a social welfare system, then I feel like somebody's bones under Jaan's skin are turning on another side. But at that time, in the late 1970s, there was a very good social minister... Give me three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U114	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U115	Thank you. ... Gustav Sarri, who at that time understood how things had to work. At the time, there were four parts of the city in Tallinn - cross, pots, hearts, squares - and he put the system in place that there were ten home care departments in each part of the city, ten employees in each department. That's how they started going home, doing home care. The system worked until the Soviets ran out of power. I think there were 12 home-care workers in Haaberst district a few years ago, with four times as many as the clever standards. By the way, for the second time, it was said that the systems did not work together, that something was wrong, that the patient was in the wrong place, that queues were extended, etc., when the development plan for the care network and the development plan for the hospital network were made. It was in 2000, when the exact same story was said. But then at least the maintenance network development plan was completed and not only with the local 'intellectual potential', but with the World Bank consultants. My colleague Kai Saks was also present there; the Estonian Geriatry and Gerontology Society was present there; many specialists were together. I just wrote it all together in three years, did the writing. Now we have come so far that the development plan for the care network, which was written about integrated multi-level services, should have been completed a long time ago. Over the years, at least two ministers have lied here in the Riigikogu chair that the plan has been fulfilled. Not met. This is also noted by the National Audit Office. There is a very important block missing, namely the same nursing home where a person who needs both care and health care could stay without limitation until he or she recovers or moves to a place where there is no tax office or social minister. Today he's only being held there for 30 days. Home service is inadequate. The development plan included 2,100 nursing homes, 4,200 nursing homes, and 500000 visits to home nurses and 500000 daily visits each year. These things are unfilled. That is why 85% of people in nursing homes are not supposed to be clients of nursing homes who need healthcare every day. They're supposed to be in a nursing home. All these plans and plans are there, nothing new in this world. But, yeah, I was supposed to talk about maintenance insurance. Maintenance insurance is the voice of the shouter, because it is precisely this that forces us to speak now that the system is poor, it must be repaired. The information is entirely available, but the care insurance... I also take the courage to tell the truth from this remote control: one more tax one month before the Riigikogu elections, well that is really what exceeds the news threshold. Very good! Let's still talk about how to fix our welfare system, because, once again, we all need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U116	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Above all, thank you very much to the Estonian Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics for raising the subject of care insurance and pushing it into this hall. Today, we are talking about people in need of help for a long time and those who have a heavy maintenance burden, i.e. carers and care insurance. It has to be said that the latter is not a new issue, far from it. I remember that the EGGA brought this issue to the table as early as 2000. Since I started working for the Ministry of Social Affairs in 2006, I have been asking every Minister for Social Affairs about care insurance with all the foolish consistency: whether the central government literally has the idea of taking responsibility on the matter of the elderly and how to take this responsibility off the shoulders of the family to a slightly wider area. At present, the care and coping of the elderly is literally put on the shoulders of the elderly themselves or his family. But these shoulders can't carry that weight anymore. Looking also at demographic trends and in view of the number of older people and people in need, which is increasing, it must be acknowledged that although we are living longer and longer, the number of healthy years of life does not increase, but rather decreases. So we are in a situation where we live longer, but we live longer and certainly have a need for care, often depending on our loved ones for a very long time. The system of organising long-term care in Estonia, which places family members under a disproportionate burden of care, is unfair to those in need. The system is fragmented between sectors and the financial support of the state and local government is low. Today, we have come to the situation in a combination of several laws: the Constitution, the Family Law and the Social Welfare Act. The family's responsibility for the livelihood and care of a loved one has been a pervasive principle. This solution, which Estonia has chosen, has pushed the care of the elderly, as I said, to carry essentially the person himself and his family. With this solution, we have become a loser because there are no winners here. Why? Because the prices of care and nursing care services are too much for many families. Thus, the only way out is often to give up the work of one family member, leading to family poverty and depression, both in the caretaker and in the caretaker. We are rejecting a large number of people from the labour market, an estimated 50,000 people who could be active in the labour market, but who we are forcing to perform care obligations. And then there are even fewer people in the labour market who could contribute to financing the care of the elderly. But how do we proceed? Social protection for the elderly must become a national priority, as it has certainly not been so far. We have been thinking mostly about pension policies and pensions when we talk about older people's policies, but this is a very narrow approach. If we continue to do so, we can say, as I said yesterday on this board, that Estonia is characterised by an old-fashioned approach, because we are merely dealing with the so-called replacement income. I'm asking for more time, no matter what!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U117	Despite everything, three minutes of extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U118	In order for aging to take place in a modern way, it is necessary to move towards an approach that supports so-called independence and activity, to support older people's independence and to create prevention programmes to preserve well-being. This requires both money and will, and the role of the state, the municipalities, the family and the person themselves must be played. It's important to bring the money to the system. Of course, care insurance is also one possible solution. In what form, it is, of course, a matter of discussion and agreement. However, with care insurance, we must not increase the tax burden, but we must accommodate this necessary 1% in some of the existing taxes. Perhaps one day we will also reach 21⁄2.5% of GDP in financing care services. However, in addition to increasing funding, local authorities must start all over Estonia, not only in Tartu, which is a very good and progressive example, but also in other places must contribute more to the care of the elderly. Monitoring must certainly be stepped up. However, the need for social and health services and the ability of the elderly to live independently in their homes must be further explored and evaluated. We also need to start working more on so-called service and maintenance plans. However, this requires the use of modern and common evaluation methodologies. Actually, we have them. For years, we have had, for example, interrai-HO and interrai-KO assessment methodologies. They're also used, but not enough. Or, for example, we agree that from a certain age, such as the age of 75, every elderly person has the right to a multidisciplinary service and care plan. It is necessary to make it natural for 'preventive' home visits to enable those in need to receive services on time, rather than waiting for the last border. And why not, in order to increase the influence of service users, in every local government, we should now have a larger and more capable council of "older citizens," without which the municipality should not take any step towards the situation of the elderly. This priority must come from words and from paper to action. If our aim is to move towards less and less institutional care and we offer more and more services to people in their homes or in a home-like institution, then we will certainly get to that, but we need this objective very specifically. The best place to live, even in the last period of your life, is your home, not a bleak hospital or retirement home, far from your loved ones. This is a question of the dignity of all family members, because the current situation over the years is neither fair nor dignified. If we stick to this rhetoric that, women, give birth more, that we will have more taxpayers, then it will actually lead us nowhere, because they too will grow old and need help. We should end by dividing our society into boxes where we contrast people, different groups, children and the elderly. You shouldn't do that. We must approach the issue in a holistic way. We all get old one day and hopefully, aging will be dignified for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U119	On behalf of Tiina Kangro Isamaa and Res Publica, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U120	I'll have a double.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U121	Three minutes extra time, no double.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U122	Very respectable, few audiences left in the hall! I will start by quoting to you the Prime Minister from November 2012: 'Today we are launching a project that will result, for the first time, in the emergence of a large number of people around us who are able to observe and support the subtle signs of the dementia beginning. We still have a long way to go before we can overcome this disease, but together with all of you, we can make a lot of people's lives better. ' Unfortunately, it was not the Prime Minister of Estonia, but David Cameron, the head of the British government at the time, who announced the initiative of friends of dementia, which aimed to train a million people throughout the country who could spot and assist people with dementia in their communities near home, on the street, shop or at work. If you transferred this one million to a small Estonian population, it turns out that if we had such a project, we would have trained 16000 friends of dementia today. If we had counties, there would be 1,000 people for every county who could carry this work forward and spread the knowledge. Six months earlier, Cameron had put forward his famous national call to combat dementia, which included a well-developed plan, a budget, and an action plan covering different sectors. The next move was the movement of dementia-friendly communities. There are 225 of them in England today. Yesterday I went over the new numbers: three-quarters of a year ago there were just over 100. London has announced that it will be the world's largest city of dementia-friendly and the first capital in this club by 2020. Why am I talking about Britain? In fact, even there, happiness is not in the courtyard of all people. There are constantly stories in the press about how healthcare doesn't have enough funding, how people get into trouble, both those in need of care and those in need of hospital care. But I gave this example in order to say that sometimes things in society do not happen by themselves, but they have to be hauled away. The first Estonian Social Welfare Act also stated in 1992 what the state and municipalities should do for disabled people and the elderly, so that everything would be okay. We have a wonderful country in the sense that 25 years have failed to comply with the law. Meditate on what might be the reason. Today's debate has been very interesting and meaningful, but unfortunately, some people may have the impression that we have learned something new. It's not really like that. Let me give you another example. Recently, I read somewhere in the internet that Singapore is investing heavily in start-ups that are going to develop solutions for modern and innovative care for the elderly. They also have a problem: the median age of their population is starting to reach the age of 39. They want to be prepared so that the maintenance burden does not go beyond the state's control. The business cluster of Singapore National University has launched a modern aging programme which attracts both domestic and foreign brains to develop novel and smart solutions to help reduce the burden of classical care. The same can be said about Norway, the United Kingdom mentioned above and many other countries. The question is, if we have an e-Estonia.. we are proud of the small, fun and friendly country that has gone far in e-development, why do we not have such things? Oh, yeah, actually, we do. We've had our Helpific since 2014. When the Garage48 came to Estonia for one weekend, an international IT team was convened and as a result a platform was developed to help society take care of people in need to a new level. The aim was to integrate the services provided by national, local and voluntary helpers and to make it very convenient for those in need of help to find help quickly, mobile and flexiblely through a pay phone, computer or whatever. The idea was not only to play with a fun idea, but the farther idea was that the state would also make its social money move so that it was human and that people could really use the money to buy services from there. Today, nearly four years later, the platform developed in Estonia has been introduced by quite a number of countries, but in Estonia it is chirping. There are still the same faces of Tom Rüütel and some other people in this system from the very beginning. It's not working. He has not begun to work because the state system and local governments have had no interest in using this platform, even though the platform developers and the international specialist with a very, very serious level, Zsolt Bugarszk, who had just come to Tallinn University, had an agreement with the Ministry of Social Affairs to deal with the matter on some level. It hasn't all worked. Now my time's up again, huh?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U123	Unfortunately, there are still, yes, 12 seconds, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U124	Okay. Then I'll leave everything else important unsaid, but I'll confirm that message. My message is this: we have systematically missed out on all the opportunities we have had at our fingertips in order to make major and constructive developments in the social system, which would be cost-effective and would reduce the burden that Kai Saks was talking about, which will inevitably end up in hospital for many with very intensive care. But we could put it all off and it would be cost-effective. One last thing, though. When our Prime Minister said on Saturday at his party council meeting to find 360 million extraordinary pension increases is not an impossible task for the Estonian state, that this is not a question of money, but a question of will, then I say that this is the money to create care insurance. With 360 million, we can get the result for several years so that our elderly people can be calm and their family members can also be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U125	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during today's debate and listening to the debate. The Social Democrats are very grateful to the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, who initiated a new age collection, and to the doctor, the geriatric assistant Kai German, who initiated the provision of care as such, also presenting one possible solution for the creation of care insurance. 'Less than a hundred years ago, the average life expectancy in Western countries was 40 years, now it is 80 years. And there is no end: the first person to live to 135 years of age has already been born. This is the most radical change in our society since the industrial revolution and, of course, many questions arise in this regard. " So Rudi Westendorp, one of the world's leading geriatric experts, writes in his book Living Old without feeling old, now translated into Estonian. Today in this Chamber, however, we are talking about how to live old in Estonia without fear of becoming a burden. Today's situation, where older people are afraid of aging and concern about the deterioration of family relationships, and both carers and carers are constantly feeling guilty, is certainly unsustainable given the demographic situation if nothing is done. Older people want to be independent and lead their own lives. Their desire must also be taken into account when their need for help becomes such that they can no longer cope at home. It is a matter of human dignity and human rights. Over 300,000 people of retirement age live in Estonia, one fifth of whom needs help and care to cope with everyday life. There are different estimates, but it can be said that nearly 75,000 people are involved in caring for their loved ones. A fragmented system of financing for care and healthcare often places a burden and responsibility on the shoulders of family members. The obligation to assist the family arises from the Constitution. § 27 (5) of the Constitution states that the family is obliged to care for members in need of assistance, whereas § 97 of the Family Act states that maintenance is justified by the need for other relatives in need of assistance who are unable to take care of themselves. The State's obligation to assist arises under the Constitution. § 28 (2) of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to state aid in the event of old age, disability, survivors' or deprivation, and the principles of the social state set out in § 10 of the Constitution are a general requirement for social solidarity. It follows from the above that the obligation to assist a person could be the responsibility of both his family and society through the state. There are no black and white solutions here. As the obligations to assist the state and the family are mostly mixed, the legislator should decide in which cases the family may be subject to the obligation to provide primary and basic assistance to the person, in which cases only additional obligations may be imposed on the family. It is the duty of the legislator to link family and state assistance obligations in such a way that they constitute a comprehensive system, complement each other and that no one's human dignity would be left unprotected because of the failure to comply with family and state assistance obligations. Care, old age, and poverty are often the face of a woman. Among the official carers, women are around 70%, men 30%, and women are also more than men. At the end of 2017, there were nearly 9,000 legal guardians of adult people for whom the local government paid the grant. However, how many people are not made guardian by municipalities, because the procedures for the organisation of guardianship are also very different and depend on the decisions taken by the municipalities? There's a lot of these people. Questions. How can the lives of those who care for their loved ones be eased? What can be done to ensure that the sole responsibility is not limited to those in need and to their family members? How to build a system that integrates welfare... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U127	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U128	Thank you. ... and health services and funding from different sources? These issues need to be resolved and not wait 15 years for solutions. The integrated financing of long-term care and care treatment should have started already in 2015, allowing the integrated care system financed from a common source of money to better select the most suitable services for the person and avoid the unintended and low-performance use of expensive healthcare. Social scientist Jüri Kõre has already pointed out that personal care is such a large part of Estonian welfare that it is not possible to organise the field without it. In Estonia, the treatment of family care obligations has been relatively rigid and unchangeable over three centuries. However, the economy has changed and family models have changed. Wouldn't it be high time to change the laws so that family members do not have exclusive responsibility and burden, both care and financial, but that it is shared between the parties? Eligibility should not depend on the place of residence, the amount of pension and the existence of children. It is vital for the social democrats to find a solution so that older people can age with dignity without their soul chewing on their concerns for the future. We will then take and create a system where care and health services are linked and where all responsibility is not just on the shoulders of loved ones who will soon become needy under this burden. Finally. On the eve of the World Social Work Day, which will be celebrated on 20 March, I would like to thank the social workers and the local authorities who are helping their people, looking for solutions and supporting their own carers in carrying this heavy burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U129	Please, on behalf of the Group of the Maris Lauri Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U130	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests and performers! I will try to answer the question that has been put in our debate on how to deal with older people. We talked a lot about maintenance here, which is definitely part of this subject, but I'm going to get a little bit wider. Why do I dare to do that? I've been with several people and cared for several people who have unfortunately left by now. The world's population is ageing and the population of most wealthy countries is also declining, which means that the problems of ageing are quite common all over the world. How can we ensure that older people have a decent life in a situation where working age decreases? How can this be arranged? There is no one answer to that. When we look at how the various countries have solved these things, we see a lot of techniques and solutions. Yes, certain elements recur, but there are different combinations. This means that, also in my opinion, we should not take this matter here in Estonia with such tragedy that only we would be in trouble. Everyone's in trouble. Maybe some just don't realize how serious this problem is. As a result of my economist background, I say that perhaps some very rich countries, with a very rich and generous system, will find themselves in a situation where they need to narrow down their kind system in 10 to 20 years' time, simply because of financial unsustainableness. I hope that in the course of this debate and in the course of what will surely follow it, we will find a solution and a system that is suitable for Estonia. I think the solution must be quite flexible. We need to be prepared that this solution, which may be suitable for the elderly today, may not be suitable for the elderly of the future. Perhaps we must have flexibility and willingness to change things. I enjoyed the unveiled slide of the last guest about how the need for help grows as people's health deteriorates over the years, so helping must also change. It all starts because sometimes it's hard to go to the store or it can't snow. It's a place where neighbors, close people, co-workers, friends and friends can come to help. Certainly, the situation may also turn out to require permanent care in the care of a bedridden or even a demented person. We must make sure that there are two things intertwining in this system: health services or health-related activities and social welfare issues. But we must not build a wall between them that often tends to be there. It must not be either a financial wall or a liability wall, there must be cooperation. But I come to coping with old age from another perspective. My grandmothers reached retirement age when they were 55 years old. They kept working. I never thought that if I had a retirement age, I'd pick it up and sit at home and do nothing. I think that a lot of people think the same: they want to continue their work or do a little different work, and when they can't work anymore, they just want to be socially active, to hang out with people like themselves and younger. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U131	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U132	I dare say boys and girls remain boys and girls even when they're 75 or older. These 75-year-old boys and girls give each other a lot of energy; they also have vitality and the ability to cope with diseases and situations that it seems impossible to cope with. Certainly, when we create our own system in Estonia, we must discuss the role of the various parties and their responsibilities, responsibilities and tasks. What is the responsibility of the state, the so-called central government? My intuitive feeling says that this role could be a coordinating and perhaps a standard setting role. The municipality must inevitably address more acute problems. It is important to discuss the role of the community, and I am thinking of working partners, friends, neighbours, family and loved ones, and the responsibility of the person himself. It is natural to help your loved ones, your parents. We sometimes hear older people say that they don't want to disturb and annoy young people, let them live their lives. I tell you, be consistent, they actually long for help, but they don't want to ask for help and support. Give it to them, let's be brave about it! Let these good elderly ones live their lives by helping and being by their side, discreetly at times, but at the appropriate moment, by paying attention. There has been talk about a wide range of topics. One question certainly is how to finance this system. I don't know which solution is the right one. I don't think anyone knows. If anyone dares to claim that that is exactly the case, then, forgive me, I do not believe because these claims are not fully justified. Perhaps we need to add to the third pillar an opportunity for people to make additional insurance for the future if there is a need for care. Perhaps we should consider in greater depth how personal property is taken into account, this is the same issue of real estate collateral. Yes, we know that in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu this may be possible, and unfortunately in rural areas real estate often has no value. We need to discuss these things and look for solutions. I think we will find a solution if we are not rigidly stuck in our ideas and say that only so and not otherwise. Finally, ageing is not tragic; ageing is a natural part of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U133	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U134	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, of course, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their meaningful presentations. But I remember that Mrs Kai Saks, a geriatric and gerontologist, a top expert in the field in Estonia, went to the Social Affairs Committee on these issues many years ago and has also gone later. Unfortunately, it has to be said that care for the elderly, nursing care, family care, helping the elderly in their homes, opening up care, day care for the elderly, etc., in general, geriatrics in general, has not been particularly important for national and market-liberal parties. This has not been of much interest to them, and this is also shown by the table that has been produced here some time ago, from which we see that we are one of Europe's most recent in terms of funding. This is also confirmed by the fact that one of the few sections of the Social Charter that we still have to ratify is about the livelihood of the elderly, their housing and living conditions. I am very pleased that today's coalition has once brought these issues to the table. Because isn't it strange? We have done a great deal for families with children, we have repeatedly raised subsidies, we have created a rich parental benefit system, we have already created an unemployment insurance system 15 years ago, even more than 15 years ago, we are helping people with special needs back to work, etc. But when the same person grows old and becomes helpless, let's say that the next one is no longer our business, let him see how he does. It is strange that in our country, the funding of care for the needy is really provided by law as an obligation for his family, children and grandchildren. This is a completely unknown option in Europe. Of course, children take care of their parents, but their financial situation may not make it possible. In fact, the wealth of children and grandchildren should not be at all involved. As Mrs Kai Saks emphasised here, the elderly must be treated as an independent adult person, in every sense, also financially. It's a matter of self-esteem. We should not be afraid of aging. In many countries, yes, we know there is health insurance alongside care insurance, or even better, they are together. That would really guarantee a sense of insurance for all of us. But we're in this hall together today to find the optimal solution, and we're already finding it. Actually, everything starts with home care. There's been a lot of talk about it today. There really has to be more money here, because we need both domestic help and nursing care, cleaning our homes and caring for our wounds, everything and everything. We heard today how the elderly are being cared for in an active care hospital, chronic diseases are being treated, joint prosthetics are being placed, and then the person is being brought home because there is no intermediate stage in the next phase. He's hungry, he's thirsty, he's lying down, he's not moving, and in a good way, he's back in an active treatment hospital, but in a bad way, of course, he doesn't. Active treatment day is many times more expensive than home help. Running sick and loved ones between the nursing hospital, nursing department, home and retirement home, and then again between the nursing department, it's just pathetic to look at it. We have talked so much about informal care at home, but in fact, we are quite early, and we can't even figure out how much money it costs for a loved one to stay home to take care of someone: loss of work and money, mood, depression, helplessness, incompetence. This is all a much broader chapter. It is also extremely embarrassing to note that if an old man finally arrives in a nursing home or if a place is found there, these nursing homes are still very often in need of repair, his pension cannot cover even half of the place tax on the nursing home. If children do not have this money, you really need to beg, address the municipality. I want to say that the municipalities have really done a very good job, I see it everywhere many times, but it is difficult for them too. That is why once again: we must move towards making the elderly financially independent. I really wonder how the press, and even other parties, are saying that by raising pensions, which we have announced, it is as if we were buying populist votes and wasting money, as if it were an illusion. That's a lie. I would remind you that last time we were in government, in less than two years, we raised pensions by 40%. I can say that if we hadn't done it at the time, the pensions wouldn't be as big as they are right now. Only indexation and the resulting increase in pensions can we be satisfied if our pensions are raised to be comparable to those of Europe, but we need to make an extraordinary increase more and more. Now that the average old-age pension is below the poverty line, we need to move forward. Our topic today on how to deal with older people is directly related to this. Secondly, we must take care of ourselves more jointly and severally on the shoulders of society, because in an ageing country it is inevitable. It'd be nice to know we're gonna make it for the rest of our lives, but it might not be, we might need some help. Let us help those who need our help today!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U135	Mart Helme as representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Under our rules of play, the representatives of the political groups have priority. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U136	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your meaningful presentations. Good guests! Here today, a lot has been spoken of, I mean politicians, and, in fact, little has been said. It is very easy for us, as politicians, to knock on our own conscience and everyone else's, that we must, we must, but we all know that we are great friends, but there is one enemy between us, and the enemy's name is'money'. And that's how brutal it is, the enemy's name is money. It is a beautiful saying that each municipality should feed its own cripples, but we know that it is too much for our local governments and it is too much for the local governments to have no money. We can say that the state must ensure. But the state does not guarantee, because the state also says that there is no money. We don't have the money to keep up with the health insurance system, we know it basically lives in debt. We know that our family medicine really doesn't work, it's basically become a prescription factory. We know that with informal care, we have things on a theoretical level. I know very well what I'm talking about. For the past 15 years, I have helped spend the last days of my life with a number of older people - my parents, my husband's parents, some relatives. I can say that state or local government support has been marginal. With only this support, these old people would all have rotted inside of themselves. It's a very cruel, brutal and unengulfed statement, but it would have been. The question that we can do has been a long time and is becoming increasingly acute, because society is ageing and a considerable number of our working-age population have left Estonia. They do not come back to their parents, even if their parents fail. Rather, parents will be taken where their children have gone, Finland or somewhere else, and they will find opportunities for parents to live until the end of their life. These questions are extremely acute. These issues are not solved only in this Chamber; they are resolved in society as a whole. The most important thing to achieve in society is a change in mentality. We have inherited some Soviet mentality. Then people didn't ask where the money came from. The money came from the bottomless wardrobe of the Soviet Union. Everything was state-owned, including people, and the state had to give pension money, the state had to find a way to live in a retirement home for old people without children or for those who needed care, as they were then called. It was a country. We have largely inherited this mentality that someone has to do. But there's just no "someone" anymore. This "someone" is really who? Kids. Unhappy are those people who built Communism in their own time, who did not make children, or who did not raise children in such a way that they care about them when they were old, and who are now in huge trouble. We know very well that Estonia is not rare... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U137	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U138	... these cases when an alcoholic child beats up his parent's retirement day and takes his last cent away. What kind of care are we talking about here? And who's gonna help this old man? We know very well that the hands of a social worker are short. It was mentioned here that the opportunity for old people to spend their days in a nursing home could be linked to real estate. Sorry, my penguin Uno Kaskpeit can tell you about the real estate that costs somewhere in South Estonia in the country, where all the villages are empty, where you will get EUR 10,000 for your farm. How long is this money gonna cost someone somewhere to take care of? These are very acute questions and they require honest, very honest and perhaps brutal, once again I will use this word, analysis and social debate, because there is no one solution. There is only one single solution: everyone must have children. Everyone must have children! I'm telling you honestly, I don't believe in any extra insurance. I don't believe in that. I believe, rather, that the euro will soon be devalued. Look what happened last weekend in Italy. I believe that the euro will rather be devalued. Trump is declaring a trade war, it's coming, it's hitting the world economy from unexpected angles. Bet on some kind of insurance, you know, maybe. Stupid also hopes hope is the comfort of fools, as we all know. You can't count on a man to die with his boots on, as the Westerns say. Some die, some don't die. Most of us need more or less help at one point. There was a great deal of talk here about the need for help in cleaning and shopping. It's all nothing. A serious problem is when you have a bedridden at home. And I had a bedridden home for years. We had two small children and two cared for: one blind and one completely bedridden old man. I know how hard it is, I know what it costs. This is a real critical problem, dealing with these people, and we do not have a solution to that at the moment. There are incomplete solutions, there are combined solutions, but there is no real solution. I am grateful for putting this on the agenda and for all these reviews, but we are actually at the beginning of the road and we need honesty above all. Without honesty, this issue will not be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U139	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U140	Good manager and the last ten! Do you remember when we changed Article 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice in November? It was a disgusting reality that had existed for decades that a person in a nursing home must pay ten times as much for his pampers and other resources as he is paid at home. It was a little detail, and we did it. Today we're talking about ourselves. We walk like cats around hot porridge and I don't see a real solution here. According to the European Union and OECD list, together with Greece, we are at 0.6% of GDP for the red lamp. But it would take 2%, or as the World Bank tells us in the recommendations: 2.5% to 4%. We pay dog wages to people who work in nursing homes. To live in a nursing home, you have to pay two pensions. Indeed, as Kai Saks said, these are political omissions. Yeah, we're a pathetic country here. Right now, there's a brutal reality. We have around 4,000 people in general care homes, and we have about 3,000 prisoners. The cost of living a prisoner is €600-700, and the cost of maintaining a care home is €1417. Hostilities are more than twice as expensive than the state's contribution to nursing homes. Is that normal? The normal rate would be 2% or, as the World Bank recommends, 2.5% to 4%. Right now, I'm reminding you, it's 0.6%, and with that we're 28th in 30 countries. To NATO, we contribute 2.16% and are in fourth place. We have the key, but can we use it? What's the point, arms race or caring for your own people? Do we intimidate Russia or our people, those who have worked their life and have to be in a nursing home, or their children and grandchildren, who have to give up their careers, work and whom we financially put in a difficult position? Is our goal to discourage our people? Today, on the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, we will do so. What does the World Bank say? The World Bank says that care insurance is not a good idea. Secondly, we need to find 2.5% to 4% of GDP, i.e. more than we are now at the forefront of NATO. I asked my Facebook friends late last night what to do. For now, I have over a hundred suggestions. People have responded very vividly, the subject is extremely acute. The first thing could be to raise pensions. Do you remember when Jüri Ratas came up talking about giving us a hundred euros, what kind of pork chops rose? In fact, 300 or 400 euros should be added, so the other half could be paid for the place fee. So it's not real. But what else can we do? One suggestion that repeats on my Facebook page is these nonsense and waste... Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U141	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U142	...the closure that exists now. Review today's priorities. Taxation of profit distribution. The fact that taxes don't go to Latvia. Take a loan. To put an end to this Masochistic approach that the loan is evil, although most developed countries are engaged in borrowing. The same Greek with which we are the red lanterns on this list, you remember. But not just Greece. What do we need? If you take 4,000 people in a nursing home, and multiply that number by 600, that's 2.4 million a month. If you take half of it, it's 120,000, which means you're going to need 13 to 14 million. It would take 50 million to reach 0.8% of GDP. It's gonna take 400 million to get to 2%. But for the time being, the state could pay the care workers who are working hard a normal salary, the state could do so, so that they would not get the dog pay that they currently have, the resulting serious problems. So the choice is in our hands, and we need to find a consensus to change this brutal reality. We should not discourage our people rather than discourage an evil neighbor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U143	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! The debate on a key national issue will now be concluded here. Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U144	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of local government initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the related amendment of other laws. I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U145	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to start from the beginning of the history of this draft, we must return to September 13th last year, when Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise sent a letter to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, the topic of which has been described as controlling corruption in local governments. In that letter, he asked that the following issues be considered: Firstly, a regulation should be established to ensure that property damage caused by an intentional offence by a local authority is recovered. Secondly, any form of working relationship between a person convicted of the intentional commission of certain criminal offences and a local authority should be ruled out at the time when the person's sentence applies. Thirdly, a legal clarity should be created to avoid conflicts of interest in situations where a member of a local government council acts as head of a local authority or belongs to the board of directors or councils of a local government-owned company which it is required to supervise as a member of a local government council. The terms of reference governing service missions or other personal rights of members of urban and rural municipalities should also be specified. Predictably, I say that this is the easiest part of it, that is what we were able to do just and quickly. Finally, establish the requirements for independent auditing of the local authority. This was the motivating proposal that was submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs began to deal with this issue. On the last point, which concerns auditing, I can say in advance, that we, together here on 23 January 2018, amended the Law on the financial management of the local authority. We received this amendment as follows: before approving the annual report at the council, the audit committee will examine the economic report submitted to the council and hear it from the auditor who audited it, who will explain the main findings made in the course of the audit and the content of the irregularities detected, and then the audit committee will draw up a written report to the council, etc. Rather, this last point has turned into a draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and we have all supported it. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs met for the first time to discuss the letter of the Chancellor of Justice on 20 November 2017 and we agreed that this debate should be continued in the Commission. The officials of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gradually began to seek legal solutions to the problems raised. On 18 December 2017, we were already in a situation where we had to propose initial solutions and possible options. We found it possible to move forward in such a way as to initiate the draft at the beginning of the session, in January. That is how, on Monday, 8 January 2018, we arrived at the vote on the proposal to initiate the draft. It was supported by 7 members of the Commission, against Jüri Adams. It has been said here that this is a bill to curb corruption. The rhetorical use of such words can still be practiced, but in order to be pure in law, it must be said that the draft law amending the law on the organisation of local government and the other laws relating thereto is a draft law amending it before you. There's no law of restraint here, I'll tell you in case you google it or start looking. Now I'm going to introduce these changes. The first amendment concerns the reconciliation of agencies. On a proposal from the initiators, the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Council may not be the head of a company, foundation or non-profit organisation under the same authority or influence of the city, or a member of the management board, or the head or deputy manager of an institution administered by the same municipality or city administration. This is certainly a point that will also give rise to debate during the further procedure for this draft. If you simply describe this debate or these possibilities, you can say that there is a situation today that, in other words, a member of the council will be obliged to withdraw if he feels that he is somehow involved in this matter and should not be involved in this decision-making debate. As a new member of Rakvere City Council, I can say that it has already had to be implemented on a massive scale, because people are also active in sports or cultural activities or social activities during off-duty periods, and there is still a financial separation that may touch the NGO that you are involved in or where you put on posters. On the other side of this possible solution, this is a situation where, in the case of all the members of the council, membership of the council would be excluded. If you look at practices in other countries, it turns out that there is also such practice. As initiators, we have considered it disproportionate that it concerns all the members of the council. If, now, to come back to this debate to be able to reduce itself, indeed, this is a 'opportunity', the initiators of the draft have approached this logic that, in addition to the fact that there are council meetings and discussions on these points, the Chairman of the Council and the Vice-Chairperson are persons with a greater influence than simply chairing the meeting. But we can discuss this when there are amendments. In the case of the Committee on Review, this is the same restriction, but it would not only concern the chairman or vice-chairman of the Committee on Review, but also other members, as there is a much greater chance that it could also be a matter of supervision over the body which it manages. It can't be that we eat, we drink, we get the dishes ourselves. There is no debate on this point either. The situation of local government committees is, of course, different: all members of the audit committee must be elected from among the members of the council, but in other committees only the chairman and vice-chairman must be members of the council, and the other members of the committee may simply be active persons on a specific list or political party who want to participate in local affairs. We have also specified the procedure for electing the chairmen and vice-chairmen of committees so that the problems that have arisen since the local elections can also be resolved. For example, if the votes are divided equally, the chairman would still be elected. In that case, the solution is to cast lots. The second issue concerns the fulfilment of a public task. We are proposing to amend the anti-corruption law. We propose this wording: 'The authority of a state or local government entity must ensure that, on its behalf, on its mission or under its supervision, a public official who has been convicted of a criminal offence committed intentionally in connection with the abuse of professional or professional rights or the violation of official duties, as well as fraud, mistrust, bribery or mediation, power trading, crimes against public trust or economic crime. This paragraph shall not apply to officials performing public functions on the basis of an election. ' So that the state or local government authorities themselves have a duty of care to ensure that people who have not been punished do not perform public duties during this period. As you know, for example, if you have also served your sentence of imprisonment, that does not mean that the sentence has been extinguished. The sentence may still be in force in the register, depending on how the legislator has appointed, for two or three years, relating to the severity of the crime. In my speech, I mentioned that I was currently missing it, that in the Local Government Organisation Act we also regulated the dispatch of the mayor or mayor and a member of the government to a service mission. The situation proposed here is very simple: the mayor or mayor of the municipality and his replacement, for example, when it comes to leave, the chairman of the council decides to send him to the service mission. The municipality or mayor decides to send a member of the municipality or city government to a service mission. The mission expenses of a parish elder or mayor and a member of the government shall be reimbursed under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Civil Service Act. Now this point, which concerns the recovery of property damage caused by a deliberate offence by a municipal official. Our proposal is to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure so that, if the local authority does not recover the damage, the prosecutor's office would be the authority entitled to bring a civil action or a public claim. So this applies not only to local authorities but also to other institutions. We had a discussion about who it would really be if the local government or this public authority did not act. However, we have found that there is no point in drawing up any new institutions here that the prosecutor's office could be a sensible solution here. But indeed, it requires a change in the criminal procedure code. From December to this day, time has progressed considerably and there have also been developments. It is proposed by the Ministry of Justice that the section on the Code of Criminal Procedure be dealt with by the Legal Affairs Committee, so that this part should be separated from this draft. I think that this is a sensible and constructive proposal. I am, on the basis of my long-standing political experience, a pessimist in the matter of whether this issue can be dealt with in the course of the review of criminal proceedings. As we know, there is little time until the elections, and the reviews are such long processes. Perhaps the Committee on Legal Affairs, if we have such a change during the procedure, will also be able to give its substance and momentum to this draft in such a way that these laws are more or less at the same time ready for adoption here, but we can discuss it here with our colleague. It is proposed that this law enter into force on 1 January 2019. There are prerequisites for this. On 19 February 2018, we discussed sending this draft to first reading. In the course of the debate, in addition to this issue of changes in criminal proceedings, with the help of the Ministry of Justice, we have found further points of decision and remarks where improvements should certainly be made. For example, if the Chairman of the Council really considers that he wants to continue as Chairman of the Council, rather than head of a local government foundation or non-profit association or institution, it may not be realistic to get rid of that other office within three days, because it requires registrations and actually takes more time. We must be guided by the specific laws that are relevant. There is one thing about the government's position that we do not deal with in the draft, and I still cannot tell you whether there is some kind of common understanding in this regard. This concerns the mandatory internal audit in the local government. There are examples if these internal auditors exist, but should we also legitimise it, it wants a bit of a separate debate. But where did this reasoning come from? The mandatory nature of internal audit is set at the 'Anti-corruption strategy 2008-2012' and this objective has not been met to this day. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out that if we in the Riigikogu have the custom that the benefits concerning the Riigikogu itself we establish for the next composition, perhaps something similar could apply to local government bodies, so that the previous council would establish a compensation regime for the next council. But this is the place for further discussions. When we came to the procedural decisions, at that meeting on 19 February, we decided that this draft should be discussed today, on 6 March 2018. That's what we're doing. The proposal is to stop reading this draft as we initiated it is logical that we are interested in further processing this draft and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 20 March. I won the Commission waitress competition. Since there are two in one, and the initiator is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, one person, i.e. me, is also the rapporteur, both the initiator and the rapporteur of the Commission. So all the questions you have to ask me, that's all you've got. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U146	The first of these is the question, Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U147	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. To be honest, this bill raises a lot of questions. The first and perhaps the greatest story is that life shows that it is those people who are the managers of companies, foundations, non-profit organisations, deputies of the manager and leaders of the municipal or city authorities that are, let's say, political forces in all local governments. I think the law turns them off like a little bit from the political life of the local government. Here's the question. On the one hand, I am convinced that with this we will lose the quality of the council's decisions, but on the other, I would like to hear your comment on how you think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U148	Thanks! How am I supposed to think? I guess we've proposed the solution to how I think about building a church in the middle of a village. We have considered it disproportionate, as I said, if all the members of the council were under this ban and could not be heads of institutions. If you look at the real situation in Estonia as regards the council presidents and vice-presidents and this overlap, there are examples of this kind, it concerns either the head of the school, the head of the community house or the manager of the museum. However, I dare say that no local government council will be left without a chairman or vice-chair if the head of the school does not chair it, which does not mean that the head of the school may not be a member of the council, but it is also natural that he is not a member of the audit committee in that case. So there are opportunities to engage in politics. [[A voice from the hall.]] The Chairman of the Audit Committee cannot, in the same way, be the head of this body, and that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U149	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U150	Honourable waitress! Unlike the previous questioner, I find it quite tragic that there are so many people involved in local politics who are affected by this conflict of interest. Perhaps somewhere there is a shortage of political material made up of independent people. But did the Commission also have any discussion or do there be any figures on how many council members, who are the leaders of the agencies, etc., will be affected by such a restriction on incompetence of agencies? Was there a theoretical question in the debate that would happen if the council no longer had those independent ambassadors who could be chairman of the council, vice-chairman or member of the audit committee? Is such a situation even possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U151	It seems that this is not a real-life problem, in the sense that the council could not function. In the old days, the example of Piirissaare was given that there is no small council, no small island and no people at all, and now Ruhnu is an extreme example of this. I checked Ruhnu's council list. It seems to me that Ruhnu, too, can continue to hold the council even when this law enters into force. The so-called Jaak Aab side of the Ministry of Finance has tried to make an Excel table after the elections about how these overlaps are. Very simplistically, there are some examples of the council presidents, and there are some examples of the vice-chairmen of the council, and there are also examples of the chairmen of the audit committee. But according to the spy that I have, this scraper or memo can be significantly shortened, because there are now also foundations and non-profit institutions that are not necessarily at all under the management or influence of the local government, some cases that are all over Estonia, some cases that are found in each county, I think, can be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U152	Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U153	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! The fight against power trading is always fascinating, interesting and very necessary. But it seems to me that this bill may remain formalistic. If we make such a restriction that the head of the school cannot be the chairman of the council, but can be a member of the council and can be, for example, a member of the budget committee, he is a simple member or chairman of the council, both having one vote anyway. For example, if a teacher is in a council, he also stands by for his school and the whole educational landscape to do very well in this municipality. Rather, I am interested in a purely practical aspect. How many cases are known when the headmaster has been the chairman of the council, has only taken care of his school, has not looked at the whole picture of the local government and has created a risk of corruption? Do we have any empirical material that we can tell the public today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U154	Thanks! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not carried out such research in this depth. I can give an example of only one possible construction that, if, for example, the Chairman of the Council is himself the head of the upper secondary school, the process of obtaining a state secondary school may have a different weight than in other cases. It is based on the logic that the chairman and vice-chairman of the council, above all, is the chairman of the community of a person who does not have only one vote in a particular session. We have offered you a solution where the work of the council would still be possible. Perhaps it is not right to talk so much about curbing corruption as about preventing potential conflicts of interest. I'm not such a magic wand person at all, I'm on the ground with two legs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U155	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U156	Good manager! Good waitress! Didn't you discuss whether, for example, the heads of a municipal agency should even apply for a council? Take, for example, a case like this when it is necessary to assign a salary to a parish elder. Are they supposed to be detaching themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U157	Thanks! No, there was no such debate that the heads of the agencies should not belong at all, otherwise we would have proposed this interim solution. Where and how, for example, this is a conflict of interest in this case, that is a good question. Actually, it does exist. What is not in this bill today, but what the Government of the Republic or the Ministry of Justice has proposed is that benefits such as these, why not the salary of the parish elder, be decided by the previous council for the next parish elder before the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U158	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U159	Thank you. Frankly, the possibilities of the prosecutor's office were broadened, but I do not understand why institutions such as the police or the kapo or the Auditor General or other people with such a name do not appear on this list. But I think that if I and you, Mr Pomerants, are elected to the council, we have the opportunity to vote in secret, and we have to vote in secret for the chairman of the council, then we can secretly not elect the chairman of the council. So what happens next? Could you comment on this precedent?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U160	This has nothing to do with the election of the Chairman of the Council. Every member of the council can still have one vote in a secret ballot. I don't think there's any reduction in duty here, even if you're an employee of this municipality or city, for example. Now, why there is no kapo in the theory of kapo can be proposed as a public controller or anyone else in the form of this public claim. This does not concern Kapo, but in the case of others, participation in criminal proceedings would be an entirely new area. After all, the prosecutor's office is bound to be involved in criminal matters; it would be an additional task for them. But it is certainly the least cost and most appropriate solution for the country. The prosecutor's office itself acknowledges this, although it says that a number of changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure should be made, but they also acknowledge that this is a sensible solution. There is always a question of resource, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U161	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U162	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question concerns § 2 Amendment of the Anti-Corruption Act. It excludes that a person with a valid "professional penalty" is employed as an official and at the end of that provision is a sentence: 'This paragraph shall not apply to officials performing a public function on the basis of an election. ' I understand that it is not possible to cancel the election result in this way by law. However, as far as I am aware, we have had a draft law at first reading that tries to take the opportunity to stand as a candidate. Are you looking at these approaches in conjunction with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and what about this initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U163	Thanks! Indeed, it has also caused questions and confusion in people as to how an official, or not a councilman, has such a restriction. There are also examples of council members in Estonia who still have a valid sentence and who can still enjoy the love of the people. Indeed, such a distinction exists in today's laws. As regards the processing of different laws, their association, etc., I, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have not ruled this out. If we start preparing for second reading, we can see if this principle can actually be achieved. So let's see what life brings us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U164	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U165	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! How can these cases be dealt with? We know that a document has been signed for a declaration of intent. When the Chairman of the Council makes a declaration of objection, it is digitally signed, obviously not able to make an entry in the Commercial Register so quickly, but the Council will process this decision and after that, the Chairman will cancel his declaration of intent on whether such a legal aspect is also intended for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U166	Thanks! You mean a situation where there's some kind of "trickle" going on that I decided for a moment that I wouldn't be in charge of the council in the future. No, we assume by creating this whole law that people are good, they're on the council to develop the local community, and they do as few tricks as possible. This example, I think, would also be quite extreme in the practice of Estonian local government in the world of tricks. I dare hope that such a case will never occur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U167	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U168	Respectable waitress! I'm gonna get a little off this text, use your expertise to satisfy my curiosity. We have wisely decided in this hall that if a member of the Riigikogu is the chairman of a local government council, he will not be paid there. If he is a member of the board of directors of a local government company, those members of the board of directors of the company are paid a fee, can he receive that fee?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U169	I think there might be a law. But what I'm trying to say is that I think it's a very personal opinion of me when the Riigikogu dealt with the law of two chairs and came to the conclusion that a member of the Riigikogu could not be paid if he was also a member of the local council, for participating in the work of the council, then I think this is unequal treatment. Not because the question is about money, whether or not I get 35 euros every month as a member of the Rakvere Council, but I ask what is the difference if one person runs the company all day and another member of the Riigikogu commission for example, and in one case there is a fee for participating in the work of the council, but this is not the case with a member of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, there was some sort of compromise being sought here to justify the work of a member of the Riigikogu on the council. I can't imagine that the day will come when it will be so-called "dimmed back," but, from the point of view of equal treatment, I do not think this is the right situation. Personally, I do not complain, I continue to work for the benefit of my people at the Rakvere Council without additional fees. I know that myself, I can say, now that I'm starting to think that foundations and non-profits, if there's a management fee, it's legal. For example, the Minister cannot have it. I have run Rakvere Museums as a minister and without being a minister, in one case it is right, in the other case it is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-06_U170	Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. I will open negotiations, at least at the level of registration of this possibility. There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 574. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 20 March. We'll meet tomorrow at 1:00 in this hall. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 1.58 p.m.
