ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 37 members of the Riigikogu are currently present in Question Time. Among the members of the Government of the Republic is the Minister of Culture Indrek Saar, Prime Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U2	The first question is for the Minister for Culture, Indrek Saare, who is responsible for the Prime Minister's duties. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! It turned out that the Ministers of Culture of the three Baltic States decided to meet in Venice. Since it's Question Time, maybe you can share information on why it was decided to go so far from home and what happened there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U4	Thank you, good questioner! In Venice, the world's most famous event in the field of architecture, called the architecture biennale, takes place. Just as there is an art biennaal over a year, there is an architectural biennaal every two years. Estonia has been a guest and participant since 2000 and we have always been out with our pavilion. In this remarkable anniversary year, it would not have been right if Estonia had not participated in it. The architecture biennale is one of those places where people from all over the world get together, exchange experiences and ideas and talk about the trends that exist in society. Estonia has always had a lesson to learn from it, and I hope that others will also have to learn from Estonia from time to time. As we pointed out at this architectural biennial, there are a great many universal issues that concern us, our neighbours or the wider world, due to demographic trends linked to public space and its formation. Indeed, the Baltic countries have met traditionally there. The fact that the Minister opens a national pavilion is usually included in the representation of the state. Ministers exchange information on both architectural and cultural issues in general. As far as this event is concerned, I am very pleased that apart from our usual pavilion, which was naturally a bit jubilee-sharp, we were also out in the design exhibition. It was a first time and received a lot of positive responses. Designers sold a lot of their products and we also received new contacts. In addition, the young architects of the architecture bureau PART, who are engaged in the cultivation of the Estonian national construction tradition...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U5	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U6	... or wooden buildings, were also represented by their own exhibition.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U7	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! From what I hear, or as the information initially came to the public, there is an attempt to get together and hold a lot of meetings. You also had a small delegation, maybe six members, as you can read in the media. You may be talking about the benefits of the meetings there and the experiences that have been shared, because you said that it has already become a tradition and must be visited there. What do you learn from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U9	When we talk about what there is to learn from architecture, I have already pointed out that there are some topics that we share with our neighbours or, more broadly, with other countries in the world. Italy's exposure, for example, dealt with small-town issues, by the inevitably shrinking of small towns and this is also a very topical issue for Estonia. So are the Irish. You have certainly heard of the 'Estonian Republic 100' good public space initiative, in which I had the honour of opening Tõrva City Square this year on the anniversary of our country. In the near future, these city squares will be opened even more and the heart of small towns will be fixed. The Irish, for example, have a similar situation going on and we have experience with them. The Latvians and Romanians, for example, dealt with the panel architecture once again a topical issue for us, because we need to think about what will become of it in the future and what our possible solutions will be, and see what our neighbours are planning to do. Good public space is one of the prerequisites of modern living. If we want our people to be able to organise their lives rationally so that it is of the highest quality possible, then it will inevitably have to be dealt with consciously. It is said by Winston Churchill, by the way, that first we design our houses and then the houses begin to design us. I am absolutely in agreement with that, and I am sure you will agree. We need to be very aware of what we are really encouraging when we build one thing or another, create one thing or another, design our environment in terms of architecture, and understand what its long-term consequence is. These issues were, of course, all under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U10	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U11	Next, the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, will answer Mr Pevkur's question. Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U12	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of Justice, there's a bit of a problem. If I look at what is happening to us recently, there is a personal data protection law in the proceedings of the Riigikogu that is being pushed through with a turbo procedure, although it was known at least two years in advance that the Data Protection Regulation will enter into force on 25 May 2018. You also clearly went against the Constitution with the church treasury. And right now, I see that you have made the point of individual complaints without a coordination ring or at least without a VTK. How do you feel about this situation? I would rather ask this question: have you received advice from your officials that your thoughts are contrary to either the Constitution and the current legal order, or have you personally given people orders that might conflict with the Constitution and the applicable law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U13	Thank you, good questioner, for such a cluster question. I can respond unambiguously, of course, in the eyes of the distinguished representatives of the High House. I have not given any unconstitutional guidelines, on the contrary, it is the duty of the Ministry of Justice to protect and develop legal clarity and national values in the legal order in force. On specific issues. Indeed, the European Data Protection Regulation is directly applicable. It is true that 7 out of 28 Member States have also made possible optional changes to their national legal order by 25 May. In Estonia, too, this issue is being dealt with. Both the drafting of the concept and the coordination with stakeholders have been substantial, given the scope of the range of issues, but I am sure that Parliament will reach a reasonable choice without stretching. As far as the issue of individual complaints is concerned, the Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft law to this effect on the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court and it has passed the phase of planned development according to the procedure. On the issue of church funds, in the present case, on this draft law, which is pending in Parliament, as well as on possible legal choices, the Ministry of Justice has, of course, given advice to the Ministry of Finance and, again, in terms of the protection of the interests of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U14	Hanno Pevkur, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U15	Thank you! Well, I find it very difficult to imagine, knowing how good and good people work at the Ministry of Justice or also at the State Chancellery, for example, that they did not pay your attention to the fact that the case of church money in this form is contrary to the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice has now drawn attention to this. It will be on your conscience whether you listened to them or not, and what your guidance was whether it was legal or not. But when I come back to the Data Protection Act, I will ask you a nuance, which may have been overlooked, concerning the information disclosed in the press. The current law, the Personal Data Protection Act, provides that personal data are protected. We still protect personal data and can only be published in the overriding public interest. Now you have chosen the path of eliminating obesity and leaving only the public interest. Can you explain what such an understanding is that the protection of personal data is getting lighter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U16	Thank you. As regards the allocation of funds to churches, the decision that the government was considering and making last year, perhaps in December, was taken by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and the State Chancellery, which took the view that this was certainly in line with the law in force. While the Chancellor of Justice pointed this out, the government discussed this issue and found it more rational in the interests of legal clarity rather than keeping the matter in the air in a possible legal dispute at the level of court proceedings to strengthen this position. In this regard, Parliament must also consider this matter. As regards the media interest and the processing of data without the consent of the data subject, we need to understand that the European Data Protection Regulation provides for an exception as a very clear deliberate choice here. Member States shall, without the consent of the data subject, provide for the personal data to be processed independently for reasons of journalistic interest. I attach importance to freedom of the press and its protection, which is why this amendment has also been introduced. Of course, the press has its own clearly defined framework for processing personal data without the consent of the data subject. I think that this was the starting point for the government to put forward such a draft law in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U17	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Justice! I will take advantage of the subject of legislation and ask a question. This morning, a troubled person called and complained about the concerns about the minimum maintenance. You have also expressed, as Minister of Justice, your willingness to amend certain laws concerning the regulation of maintenance and its arrangements in a more flexible way. The Ministry of Justice has previously been approached by judges. Can you tell me how far the discussions on this subject are? Is it possible to expect an amendment to § 101 of the Family Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U19	Mr President, thank you for this important problem. I can assure you that the Ministry of Justice has led the Government of the Republic to make a political choice by means of a package of proposals which provides for the linking of maintenance with income and dependants. This system is based on a German analogous model. For us, there was certainly one incentive to turn to practitioners, i.e. judges, in addition to people's concerns. The Government of the Republic fully supported our proposals. On this basis, the Ministry of Justice has started to develop legislative amendments and I hope to protect them before the High Chamber at the beginning of the next parliamentary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U20	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U21	Now the Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm answers and asks Artur Talvik. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U22	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! Last year we had cases of bee deaths resulting from misused agricultural poisons, as the investigation showed. What have you done now for almost a year to make sure that such poisonings end in Estonia and that less poisons are used in agriculture at all, not only in agriculture, but also on roads, railways, etc.? I know you've called round tables and taken some measures. What, though, are the concrete results of the actions you have done?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U23	Thank you. Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this good question. Indeed, last year, there were some cases where bee families died because they did not use the right plant protection product. 'Murk' is not quite the right word, in agriculture we use plant protection products. Very important conclusions have been drawn from this. The farmer who used the wrong plant protection product, which killed the bees, reached an out - of - court agreement with the owner of the bee family and compensated him for his damage. Since this incident, we have taken a very resolute view of this issue and there have been very many consultations between beekeepers and farmers. Farmers have confirmed that no colony of bees should be killed this year because of their guilt. This is the mutual agreement and cooperation between farmers and beekeepers. It is not right to contrast them because they are actually allies, as even a farmer cannot cope without bee families. Surely it is now forbidden to squirt during flowering. You can only spray from 22:00 to 5:00 a.m. in the evening when bees don't fly. Estonia also supported the ban on neonicotinoids that are harmful to bees in their open-air education, and we voted in favour of banning them in the European Union. So quite important steps have been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U24	Arthur Talvik, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U25	Yeah, well, maybe farmers are, to a large extent, squirting correctly, but there are other offenders, not just among farmers. From this spring there are examples where some spruce growers have spruced their surroundings, and the Road Administration is still spraying a show around bus stops and along the highways. What have you done about it? I understand the farmers have been seated together. But what about all the other sprayers and poisoners who really have nothing to do with agriculture?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U26	Thank you. Representatives of Estonian Railways and others who deal with plant protection products have also sat at this table. Plant protection products will only be placed on the market if they are approved by the European Commission or the EFSA because they will be assessed in a very thorough manner, all kinds of studies will be carried out. With regard to glyphosate and spraying around road signs, bridges, etc., the Road Administration's awareness has also increased; they use it minimally. A place where it is certainly not possible to rule out spraying is railway dams, because no natural and environmentally friendly means have been found to do so. However, scientists have confirmed that glyphosate has a minimal effect on human health, and this should be believed. All sprays pass through a very dense investigational sieve. And the decisions which plant protection products are allowed on the market are not made by Estonia or by any Member State itself, but are made at European Union level. I say that there is a need to raise awareness among people and businesses so that it is used minimally and more in terms of mowing, trimming and, in some cases, grass. A lot of people in their gardens don't use plant protection products anymore anyway, and I think they're doing the right thing. However, according to scientists, this threat, which would directly threaten human health and be somehow related to the development of cancer, does not exist. I'm not trying to be smarter than scientists, either.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U27	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U28	The Prime Minister's role as Minister of Culture, Indrek Saar, now answers the question posed by Jaak Madison. Please, Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U29	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Culture in the role of Prime Minister! Since Mr Ratas is not here today, I considered it appropriate to ask you a question as a substitute Prime Minister here. About three weeks ago, the issue of the VAT rate on medicines was raised more topically in society. According to the new minister, Mrs Sikkut, the current government does not consider it necessary to address this issue at all, and she personally felt that there was no need to discuss it in the government either. As we know, before our accession to the European Union, the rate of VAT on medicines was zero percent, when we joined, it rose to 5%, and in 2009, when the overall rate of VAT on medicines increased to 20%, the rate of VAT on medicines almost doubled, from 5% to 9%. This increase must have been temporary, only because of the economic crisis. For what reason does the current government not see the need to revisit this issue for a long time after the end of the economic crisis and to reduce the VAT rate to its former level?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U30	Thank you very much for this question. In my opinion, this is a very topical question; its topicality has not disappeared over the years. If we now look at a slightly wider picture and what the political convictions of the Estonian political parties are, then the Social Democrats are certainly those who are willing to discuss this issue. I do not recall that my good colleague Riina Sikkut, Minister for Health and Labour, would have ruled out a debate on this issue. I think it's the other way around. The Social Democrats have always stood in favour of justified tax exemptions, but we have had very fundamentally different views on this subject with a party with which you often have a rather large global-view common ground. This party has been in government for the longest time, a Reform Party that has done everything in its power to eliminate any VAT distinction. We can go back in this history and recall a great many initiatives by the Reform Party on this issue. If you referred to the fact that VAT rates have increased at some point in time, it is their desire and pressure that have mostly been behind this. The Social Democrats have done all they can to protect justified tax exemptions, including the preservation of the VAT exemption. When, during the recession, the social democrats were reluctant to make cuts in the state budget and to look for additional revenues and to harmonise all VAT rates, so we now have a 9% VAT rate on medicines, as for several other goods or services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U31	Jaak Madison, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U32	Thank you. In the interests of the accuracy of the Steinogram, I must say that Mrs Sikkut, when interviewing national broadcasting, said very clearly that she did not intend to bring this issue to the table of the government, because she believes that Estonia's great strength is already rooted in a uniform VAT system and that it is unjustified to grant derogations at the moment. About that was what he said and what he thought. So, it doesn't add up to the message you're sending now, which in itself is sympathetic to me. As far as the Reform Party is concerned, they have been away from the government for a year and a half, and now there is a new government, a new prime minister party, where you are also a coalition partner. The Reform Party did so, the second and the third, and partly we share a common role with them, but at the same time we have a great deal of disagreements, such as helping the weakest and the weakest in society, which also includes the widest possible availability of medicines to the population. Perhaps my question is this: will the subject of reducing the VAT rate on medicines be discussed again within nine months of the next elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U33	Thank you. I think that, as the elections have long begun, the signs of how different political forces behave and certainly the taxes will become the subject of these elections, in nine months, among other things, we will talk about the VAT rate on medicines that you have raised and whether it should fall, whether the medicines should be exempt from VAT at all or how it should be. I would like to remind you that the current government, if I am wrong now, will be able to correct me immediately, however, to turn around one increase in VAT, namely the VAT rate of accommodation facilities, which the Reform Party once again wished for. The Social Democrats also held it back in the previous government coalition, and the current government decided to cancel this increase altogether. I understand my colleagues confirm that my memory does not deceive me. In other words, when it comes to tax differences, the government coalition has made an important decision on this issue, which concerns the competitiveness of the Estonian tourism sector. As far as VAT on medicinal products is concerned, I think it is appropriate to ask whether it is the most sensible way in which it is regulated and the current rate. Of course, we must bear in mind that such changes entail certain costs. As far as I know, i.e. on the basis of the data given to me, we are talking about the EUR 30 million of the circa in the case of the abolition of the VAT rate on medicines. The Riigikogu is, of course, able to initiate this topic during the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U34	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Culture in his duties as Prime Minister. I am very sorry, but my question goes a little off the table. As we know, we have a lot of charity funds that collect money to pay off medicines in very expensive cases, if the Health Insurance Fund, for example, cannot do this, be it the Cancer Treatment Fund Gifted Life, Children's Hospital Support Fund or Cancer Association, that list is actually quite long. My question is whether you consider it fair and reasonable that we are going to pay more taxes on the money collected from it. Of course, it is possible for a private individual to get a certain amount of money back from his donations by filing a tax return, but the sums paid to the State of Gifted Life, for example, are quite large. Do you consider it justified, reasonable and fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U36	Thank you. I think that is a very pertinent question. Thanks for that. I would certainly like to congratulate all the organisations that you mentioned and many others who are involved in the prevention and mitigation or treatment of diseases. I think that these are people with a very high sense of mission, who often contribute a significant part of their energy, time and resources to make life in Estonia better in order to alleviate or prevent people's health problems. The work of these people definitely needs recognition. With regard to the taxation of supplies, medicines and services acquired for donations, this must, of course, be discussed. In the case of VAT, the law does not give us the opportunity to make distinctions for a particular organisation. Then it has to be a wider distinction, we have to be able to define who it applies to. In this sense, it would, of course, be the easiest thing to do when we talk about VAT, to abolish VAT on medicines. That would be the way this problem would have been solved more broadly, and I think it is definitely worth considering. However, as far as taxation of donations is concerned, I have a slightly different view from that which has generally developed up to now. Because I have to say about my field that, unfortunately, I have been trying to explain to the Ministry of Finance for a long time now what some of my predecessors have been trying to explain. For example, those people who donate Estonian culture to the right of the Estonian language to move up, I stress that it is precisely to the right of the language to move up, because the biggest donations to the Cultural Endowment of Estonia have just come to create translation programs, as if they are penalized by income tax. I cannot agree with the Ministry of Finance, just as many of my predecessors have not received, on the subject that there are nonsense about these donors to further tax. I hope you will help, and we will come to a sensible solution in this one day too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U37	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U38	The Prime Minister's role as Minister of Culture now answers the question posed by Laine Randjärv. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U39	Thank you. I ask a question to the Minister of Culture, one of my favourite topics is the process of singing and dancing and this movement. We've talked a lot about this in this hall. On 1 June, the Choir Leaders' Association will meet at a general meeting, where the issues of pay will once again be on the agenda. We have also met with the officials of the Ministry of Education and Research to find solutions for music teachers, where things move. My question is to the Ministry of Culture. Have you come to see the register and the possibilities that the Ministry of Culture could do? Local authorities are an issue of their own; we will certainly address them separately. But what has the Ministry of Culture done to solve the problems and current bottlenecks of supervisors?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U40	Thank you for this question. Like you, I also think that this is a very important issue. My priority as Minister for Culture has been to ensure decent pay for those people who are committed to maintaining our national traditions, as is the wording of your question. These are the people who work in the cultural field. Of course, what we are particularly concerned about is the movement of song and dance. The Estonian Song and Dance Party Foundation, the Choir Leaders' Association and the ERRS have reached the result with us: we have put together a comprehensive survey project. So, as we have discussed in previous discussions, we need to get the best possible data on which model employment contracts are used, how this living income is actually combined between a number of activities and what choir leaders, folk dance supervisors and orchestra leaders are actually doing. As there are many options, our knowledge of what is in use, what is real, what is real, what is people's incomes and burdens and where there are bottlenecks is far from perfect. In short, we would like to give final coordination in the coming days to order this study, which will be completed in cooperation with Praxis. The study will be carried out by ELTSA and should be completed by the end of this year at the latest, with the first deadline in the autumn. Then we will have much better data on which to proceed constructively.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U41	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U42	Thank you for that answer. I am going to the other side of my question, because one thing is people's wages, the other is infrastructure. At the moment, the themes of the renovation of Kalev Central Stadium, let's say, are upstairs. Some time ago, you signed a contract with Brigadier General Kili and Mayor Taavi Asa, so this is happening. Now, however, there is such an incomprehensible ambiguity that things did not work out as planned by Sten Veidebaum of the Song and Dance Party SA. So what exactly happened, and where did this initial money come from? So how are things finally going?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U43	The money originally planned hasn't gotten anywhere, there's money. Dear colleague, I can comfort you in this regard and encourage you to look forward to the XX dance that will take place next year. Yes, people make plans, the gods laugh, they say that. In other words, the initial project of the Kalevi Sports Society was multi-stage and required the mobilisation of several tens of million private investors. For us, however, it was clear at one point and the Kalevi Sports Society also admitted that they would not be able to do this project on the scale they originally planned. With regard to the agreement between the state and the city, we have always been prepared to move on with this matter. Unfortunately, it was no longer possible to do so according to the original plans, so we have now decided to do the maximum that can be done in the remaining time, and do so without questioning whether or not the construction works will be completed, and we do not have to start looking for a new place for the dance at the last moment. Since it has been the wish of the dance people that the party will definitely take place at Kalev Stadium and that it can be fixed to the fullest extent, we will do as much as possible together for the remainder of the time. When the song party is over and we see where Kalev has come to with his plans, we can discuss again whether and what more can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U44	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Culture for Prime Ministership! You have already mentioned, very rightly, that the preservation and transmission of national traditions also has a great significance in symbol buildings, which bring together and maintain some meaning from the past to this day. I'm asking about the Church of Mary of Tartu. The church of Tartu Maarja has the meaning of a song festival for Estonians, the meaning of creating the Estonians' own self-consciousness. Why is the Ministry of Culture now very negative and does not want the state to shoulder the restoration of the church of Tartu Mary to the extent that next year, when the jubilee song festival takes place, it is possible to have a proud first concert?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U46	Thanks for asking. I think that our structural cultural heritage and its preservation is very important. That is why, among other things, I have fought 1.4 million extra euros each year for the heritage reform from next year. This is something that has been postponed for years and that is why the heritage reform has not been implemented. Now we have the resources. I hope that the Riigikogu will also reach an agreement on amendments to the Heritage Protection Act. The farm architecture support programme will also be launched as a new initiative from next year. As far as the farm architecture is concerned, we have been consciously dealing very little with it, the resources are always limited, and we need to make choices that we can and cannot do. I would like to ask you where the city of Tartu has been all these years before. If this church is, as it now turns out, the most important church that should have been fixed first, why have millions been spent in other churches? The state has contributed to two churches in the city of Tartu, and I think that was the case. It is very good that these churches have gathered very large sums of money. Nowhere else in Estonia has so much public money gone into the renovation of churches. If you come to a song party on the eve of the anniversary and say that the state should find four million at the very last moment and take on the financing of another church in Tartu rather than leave it to the local government and the owner of the church, I do not think this is the correct behaviour. I have answered the mayor of Tartu about this six months ago. It has not prevented him from sending me new letters and taking advantage of the situation that we are about to have emotionally important events coming. But this is where the city of Tartu should look in the mirror itself. I would like to ask why this church is still not in order and why it has been stretched.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U47	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U48	Jüri Adams asks the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Please, George Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U49	Mr. Minister! On the website of the Ministry of Justice, this year's list of intentions also includes the launch of the Institute of State Law. Would you please provide information on what it means and how this intention is progressing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U50	Thank you, good questioner! From the state budget this year, the legislator allocated EUR 300000 from the state budget for this programme. The Ministry of Justice prepares a programme that includes teaching Estonian constitutional law and promoting scientific research. These activities, which could be at the core of this Institute of Constitutional Law under the programme prepared by the Ministry of Justice, are the issue of textbooks and teaching tools of constitutional law, including electronic teaching materials, the publication of scientific articles, comments and translations, the financing of specific constitutional research projects, the support of research activities on the constitutional law of students, including doctoral students, and the organisation of conferences. What I'm trying to say is that right now this project is in preparation, but surely when it's mature, I will inform everyone interested, including, of course, the good questioner, fully.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U51	George Adams, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U52	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Unfortunately, there wasn't the most interesting information. You could at least open up so much, whether you mean a separate institution or a certain department at a university currently in existence, or if you have been negotiating with someone. Is there a person we can imagine as its leader in the execution of this project?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U53	When we applied from the state budget for funds for this programme, in fact, there had not been a decision yet, it has now emerged during the debate that it would indeed be reasonable to do so in the form of an independent private body. It is certainly one of the roles of this Institute to support studies and studies in state law in all our higher education institutions, where law education is organised on the basis of a level of education. Currently, this project is directly related to the Ministry of Justice's staff, but, of course, our starting point is such that in the future there will be people who will act specifically with this institute, i.e. both the Council and the President. But once possible personnel choices have been made, no doubt we'll let the good questioner and the public know.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U54	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Can I conclude from this that the course of this institute is purely theoretical or that its objectives may include, for example, the preparation of a constitutional amendment? Or does the Ministry of Justice contribute in some other way to the rule of law? Does the Ministry also intend to contribute to the National Reform Foundation initiated by 28 entrepreneurial people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U56	Thank you. No, there is no connection to the action you have mentioned on this initiative. In itself, we do not mean the programme, and I call it a programme on the basis of scale and scope, the Institute as a research institution, where people who work there all day, are sitting, but in fact, the idea is, in the form of a foundation, to support specific research projects on the basis of the principle of academic competition. There is, of course, no intention of undermining the constitution of the constitutional, parliamentary order in force or the constitution drafted by Jüri Adams. This is neither a starting point nor an ambition, and this has not been the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U57	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U58	The next question is Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tammele. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Now we already know the initial amounts proposed by the European Union for the next funding period. While around 900 million Estonian agriculture came from the European Union during this funding period, the next funding period has been said to be a 10% reduction in agricultural subsidies in the European Union in general. What are the prospects for Estonian agriculture for the next financing period?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U60	Thank you, dear questioner. I think the news for Estonian agriculture in the next financial period is positive, because it is one of the few areas where we are going to see an increase, unlike other funds. The level of direct payments should be aligned. The European Commission is committed to reducing subsidies for those countries that receive more than 90%, and for those who receive less than 90%, to 50% of the difference. Overall, the level of direct payments in the new financial period should increase by 12% if we take the whole period. It is very positive that the reference year will be 2016 i.e. 200000 per hectare of arable land will be increased. That's quite a lot of money and a good result. We will certainly lose about 15% of the second pillar, which concerns rural areas, but at the same time the country will be able to add 15%, and this EUR 100 million over the seven years will not be an overlying task for the Estonian state. I think that the farmer will get a much better result than today, but we will certainly not be satisfied with direct payments that are still below the European Union average, and that is why we will continue to fight to harmonise them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U61	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask this question: what priorities do our Ministry of Rural Affairs and the government now have for the next funding period? There has also been talk of a relatively rapid increase in organic farming in this Chamber. Today, it is already known that beef production has taken a great turn, that the number of cattle has even been equal to that of dairy cows, etc., there are also various other areas of work. What do you think these priorities might be and what will be more emphasis be put on in the next funding period?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U63	Thank you. You mentioned some areas that have been particularly advanced, such as the rearing of meat cattle. The organic economy is also one of the government's priorities. The government has made it its goal that in 2021 51% of Estonia's territory should be organic. This does not apply to arable land, and agricultural land could be 20 to 25% of it. The demand for organic products is increasing and this may be one of Estonia's options for selling Estonia as a organic country. It is certainly the dairy sector, the dairy cow farming sector, but the number of meat cattle, as well as the number of sheep, horses and other animals, is also increasing. I can say that the whole agricultural sector is actually growing, and last year it was growing particularly strong. The priority for Estonia should be to grow and develop those sectors where we are good, such as dairy cattle, beef cattle, cereals, etc., but we also have new areas of activity, such as horticulture, which is becoming more and more visible. We bring in a lot of food in vegetables, but we could make more of our own. These would be the main priorities. But some measures are still being developed, and I think that, together with farmers, we will find the most appropriate solutions to the places where we can be the most successful and compete with our colleagues on the markets of the rest of the European Union. Agriculture is a great opportunity for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U64	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, One of the major objectives of Estonian R &amp; D policy is to increase R &amp; D initiated by all ministries at very many levels. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has been one of its leaders for years. What are the directions that you see at the Ministry of Rural Affairs in the field of research and development which are currently the most necessary for Estonia? Where has the Ministry already allocated resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U66	Thank you, dear questioner. Yes, ex-R &amp; D is also a very important part of rural and agricultural life. The Ministry has allocated quite a lot of resources to organise and catch up with this scientific development. These areas are, in fact, many; it is the organic economy or how to promote cooperative activities better. It will, for example, examine how we can be more effective in aquaculture and better compete with our neighbours. So there are many areas and also those institutes that belong to the Ministry, the University of Life Sciences, etc., are very successful in developing and we contribute quite a lot of money to it. But I say agriculture is a great opportunity. I think that with climate change and our position, we have a great deal to gain here. Agriculture is developing well, be it new plant breeding or all the new technology used and digitalisation. There is certainly one direction in which new varieties, especially varieties that adapt to climate change, such as soybean, are really successfully addressed by the Institute for Plant Production. These are our main directions. Without science, however, it is certainly not possible to further develop agriculture. Another important area is the environment in which quite large resources will be put in the next budget period and it will be mandatory to put about a quarter of the total budget in order to preserve our environment for future generations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U67	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U68	Indrek Saar, the Prime Minister's role as Minister of Culture and member of the government, now answers Mr Herkel's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. I have to admit, I sometimes have problems talking to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas here. For example, I'm asking a question about corruption, but he's going to call me a member of the Central Party. I hope to get a better answer from you. It is now a question of this EUR 1.24 million in the amount of funding supervision of political parties not declared to the Commission, for which one company, Midfield, has offered services to the Centre Party in 2009/2014. The Commission has raised this issue sharply. Please tell me whether, if it should appear that the Prime Minister himself has deliberately dealt with the concealment of data from the funding monitoring committee himself, you consider it possible to continue with him as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U70	Thank you for your question. I don't know why Prime Minister Ratas has invited you to join the Central Party. I remember that this is a member of the Free Party, and I will try to keep it in mind until the end of Question Time, and I would like to apologize in advance for any linguistic abuse that might indicate something else. However, as far as the transparency of party funding is concerned, I think that there should, of course, be a zero tolerance on this issue. We have had discussions with you and we have taken initiatives, in fact legislative improvements in this Chamber of the Riigikogu as well. I am pleased to recall that the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties, which was set up in the composition that it is currently working on, was, in my opinion, set up at the end of 2010. At that time, the social democrats had a significant role to play in ensuring that this committee is not only composed of representatives of political parties, but certainly also of representatives of the Auditor General and the Chancellor of Justice, so that transparency and balance of the control mechanism are ensured and that it is not just a working body between political parties. I have a great deal of confidence in the work of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. I believe that they will, in cooperation with the relevant bodies, whom they will decide and have already decided to involve in the investigation of this matter, be able to find out what has really happened then. I think it's important. I think that the funding of political parties is one of the issues that must be organised transparently in order for democracy to actually work. Certainly, legislation could also reduce the reasons why anyone would be tempted to look for peripheral areas or even allowed opportunities to fund political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U71	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Culture for Prime Ministership! A little of the same style when I asked Mr Ossinovski about PBK when he also represented the Prime Minister, he gave me the answer that I didn't get from Jüri Ratas, which is that it is extremely deplorable to channel money to this television channel in Tallinn. But your answer, however, was somewhat rounder. That the Committee on Financing Monitoring is a positive phenomenon is undoubtedly in agreement with us. However, I still did not receive an answer to the question of what will happen to the party that has systematically made false declarations to this committee. I will also ask here whether there is a need to give any additional tasks or powers to the Committee on Financing of Political Parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U73	Thank you! How else would I be able to ask a provocative question you put in style 'What do you think if it happens, under the conditions that these conditions are met? And then what would you say conditionally? ' other ways to answer? You understand yourself that your question has been posed as a provocation. I'm not going to respond to this provocation. I am happy to discuss the financing of political parties, its transparency and whether the ICTY can carry out its tasks adequately. Of course, I am also prepared to discuss how we generally have political party funding and what are these propulsion mechanisms, that we are still discovering from time to time, among other things, the ERJK is doing a very good job of doing so, that political parties have either walked the border or broken the rules. I'm sure I'd like to congratulate the EJC for this job. But I also call on you to deal in depth with us finally reaching the core of the matter, that is, the initiative that the Social Democrats have taken, once again, repeatedly. We need to limit the need for the money that political parties constantly have and what turns them into 'addictives' so that there will be less temptations in the future to think about how more could be raised in the election campaign. I think that if we could change this, the proportion of infringements that we see now and again from time to time would also change greatly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U74	I will conclude on this issue. The time is that if anyone wants to ask in one minute, the minister will be able to answer in two minutes. First of all, I would also like to say the name of the minister to whom the question is addressed. That's not what you want. Thank you to the ministers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U75	Dear Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts and inquiries? Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I am submitting a draft decision of the Riigikogu to the proceedings of the Riigikogu and this is the appointment of the members of the Gambling Tax Board. We received a letter from the Ministry of Culture and it proposed to appoint Vice Chancellor Tarvi Sits as a member of the Council in place of Paavo Nõges. The second point in this draft relates to the sad fact that Mr Ammas is no longer with us. In his place, the Commission proposes to appoint Mr Enn Mere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U77	I've adopted a bill. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we will proceed with this. Incoming check, please! 75 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U78	Our first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Act amending the Collective Agreement initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Liisa Oviir, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U79	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, While women had a retirement age of 57 years and six months in 1998, ten years later women had a retirement age of 60 years and six months, and by 2026 the retirement age gradually rises to 65 years. Life expectancy is rising, of course. However, regardless of the increase in retirement age, forecasts show that almost 300000 people of working age will be reduced in Estonia over the next 50 years. As a result, the need to increase pension age is increasingly being discussed, and further on with the goal set to date at 65 years of age. However, an increase in retirement age does not automatically mean that people are able to work longer. One important guarantee to increase the number of healthy years of life in order, even in theory, to allow work to be extended is to contribute to safety and health at work. On average, a person is at work for about a third of a day and work inevitably affects a person's health. However, work can have a positive or negative impact on a person's health. Exposure to different threats can harm both physical and mental health and thus adversely affect quality of life and ability to cope. There is a need for consistent and systematic analysis of the working environment and for results to be adapted in order to create work well-being and reduce health risks. But not just that. In addition to eliminating risks and negative factors, positive factors need to be developed. This together makes it possible for workers to remain in employment before the retirement age and is a prerequisite for extending working life. I am therefore very pleased that the Government of the Republic, under the leadership of the Minister for Labour and Health, has developed amendments to the Law on Health and Safety at Work which encourage the creation of a safe working environment and the prevention of health damage to workers. One of the most important changes is the clear linking of health surveillance with the results of the risk analysis carried out. So far, many companies have carried out health checks and risk analysis regardless of each other. This results in a uniform health check, independent of the specifics of the work and the risks, which does not result from real risk factors and does not fulfil its purpose. In view of the changing nature of work, the concept of a psychosocial hazard is also included in the law and the employer's obligation to reduce the negative impact on the mental and physical health of the worker in order to mitigate the impact of such a hazard. There are no good statistics on depression in Estonia, but it is known that it tends to hit people who work harder and more responsible. Studies show that an employee with mental health problems at work is dealing with the so-called "presentism": he is present but unable to work. And this ultimately affects the company's economic performance and, in a large picture, the entire economy of the country. Studies have shown that the costs of this syndrome are five to six times higher than those of absenteeism. Studies also show that the cost of mental health problems worldwide amounts to trillions of euros a year, and every euro spent on combating depression returns nearly 14 euros in profit. In the countries of the European Union, 14% of workers have mental health problems. Mental health problems, including depression, were the third significant cause of healthy life years lost in 2004 and are expected to rise in 2020 as a second significant cause. One fifth of all lost working days in Europe have been caused by anxiety and depressive disorders. Mental health problems develop in a combination of biological, psychological, social and environmental factors. In the working environment, these problems also arise in relation to the content of the work, but above all in relation to the environment. The aim of the draft is to make the organisation of the working environment more central to a particular company, starting with the linking of the health check already mentioned with the company's risk analysis, continuing with the organisation of first aid at the company and the environmental guidance of workers, a number of measures to reduce the administrative burden on the company will be added which will help to make the work of companies much more efficient and flexible. As a last important principle, I would like to point out a change in the position whose duty is to ensure the safety of the working environment. Too often, it is considered to be a substitute activity for public authority or a narrow employer's business. So far, the employer had virtually no opportunity to influence the worker to comply with occupational safety and health requirements. Now it's an opportunity in the form of a fine. And what matters is not the possibility of punishing anyone, but the principle that the working environment is a shared responsibility of the employer and the employee, the principle contained in the draft. It is a good bill and it is supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U80	There is no further wish for negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the final vote? Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Act amending the Collective Agreement 581 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 581, no abstentions and no opposition. The Act amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Collective Contract Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U81	Second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the "Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, amending the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement' initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Foreign Affairs Committee waitress is Anne Sulling. Please! Honourable Riigikogu, we respect the vigilante who is present to you by talking to each other in another room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First reading of Bill 606 we completed on 9 May. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 11 May. On a proposal from the language editor, the text of the draft was accompanied by a technical note indicating the publication of the text of the contract. The Committee on Foreign Affairs continued to prepare for the second reading of the draft at its meeting on 14 May and approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum for the second reading. Reminder: this is an amendment to the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of South Africa, which entered into force on 1 May 2004. The aim of the amendment is to update, inter alia, the wording of the provisions on cultural, information society, economic development and scientific cooperation and to include, inter alia, provisions on cooperation in the field of migration, combating terrorism, combating money laundering, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and combating organised crime. The ratification of the draft will give Estonia an additional argument in its relations with the Republic of South Africa in order to achieve a visa-free regime, as the migration clauses for the amendment of the agreement provide for the readmission of illegally staying citizens, which is one of the prerequisites for the conclusion of the visa-free regime. The proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to conclude the second reading of the draft, conclude the final vote and adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U83	Any questions for the waitress? Thank you, Anne Sulling! Henn Põllaas, do you have a question or is that already a wish for negotiation? I'm opening negotiations. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U84	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The apartheid ended in the Republic of South Africa in 1994. Millions of hectares of land belonging to Africans, or white South Africa, have been transferred to the country both voluntarily and for compensation. Nevertheless, the South African Parliament has recently decided to confiscate without any compensation the rest of the land belonging to white farmers. This is what the left-wing neo-Marxist party proposed. Mr Ramaposa, President of the LAV, promised to proceed with the land-sharing programme on an accelerated basis; his statement was adopted in Parliament with exultation. The nation's population of Europeans is afraid that the result will be the same brutal and violent takeover of countries as was the case in neighbouring Zimbabwe, where a large part of the countries now belong to the district close to President Robert Mugabe. The country has collapsed economically and much of the land was fed. Crime and violence in LAV have already become so severe that white African-speaking farmers have come to the streets to protest and ask the international community for help. According to statistics published at the end of last year, 156 people have been murdered in LAV for 100000 farmers on average, which, according to Atkinson, a member of the European Parliament makes farming in LAV the world's most dangerous work outside war zones. Over the last few years, thousands of African farmers have been murdered, along with mass beatings, rapes and abductions. Genocide Watch, which has its headquarters in Washington, acknowledged already in 2003, that racial hatred is behind the attacks and that it could turn into genocide if the government did not intervene. Rather, the government seems to encourage this. According to Peter Dutton, Australian Minister for Immigration, European farmers in South Africa have had to experience brutal violence that Australia cannot and must not ignore. He announced that he was preparing a law giving LAV farmers the right to receive a special visa to come to Australia. They need to be given help, as in the place of a civilised country, he emphasised. However, his call to allow white farmers from South Africa to come to Australia on a simplified basis drove the left onto the hind legs. He was charged with racism because he dared to stand up for the security of white people. The violation of white human rights, their persecution, discrimination, fierce violence, or so-called white genocide, has turned the life of a four million-million-dollar community of Europeans in South Africa into a nightmare. But you can't talk about it. In the view of the two-faced multicultural tolerant, racism is merely a white person's derogatory attitude toward people of darker skin color and the corresponding behaviour, but never the other way around. In other words, racism can only be one-way, race can only be a man with white skin. However, the events that have become commonplace in the Republic of South Africa speak against this absurd approach. Anti-White racism is a reality and it has taken extremely brutal forms, as has violence against Christians in many Islamist countries. But no one seems to care about these things. The European Union has shown exceptional ignorance, deplorable duplicity and double standards with regard to what is happening in South Africa and in many other African countries. In November 2017, the European Parliament rejected the proposal by the independent Member, Janice Atkinson, to discuss the murders of white farmers in the highest structures of the European Union in the Republic of South Africa. While the European Parliament has discussed and voted enthusiastically in favour of international intervention to end the former apartheid, it has now not all mentioned the serious human rights violations committed in South Africa, because it is not directed against niggers but against white people. Apparently, this behavior and white genocide seem to be acceptable and normal. I am very interested in whether the Estonian ambassadors also voted in favour of putting this topic under the table. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U85	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U86	The bolshevist nationalisation, violence and massacre of private white property inevitably lead to the mass fleeing of these people from the country, but they are not granted aid and refugee status by the European Union. As has been said, Atkinson's proposal to initiate a debate on this matter and the demand that both the European Commission and the European Council make a disapproval statement, without support. Not only do we have on the table today a document on the basis of which the European Union is prepared to conclude an agreement on development aid, trade and cooperation with the Republic of South Africa, and we are being asked for approval and authority to do so. We have heard here the absolutely uncritical praise of this agreement. But we have to talk about things honestly and openly. Do we really approve of everything that's going on there? In this document, which we have on the table, or in the explanatory memorandum, there is no mention of the situation there, of the brutal racism and violence against the white people. It does not say a word in half that we are categorically opposed to all forms of racism, that we stand up for human rights and demand respect for them from all countries, especially those whom we are willing to help or cooperate with in various areas, that any aid must be preceded by the immediate cessation of white discrimination, equal treatment, restoration of normal situation and the return of land ownership to owners or, at the very least, full compensation for it. Without it, no agreement is an option! Instead, the agreements already in force, including the lifting of the visa waiver granted to South African citizens for the journey to the European Union, must be reviewed and immediate severe sanctions against the LAV should be imposed and assistance given to white refugees, as Australia has proposed. The willingness to cooperate with such a country is a lie and a disgrace and renders all the talk about democracy, European values, human rights and their support null and void. If this agreement should be approved, no human who supports it will have the moral right to speak on these matters anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you: let us not contribute to racism and discrimination. As a result, the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U87	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U88	This is a speech on the ground. I mean, what Mr Pier said now, unfortunately, reflects reality. I say this as a senior scientist at the Woodrow Wilson Center who has worked with people who have dealt with African problems. However, I do not think we are sufficiently informed and mature to make a decision on one side or the other on the basis of one report. I think it is extremely useful that, in the intervening period, this will be until 11 June, the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Estonian Riigikogu would, for the first time, take the trouble and present a proper explanatory note, where all the topics that were discussed have been dealt with. Secondly, I also find it inappropriate to ratify a text which is not very officially published. Consequently, there are two errors: there is no explanatory memorandum in essence and the text to be ratified is even less. So it would be like this appeal to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. How about we get to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U89	So, is there any more negotiation? Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U90	I listened with pleasure to Henn Põllea's speech or, sorry, report. It looked amazingly familiar. Almost the same text was published in 1919 in several German newspapers, where the same crimes as those currently committed by the leadership of the Republic of South Africa were accused of the Estonian Constituent Assembly on the road to communism, which in the course of the agrarian reform took away their estates from the fair Baltic Germans, even though the land had already been sold to peasants. Apparently, this is a phenomenon known in history, where the power released from the yoke uses its power. My speech was only aimed at drawing attention to the fact that there are strange parallels in history.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U91	I'm closing the negotiations. There is no further wish for negotiations. No amendments were tabled to draft 606 and the Committee on Foreign Affairs' proposal is a final vote on the draft. But as you have heard, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed to interrupt the second reading and this proposal must be voted on by the Riigikogu. [[Someone's commenting on the floor.]] I stopped negotiating when there were no names here. Would you like to negotiate more? [[Something's been answered in the hall.]] Oh, I see! Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U92	Thank you. As my name has been mentioned, I would like to remind my esteemed colleague Aadu Must that the two situations that are currently taking place in the Republic of South Africa and which took place in Estonia are completely incomparable. By the way, in Estonia, the land taken away later was compensated. The Republic of South Africa is fully Bolshevik, without any compensation nationalising these countries. And little of that, I wasn't just talking about land. I was also talking about brutal racism, violence, genocide against white people. This is all one big whole that should make it clear to every person who supports democracy and human rights that we cannot conclude this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U93	Honourable Riigikogu! Ambassador Henn Põllaas abused the trust of the President of the Riigikogu. If there is a wish for an opposition, this will be done during the negotiations. When I say that the negotiations are over, they're over, no matter who and where they called their names. Then we won't negotiate. I believed that Henn Põljaas, who proposed that the second reading be interrupted, would like to take a break before the vote. Instead, you abused the trust of the President of the Riigikogu. So Jürgen Ligi has the right to a procedural question. He's got a finger up, and I think he's gonna ask a procedural question. The negotiations are over. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U94	Thank you. You half answered, but I would have asked if Aadu Black could still have the floor to talk about the red violence against the white people in Estonia in the years these and these, for example, in 1940. After all, the predecessor spoke of black violence against white people. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] In fact, Aadu has a lot of interesting information on this subject. Somehow it got a little one-sided.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U95	This was not a procedural issue. Jürgen Ligi also misjudged his right to lift his finger. Dear Riigikogu, we are going to the vote! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Conservative People's Party Group's proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, amending the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement. Please take a stand and vote. There are 7 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, 59 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the 'Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, amending the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement' initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 60 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 606, against 3, with 3 abstentions. Bill 606 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U96	The next item is the second reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the Law on Tobacco. Financial Committee waitress Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U97	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was at first reading on 14 April. After these amendments, the members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not receive them. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this draft law at two sittings, on 14 and 28 May, in view of the fact that we received five proposals from four interested organisations and that there was also a need to formalise some more specific amendments on behalf of the Commission. Now I'm talking about what was in those letters. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry made two proposals. In the first, he offered to reduce the electrointensity rate from 20% to 10%. Commenting on this, the representative of the Ministry of Finance said that 20% was approved at the Government of the Republic meeting. To change this figure, a new coordination circle, new calculations, new explanatory memorandum etc. would be needed. I mean, to make sure that the beneficiaries are 70 more, that their number grows from 240 to 310, we lose about a year in this process. The second amendment was that if the company had already approved the annual report at the auditor's office and communicated it to the business register, it would not be necessary to require him to submit the electricity report referred to in this draft law. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that the information contained in the auditor's audited annual report does not allow for calculations to be made, i.e. verification of the actual share of electricity prices in the final production price. AS Tallink Grupp proposed to increase the limit quantity of cigarettes brought to Estonia from 40 to 200 free of excise duty on voyages from third countries. We were told about a directive that specifically sets one rate: the range between 40 and 200. Given the border trade on the eastern border, we have chosen 40 in our time. The directive that regulates all of this allows for two options. A number can be set, for example, as we have 40 and 200 in Finland, and there can be an exception for those passengers who board the plane. No other exemptions can be granted under this Directive. And that means that if you want to allow tourists from Ahvenamaa who have gone through their own procedures and brought along cigarettes from one block to have this right, then we should extend this right, so it applies at all borders. It is clear that the Commission could not accept this and neither could the Ministry. One proposal was made by Team Paldiski OÜ. They offered a more favourable rate of excise duty for processing companies whose electrointensity is less than 20%, but for whom the value added per employed person is at least one-and-a-half times the average value of the processing industry in Estonia. The answer was said to be that 20%, which is basically wrong. Secondly, the question is that there is no criterion such as the added value of one employee in the directive and the question arises as to whether such a formulation can be used in European law. And another suggestion came. This was done by the Estonian Electric Industry Association, whose wish was for the electric excises to be regressive. It was an interesting letter, but there was nothing concrete about it. This was also noted by a representative of the Ministry of Finance. Finally, the four interested organisations submitted a total of five proposals, but the Commission and the Ministry of Finance did not find an opportunity to support them. We ourselves have formulated two amendments, they are in the table and they are visible to you. The first amendment consists of three parts and all of them are clear, for the sake of the correct interpretation of the law. One proposal is to supplement this list of persons entitled to apply for an exemption from excise duty on energy. An electro-intensity operator would be added. The second and third parts of this amendment are similar. The second amendment states that in order to obtain a retroactive refund of excise duty, an undertaking authorised to grant an exemption from excise duty must also meet all conditions for the consumption of electricity with preferential excise duty, including the requirement of an electrointensity of 20%, during the period for which it applies for the refund of excise duty. These two amendments were tabled on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This was followed by procedural decisions. We decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board a second reading today, 30 May. The same support was given to the proposal to conclude the second reading, and another consensus was reached when we agreed that, if the second reading was successfully completed today, the third reading could take place on 6 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U98	Questions for the waitress. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U99	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Did the Commission also have a debate that creating such differences at European level could give rise to the question that suddenly State aid is involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U100	Did I get it right that you mean exactly that 20% and the excise duty that will fall? I mean, at first reading, I must have reported to you that the Euro Directive provides a very broad framework. It only lays down a minimum and that minimum is half of the euro, and it must not be less. But in everything else, every country has the right to decide these questions for itself. If I remember correctly, in Denmark, for example, industry has a rate of 52 cents, but domestic consumers have a rate of 120 euros and 50 cents. That means the difference is 240 times. So there will certainly be no problem here with the question of possible State aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U101	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. Two amendments have been tabled for draft 595, both from the Committee on Monetary Affairs: the first amendment, the second amendment. The second reading of Bill 595 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U102	Second reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws and the Social Welfare Act 596. Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Kütt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U103	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! The first reading of the Act amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic on 5 March 2018 and the Law amending other laws in this connection was completed in this Chamber on 21 March. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5 April at 5.15 p.m. By the deadline, amendments were tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. I will say immediately that, at the meeting on 28 May, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union withdrew its proposals, because the Commission had also reached a compromise based on them, which was different from the amendments tabled in their original form. Between the two readings, the Commission sent a letter to eight organisations to prepare the draft, asking for proposals and opinions on the scope of the draft. Three organisations replied to us in writing: the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Associations and the Estonian Confederation of Trade Unions. After completion of the first reading of the draft, the draft was on the agenda for five meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs: 17 April, 3 May, 15 May, 17 May and 28 May. At the first meeting, i.e. on 17 April, there was a debate with stakeholders on the amendments to the draft and on the opinions sent. NGO Eesti Omisestehooldus generally acknowledged that this is a grateful initiative. At the same time, it asked why there was a minimum level of pay for care leave. There was also a great deal of concern that persons appointed under the Social Welfare Act are obliged to be in addition to being appointed as guardians in a contractual relationship. Another concern is that there are very different ways in which different municipalities determine carers. The Chamber of Disabled persons presented its views on the draft and found that, if only those who work have the right to care leave, their relatives have been treated differently. Some carers who care for a loved one with a deep disability are not able to work at all. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation supported the draft. Just as a reminder to good colleagues, this bill provides for paid care leave for a close or appointed guardian of an adult with a deep disability. The application for, calculation, payment and reimbursement of such paid parental leave shall be subject to the same principles as the application for, calculation, payment and reimbursement of paid parental leave. The employee applies for care leave from the employer and the amount of the holiday fee to be reimbursed from the state budget is calculated and paid to the employee by the employer, who is required to submit an application to the Social Insurance Board for the transfer of the amount to be reimbursed from the state budget. I will now give a brief overview of what took place in these five meetings of the Commission. On 17 April there was a long and thorough debate. Ms Kangro presented the amendments tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica, which mainly concerned two issues. One was linked to the extension of the target group and the other to the provision of additional paid leave not only to the carer of a person with a deep disability. There was a very thorough debate. The officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the right to leave was limited to employees in employment, since the contract of employment is a subordinate relationship where the employer determines the place, the time and the manner in which the work is to be carried out and the timetable for the holidays is also determined. Other types of contract are not subordinate and the person is free to decide when and how to work and when to rest. The idea was also raised that if care leave were extended to all other persons working under a debt contract, the question would arise if leave were granted to care for a disabled person with a deep disability of an adult and parental leave for the parents of a disabled child, why would other forms of leave such as annual leave, maternity leave and parental leave not be extended? These are all benefits in the form of a vacation. So we had a long and thorough debate. After this debate, the Commission decided to continue the debate on the amendments at the next sittings. However, we asked the Ministry to analyse the IRL amendments and to find a way to take them into account in some way, so that, in a changed situation where forms of work are different and people do not all work on the basis of an employment contract, equal treatment is ensured. By 3 May, we had not yet received a text from the Ministry confirming this readiness and this point was on the agenda, but we did not discuss it. On 15 May, this debate was also postponed as there was no solution that would have been mature enough to be discussed by the Commission. By 17 May, however, solutions had been submitted that could be included in the draft and it was announced that the Government of the Republic would, for a certain time, carry out relevant analyses to make proposals to the Riigikogu. So, during the debate on 17 May, solutions were already proposed and it was decided to propose that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 30 May, to propose that the second reading be closed, to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, by 6 June, and to propose that the final vote on the draft be also carried out. All these proposals were made by consensus. On 28 May, we had amendments on the table; this text has also been forwarded to you. Ms Kangro withdrew the amendments that had been tabled by the IRL because it was agreed that such decisions should not be taken in haste. Additional points have now been written in the draft, as will the text submitted to you. It is proposed to supplement § 1 (5) of the draft with regard to the analysis of the extension of the right to leave. The first amendment concerned the change of title, as a reference to the Social Welfare Act came into the title, since Amendment 3 specifically concerns the amendment of the Social Welfare Act. This is complemented by the section under which the Government of the Republic will prepare, by 1 January 2020, an analysis and on the basis thereof, proposals for an assessment system to be used to identify the need for care of an adult person. The aim is to implement the results of this analysis in order to identify the recipient of care leave from 1 January 2021. If the draft we are discussing today is that a person with a deep disability is given an additional five working days' leave to a close relative or other carer, from 1 January 2021 it would no longer be based on a disability cared for, for example, whether it is deep or medium, but on the assessment of the need for care. This proposal was supported by consensus by the Committee on Social Affairs. I did not mention that, at the meeting on 28 May, the chairman of the committee was authorised to sign the draft second reading procedural documents in the light of the discussions at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U104	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Do you, who have been very active in this area for a very long time and very competent, not find this deadline too long in the light of current changing employment relationships? Only by 1 January 2020 will the Ministry prepare its review. At the same time, we talk everywhere about all professional relationships changing, in every area. And we have an overview of how many such people have been employed. Why such deadlines and whose offer are they?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U106	Thank you very much for this question. Actually, I'd like to go faster, but I have to take reality into account. It will take time to develop the same valuation need instrument. Currently, a pilot project has been launched in six municipalities and will lead to these decisions. It's gonna take a year. Secondly, the whole Code will be looked at more widely and it will analyse what these employment relationships are. It is not conceivable, for example, that the person receiving the rent will be on holiday. The Law of Obligations Act allows for a wide variety of forms, for example, management contracts which are often concluded by municipalities in the case of a personal assistant. In fact, it was considered at length in the Commission whether the date of entry into force could be 1 January or 1 July, but in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs we made such a decision. The aim is to implement the right to a five-day holiday for carers of persons with a deep disability from 1 July this year. We did not want to push it into the next year, but it is not possible to implement it all at once from 1 July. It was thus found, together with the Ministry, that it is reasonable to prepare everything properly, and today to give this message that it is being dealt with, that other laws relating to social benefits and holidays will also be reviewed. It's like an answer. But thank you for the question, because of course I really would like to. These people, these carers need help and support and they really work using different forms of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U107	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs. I would also like to touch on the problem mentioned in the explanatory memorandum that the understanding of local authorities is very different, both in terms of deep disability and in terms of how to appoint carers. During these long and in-depth discussions, have you been able to find out in the Commission what these different concepts are coming from and how local authorities can be helped to bring these concepts into line?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U109	Thank you. This is a question that both the Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs are dealing with very thoroughly. The local governments are free to determine their own times. This is the law of the municipality, which is based, for example, on the law of the family. There are municipalities that do not formalise children or grandchildren as guardians, and other municipalities are formalised simply because they appreciate that the person has been cared for. They do not rely on family law, which simply imposes such an obligation. It is very different from one municipality to another. This has been the subject of an overview and the Ministry has also taken up the problem with Estonian rural municipalities and the Cities Association, while giving explanations about social security. The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out that receiving care depends very much on the person's place of residence. So this problem is upstairs. It was brought to the table of the Social Affairs Committee by the Association of peculiar caretakers and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, but I believe that larger discussions are still taking place with local governments. As in other cases, when it comes to the state's share of money, the decision-making power of local governments should not be limited in this area. However, the municipalities who need care, maybe not, are best informed. Maybe they're offering other services instead of a carer. It is very difficult to assess this at the level of the Commission. I can simply give an example of the city of Viljandi, which, despite the provisions of the family law, also formalises children and grandchildren as guardians, as well as spouses. It is believed that this is the way a person gets the best help. But it's true these times are different. The Commission did not consider it necessary to intervene or focus on it at first. However, I do not exclude that we will take this as a separate topic for example to discuss during the autumn period. We can also meet representatives of local governments to discuss this issue more and to find out why one way or the other has been decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U110	Thank you, Helmen Hunter! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Three amendments have been tabled for draft 596; all are from the lead committee: the first amendment, the second amendment, the third amendment. Thank you. The second reading of Bill 596 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U111	Second reading of draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, the Energy Economy Organisation Act and the Natural Gas Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 576. The rapporteur is Sven Sester, Chairman of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you an overview of the bill bearing number 576. This is the second reading of the Electricity Market Act, the Energy Economy Organisation Act and the Act amending the Natural Gas Act. Let me tell you a little bit about how the procedure has been between the first reading and the second reading. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 15 January. The first reading took place on 14 March, the deadline for submitting amendments, and no proposals were received from the Riigikogu by 28 March. During the procedure, however, a large number of parties involved in the electricity market and that market because of their activities approached the Commission, who proposed amendments to the draft or raised objections, or instead expressed their support for the views of the initiator or the arguments put forward by another applicant. All these materials are also on our Riigikogu website, so the initiator of the draft has generally always given feedback on his or her views. The counter arguments in the letters between market participants are also visible on the website. Now, following the first reading of the draft 576, the Estonian Wind Energy Association, Eesti Gaasiit, Eesti Energia, NGO Eesti Taastuvenergia Koda, Estonian Cities Association, Vinni Municipality Government, Viljandi Municipality Government, NGO Estonian Solar Power Association, Wind Technology Association, Estonian Wind Power Association, Team Paldiski OÜ and Competition Board addressed the Commission. The representative of the initiator of the draft act sent proposals for amending the draft and communicated his views to the Commission on the various proposals contained in the letters and, as I have already said, these views have been communicated both to the Commission and to all market participants. All those who approached the Commission with their proposal were able to attend the meeting of the Economic Commission on 10 April, if they so wished, in order to present and justify their views. Again, all these opinions and suggestions can be found on our website. Some proposals were received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the course of their work. In addition, a number of proposals were formulated by the initiator's representative at the Commission meeting and in the working group as a result of discussions. Between the two readings, a fundamental decision was made to include in the draft amendments to the Electricity Market Act, which were included in the draft 290 which passed the second reading during the parliamentary procedure, because the latter had to be amended as a result of the State aid authorisation granted to Estonia for the use of the renewable energy support scheme. The Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu do not allow any substantive changes after completing the second reading. All the parties concerned, including those who had submitted their proposals and opinions in the course of the procedure, were again involved to present the proposed amendments to the 290 text of the State aid authorisation and some others, even if they had done so a year earlier. The amendments to the draft were discussed at the meeting of the Economic Committee on 8 May, which included representatives of the following organisations: Eesti Taastuvenergia Koda, Estonian Power Stations and District heating Association, Fortum Estonia, Eesti Energia, NGO Estonian Solar Power Association, Estonian Wind Energy Association, Competition Board, MKM, Estonian Cities and Valdade Association, AS Elering, Wind Technology Association, Estonian Environmental Associations Koda, SA Environmental Rights Centre, Estonian Nature Foundation, World Energy Council Estonian National Committee, Estonian Electric Industry Association and Raisner AS. They were all represented at our next meeting to discuss these topics. All the opinions and suggestions that were made at this meeting can be found online on our website. The draft also passed a language editorial between two readings, the additions of which also exist in our text. Now, if you want to sum up when the Commission met and what was said at one meeting or another, I will go over it again. During the period between first and second reading, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue four times in total. The first time was on 10 April when the Committee on Economic Affairs met with all the stakeholders in the electricity market to discuss the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and the Energy Economy Organisation Act 576 and to listen to all the opinions. We also, of course, heard the views of the initiator of the bill, the MKM. We dealt with the draft in the so-called 12 thematic blocks and reviewed all the proposals that had come to the table. I stress here that the Riigikogu itself has not made any proposals, we are only talking about the proposals of market participants and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Neither the political groups nor the members of the Riigikogu made any proposals. Of course, everyone took part in the debate and the minutes of the sitting are available to the public. The second time we met on 8 May, when the first debate was on 10 April, then the second on 8 May. Representatives of all companies and organisations who had addressed the Commission with proposals and opinions on the 290 draft were invited to this committee meeting. I've read those names before. So we have had two major sessions with nearly 20 companies and organisations represented. While draft 576 was previously under discussion, the purpose of this meeting was to discuss amendments relating to draft 290. We wanted to clarify further the procedure for dealing with the proposals. The parties were told that the second reading of draft 290 was completed in the spring of last year, 2017 and since then MKM has dealt with the application for a State aid authorisation from the European Commission. However, the State aid authorisation received at the end of last year is very different from the aid scheme contained in the draft. It is not possible to amend the drafts between second and third readings, with the exception of the State Budget Act. Therefore, the amendments contained in draft 290 could be made through other pending drafts, and this is what is being done with the current draft 576. Market participants have received State aid authorisation, which came from the European Commission last year. In addition to the changes due to the State aid authorisation, a few minor changes are planned at the request of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Their text has, of course, been forwarded to all parties. So, as openly as possible, as clearly as possible, one information room has tried to communicate with all parties involved. Some of the proposals are based on a proposal for a support scheme previously submitted in the context of the 576 debate. During this meeting on 8 May, all of these proposals were reviewed and systematically divided into five thematic packages. Everyone could ask everyone, including the initiator of the bill MKM. We did not take decisions in this session, just as we did on 10 April. On 15 May, the Committee on Economic Affairs met for the third time. We had invited Mr Ando Leppiman, Deputy Secretary of Energy at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Timo Tatari, Head of the Department of Energy, and Rein Vaksa and Jaanus Uiga, experts who presented the amendments, i.e. the whole list that had already been negotiated with market participants at these meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs. They reiterated the content of the proposals and provided further clarifications. The longest discussion arose on Amendment 11 concerning changes to the renewable energy support scheme resulting from the State aid authorisation. All the opinions received on the proposed amendments on the basis of drafts 576 and 290 and the comments made by the initiator to them had been communicated to the members of the Commission in advance and, of course, they are also available on the website. Finally, we also made procedural decisions and voted through the amendments. On 28 May, the Committee on Economic Affairs met for the fourth time. Again, we had called in a representative from the MKM. This time, an expert named Rein Vaks took part. We had four amendments that had already been supported at the last sitting of the Commission, but the text and the explanatory memorandum needed to be corrected for technical reasons. Technical improvements were not substantive and all of these four amendments were supported by consensus. In summary, you have 15 amendments on your table today. I would like to emphasise all of these, all of the amendments to this text have been supported by consensus by all political parties in Parliament, regardless of whether it is an opposition or a coalition. All these proposals have also been supported by the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The commission also made procedural decisions, which were such: to refer the draft to the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for second reading by 30 May, i.e. today, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, to refer the draft to the third reading by 6 June. These decisions were also taken by consensus by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U113	The round of questions will be opened by Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U114	Thank you, Mr. Sester, for the squirrel talk. This is a very high-impact bill, which has been being dealt with here for several years. We hope that a secure and sensible solution has now been reached. However, I would like to ask you that there are now new fewer offers for renewable energy production. If I understand the draft correctly, only completely new production capacities qualify for it. Why this approach? Wouldn't it make sense to give some older production capacities a chance? It would suddenly be cheaper for both operators and the State to use production equipment that has already been built and where there is overcapacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U115	Thank you. Now, if you start going deeper into the content, we see that there are actually several different qualifications in the draft: up to 50 kilovolts, from 50 kilowatts to 1 megawatt and over 1 megawatts. If we go over this regime, we will see that up to 50 kilowatts of equipment can be included in the old support scheme up to 2020. It was a discussion place, too. Let us be honest, the MKM had announced to the European Commission by its initial communication that this would be the result of 2018, but for up to 50 Kilowatts, the deadline for 2020 is set at this stage. The equipment between 50 kilowatts and 1 megawatt would then have been, in the logic of less bids, competing in the league of larger, over 1 megawatts, if you could say so. It has now been agreed that until the end of this year, they will be able to participate in the old support scheme and that, at the beginning of next year, up to 1 megawatts will start in the league, well how to say, 'too' may still be the wrong word, i.e. up to 1 megawatts of kapatteed production plants, so-called 'less offer' logic within them. And it'll stay that way for the next three years. However, in the case of plants with more than 1 MW, there will be a lower bid in the future, and this less bid logic is, in my opinion, reasonable from the point of view of the consumer. If we look now at the level of support for renewable energy that we have set ourselves in Europe and where we are, we will see that we have exceeded our level. But, unfortunately, it comes at the expense of something, it comes at the expense of the household consumer. Right now we're going for a lower bid. I think that a lower bid will give the right indication of what should actually be the potential share of subsidised energy. Let us not forget that this is a subsidised energy market that the taxpayer pays for.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U116	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U117	Thank you. Good Sven! I don't deliver every day in this area, but I read the papers today, and right now I left myself a Postimees story where a lot of entrepreneurs complain to the Riigikogu about what we are doing here. I read the paragraph: 'Before everything was forgiven, the law will give Elering blancoolism in the future to decide who Elering sees as an existing producer and who does not. ' Perhaps you will explain to the grand hall of the Riigikogu, including to me this logic. Are we really writing a businessman into the law? It may belong to the State, but, in principle, the incorporation of a private company into the law is never a very good logic. Secondly, I understand that we have two major renewable energy stakeholders whose representatives have also been here: one is wood people and the other is wind people. What's the message they're getting? I hope you yourself have read this article published today in Postimees.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U118	Thank you. I didn't read the article, but I understood the context of your question. So I'm still able to answer the question. I've been busy with other issues since this morning. This is about Amendment 11, on which I said that this has led to the biggest debate. There's nothing weird about that. Parliament should certainly know that this year taxpayers' money is being distributed to produce electricity and heat together at EUR 75,4 million, I hope that I am not mistaken. Clearly, there are different interests in this market. MKM has helped us very strongly on this subject. It is the MKM that has been a real communicator with the European Commission: not the Committee on Economic Affairs, but the MKM has been in contact with the European Commission. MKM, as well as the Committee on Economic Affairs, is of the opinion that we should not, in law, give an important position to one company. I'll be honest with you, it's wanted. So to speak, market participants have wanted to suffocate the various discussions in the future under the law. It must be noted that it is, in fact, Elering who issues the State aid permit. It is not issued by the State as such, it is issued by Elering on the basis of well-defined criteria that the European Commission has proposed. The criteria are very clear and Elering decides the matter. You can't take the position that the state says you can, or vice versa, the state says you can't. This country certainly cannot do so, although it has been requested in part.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U119	Arto Aas, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U120	Thank you. Good Mr. Sester! You didn't really answer my question. I ask again: § 594 (7). Horrible legal language is used in this law, horror in the cube, I'd say! Paragraph 7 states that only the supply of electricity for the first generation of electricity by a production plant can be submitted to a less bid. So the only way to come to a less bid is with a completely new one, I don't know with a factory or a wind farm, which is very expensive to build and then subsidised by the taxpayer. And a few older stations with existing production equipment can't come to a less bid. Would you justify that choice? I don't know if it's right or wrong, but it's a very important decision. Would you explain why the option of only new production equipment, which could cost hundreds of millions to run?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U121	Thank you. Previous equipment has already benefited from some kind of support, and the interest of the state is certainly also that there will be new renewable energy producers. So this, too, is why new players are given the opportunity to participate in the less bid. Older equipment owners have already received assistance under some previous support scheme. It's like the path that there was a 12-year cycle, now there's a new scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U122	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U123	Thank you. Since you have repeatedly mentioned these market participants in your speech, and you have now also mentioned clearly defined criteria, perhaps I will be a little more specific. I still have the same article, as well as other materials, i.e. the text of the bill and the explanatory memorandum. It says here that there were no specific bases in the law. It's even been said about an electric drill and a patter that maybe it could be a criterion for Elering. Maybe you'll explain a little how Elering will make those decisions as a private company in the future. And I'm gonna ask you one more question. Did the Commission also consider setting up an independent reviewer? This would not be a private company, Elering, for example, but an independent reviewer established by some kind of cooperation between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and market participants?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U124	Thank you. A little bit like mush and cabbages. And I'm sorry, I can't comment on an article I haven't read myself. In this sense, I find it difficult to answer, but I am trying to understand your question. The second part of your question was actually a request that maybe I comment on what might be the basis for Elering's decision. I can comment on that, not the article. The second part of the question, which did not concern this mystical article, was about whether there would be an independent reviewer. I'm gonna start from a distance. Elering is the one who issues the State aid permit. It's not anyone else, it's Elering. Elering will receive an application and Elering will have to take a decision. No one else can do that, Elering is the one who has to make that decision. In that sense, it can't be anyone else that Elering is independent. It is not inclined towards any market participant, it is independent and has to make a decision. And now that second part of the question, what basis does he have to make his decision? The basis for this has been specifically stated by the European Commission and is set out in Amendment 11. I am saying once again that it sets out different criteria for which it may be decided that, uh, clearly, it qualifies according to the old support scheme. We're talking about the old support scheme all the time. Firstly, as of the end of 2016, one of these activities should have taken place, which I am talking about right now. This is the first criterion. You can't have someone picking up today and telling me I want to do something and I want to be part of the old support scheme. After all, this old support scheme is more likely to be better than the future less-selling scheme that everyone understands. Therefore, indeed, 31 December 2016 was the deadline for one of those activities to be carried out: either the start of electricity generation or the start of the construction work relating to the investment in question, a firm commitment to order the equipment to start production or any other obligation that would render such an investment irreversible. Unreversible! Such obligations shall not include, for example, the acquisition of a property under a production facility, the acquisition of permits or preparatory work. If someone has begun to do only preparatory work, they cannot say that their investment is irreversible. In this sense, the criteria are well established.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U125	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The movement to Estonian Forest Abi and other activists has expressed great concern that this amendment to the Electricity Market Act will increase the risk of the Estonian forest being burned for energy, especially in Aovere. They have expressed this fear with their protest movement and warned the Riigikogu about such premature steps. I also read the biomass theme and wood is included in the biomass. Can you comment on the danger that Estonian timber could face with this legislative amendment? Or is it not at all involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U127	Thank you. I can, and not only can, but I have to. I'm a committee waitress. Yes, this is a topic that we have discussed with our good colleague Rainer Vakra, and we commented on it yesterday on Rainer Radio. If you go deeper into the content, it is actually possible to use biomass freely in Narva power plants at the moment. And that's what they use. This amendment will make the situation much tougher, much more observable, as confirmed by the Head of Eesti Energia yesterday or the day before yesterday in an article. What do I mean? If this law is now passed, first of all, we must not use biomass in domestic consumption. It can only be used for statistical trade, i.e. for sale outside the borders of the Republic of Estonia. Secondly, if there is a transaction with another country in the context of statistical trade, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will analyse how the transaction will affect the transaction before the transaction is concluded. For example, if timber is to be purchased, will the price of timber rise and whether it affects our other industries, etc., such an analysis will be carried out. This analysis is discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on the Environment in the Riigikogu and gives their opinion. And once the analysis has been carried out and the opinion given in the Committee on the Environment and in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the matter will go to the government table, which will take the final decision. And only then can biomass be used in the context of the statistical trade in a given case. What do I mean by that? Looking at those who fear that maybe the forest is being cut too much, the process is being made much more control and nuanced than it is now. There will be more parties who will have to express their views and adopt their positions. In the case of the current law, if there were to be a trade in statistics with, for example, Luxembourg or some other country, everything I have just told you would not be. That's how it's gonna be now. Just so you know, it's more like control gets a lot stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U128	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Your answer to Mr Pevkur's question was mixed up and there was no complete lack of clarity on this issue. The problem pointed out by the companies is that Elering can essentially take the form of a draft bill to decide who owned plants with a capacity of up to 1 MW was the producer on 31 December 2016. You were talking about those vessels. The start of production is clear. The construction works have started to work clearly, must be a building permit, etc. You also referred to the criterion that an irrevocable commitment must be made. But the question is that you can choose from these criteria, and one requirement is this: the applicant has made a firm commitment to order the equipment to start production. Is it that if someone has ordered an electric drill to set up some kind of production equipment at that date, for example, it will qualify as a manufacturer as of 31 December 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U130	Thank you, my good colleague. Of course, that's the most important question. This debate is now being followed by all market participants. As I mentioned earlier, EUR 75,4 million is on the market somewhere. And this question will certainly be asked later in the possible court cases. Once again, I stress that the criteria are well set out, there is no bill of lading. There's no bill of lads! There are well-established criteria on which Elering has to make its decisions. It is all very clear: a fixed date has been defined until which certain decisions could be taken, and a list of criteria has also been defined which form the basis of the scheme's membership. This list, as well as the European Commission's general guidelines on national regional aid, must indeed be taken into account. However, the question is indeed what is considered the beginning of the work. If you look at the feedback from the European Commission, there has also been debate about what is considered to be a job start. The guidelines state that the start of works is either the start of works relating to the investment or the first firm commitment to order equipment or other obligation which renders the investment irreversible, whichever is the earlier. The term does not cover the purchase of land or preparatory work such as obtaining permits and carrying out preliminary feasibility studies. In the case of acquisitions, the beginning of the works means the moment of acquisition of assets directly related to the acquired enterprise. It is very clear here what is meant by the beginning of the work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U131	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U132	Dear Sven! I want to continue with where you stopped answering Aivar Sõerd's question. Here we were talking about getting under the old scheme: that the producer should have started production with the production equipment on 31 December 2016 at the latest or at least done something irreversible, I will not read the list again. However, the European Commission's material also states that the same producer must have legal title to the land. If it is translated into Estonian, it must have the right to build something on a certain plot of land. It doesn't mean buying, it doesn't mean anything, but he has to have the right to build that land. Now that is actually a very big key issue in this whole debate. Why couldn't it be included in this bill for reasons of legal clarity? This would give a completely different dimension to the law, and it is also in the European Commission's material.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U133	Thank you. The whole package of basic terms has been taken over. The whole set of basic terms! It is also defined that, in addition to the basic conditions, the European State Aid Guidelines must be applied. It's very important! That's the point of the argument, isn't it? Whether you want to be a judge here or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U134	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. The first negotiator is Rainer Vakra.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue on the subject of what a good colleague, Krista Aru, started with his question. I believe that we have all received questions from some NGOs or other organisations concerning the future of the Estonian forest, including burning it in Narva power plants. I think that here we should very much acknowledge all those who are increasingly and increasingly looking at environmental problems with greater heartache. I am pleased that yesterday the Chairman of the IRL also stated with regard to Tartu's pulp factory that in a democratic country local residents and local government must certainly be taken into account. You can't cross them. I've been talking about this for a long time, too. I see that these environmental thoughts are reflected in this bill as well. Despite the initial opposition, we were able to agree. As I say, only in theory and only on paper can wood be used for energy in the future as part of the statistics trade. In real life, an analysis is needed; this in-depth analysis is followed by a decision by the Government of the Republic and an open debate in this Parliament, both in the Committee on the Environment and in the Committee on Economic Affairs. This means that since the first cubic metre the whole process is observable, it can be monitored by all residents of Estonia. Anyone who has a heartache for the Estonian forest will be able to follow the finger, who makes these decisions and how. In my opinion, it is crucial that these decisions cannot be made anywhere in the corner of the office, in silence and in darkness, so that later the wise can sigh afterwards, who made such a decision alone. I think that a parliamentary debate on such important issues is absolutely necessary. I have been asked several times why this biomass issue matters so much at all. Then I'm going to answer very simply. Many say that transporting a forest power plant and driving a furnace there is renewable energy. However, in the 21st century, I have said this repeatedly, but steam boiler technology, which is over 200 years old, is not really a renewable energy source. Today's scientific articles no longer consider this type of energy production to be an appropriate climate policy solution. As an ecologist, I am knocking on everyone's conscience here: what does this type of production really mean? When biological fuels are used, the same amount of carbon emitted into the atmosphere is absorbed by plants through photosynthesis. If we still take into account the greenhouse gases emitted during transport and logging of wood, this carbon balance is already becoming negative. And if we also add here the clear cutting method, which is widely used in Estonia, and the greenhouse gas emissions from logging sites due to the drainage of forests, we will get a more negative picture. Therefore, all those people who have been worried about this issue, who have sent us to the Riigikogu and raised this issue in society at large, should be commended. Today I can say with certainty that, at least as long as the Social Democratic Party is in the government, we will not coordinate such decisions, which should lead to mass burning in Narva Power Plants. Whether it is someone else's money or Estonian taxpayer's money, it is a fundamental decision concerning the environment. You can't look at a thing like that through two fingers. I am also convinced that this draft law, which we hope to conclude today in second reading, is structured in such a way that this possibility remains solely on paper and in theory. So, in some ways, it can be said that the drafters of this law have gone to nothing: in real life, we can together stay away from the furnaces of nine times the size of the Estonian forest. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U136	The draft provisions will continue to be discussed by Jaanus Marrand. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft before us has come to second reading as a result of the right long and complex procedure. Unfortunately, it can't be said that it's been made for a long time. The bill has been put together for three or four oses, but it's like a forceful puzzle that isn't going to work in any way right. The problems are actually due to the old electricity market law that has been introduced here. Let us recall the draft number 290, the second reading of which was completed, but then, as we know, it was waiting for the authorisation of State aid granted by the European Commission. Once again, what has happened here is a good example of very bad legislation. This whole thing around the Electricity Market Act has been going on for, like, seven years and maybe it would have gone on. The economic interests are great. Unfortunately, the time for the European Commission's state aid authorisation expired and we could no longer have paid a grant of EUR 53.7 per megawatt-hour, let us remember this number! in the case of renewable energy, Estonia should have switched to less supply as from January 2017. This has happened in some countries, for example in Lithuania, renewable energy support is already paid at 45 euros per megawatt-hour, together with the price of energy. If we were to talk about the support of EUR 53.7 and the price of energy there, we would see what this price would be according to the old scheme. A year ago, this same bill No 290 made a series of promises to renewable energy producers, allowing wind power producers, for example, to extend the implementation of the old scheme even until 31 December 2021. Well, let's keep thinking! 2021 plus 12, that's 2033. Technology has evolved, less offers would bring more favourable prices. What is the reason why we would have to take this kind of grant money out of the people's pockets in 2032? What is the reason?! It's practically not, I don't see any reason. Despite these disputes at the time, however, the second reading was closed and, after quite a while, this authorisation from the European Commission arrived. There, of course, these long steps were drawn to allow such production and support to be paid out firmly. By 31 December 2016, the deadline was 31 December 2016 and by that time the equipment had either to start production or to start basic investment work or to commit to ordering the equipment. At least one of these moves had to be done by then. But in addition, the European Commission's guideline contained a very clear term, legal title to the land, which in translation means the right to build the land where the station would be located. Of course, this whole European Commission approach brought about the need to amend draft 290, which had already passed second reading. And here's the puzzle effect: the button was sewn to the jacket. Of course, in all this context, the passions of renewable energy producers have been heated up and electricity has floated in the air. The question is, who else could fit under the old scheme, where there are very large subsidies? There has been talk of seven projects, but the most obvious question has been the wish of the state company Eesti Energia to establish a Tootsi wind farm with nearly 40 windmills. It is known that the land planned for Toots' wind farm is the subject of several litigation. The protesting companies have, of course, been spurred by their own economic interests, but it is also very clear that they are frustrated by the favourable attitude of the State to its own company and its unwillingness to ensure equal conditions of competition. It would be appropriate to come back to this draft initiated by MKM, where all the other European Commission orientations were followed very closely, but this legal title to the land, or construction law, is not. For what reason? The reason for this was that in the case of a State aid authorisation, the decision-making power would in any case remain with the State aid provider, Elering, who would have to assess the appropriateness of the application. I understand that energy conditions could naturally be assessed by the energy company, but the terms of purely ownership are in other laws. That legal title to the land could be written into the law to have greater legal clarity. It's kind of elementary. Unfortunately, it hasn't been added here. Inevitably, this procedure gives the impression that it was intended to leave the back door open: that a public undertaking which, as if it had built something but which did not have the right to build on this land, would fit under an old scheme which would allow more than twice the amount of renewable energy support to be paid if it were likely to receive less bids. These are not good doubts that the legislator is creating a cash register for a state enterprise, from which a few hundred million euros can be taken at the expense of the consumer's pocket for a period of 12 years. Yes, if you think about yesterday's news, that certain few hundred million in the back pocket of the people and businesses gave the state company the opportunity to offer a significantly higher price in a huge deal and to buy its competitor on the renewable energy market. I do not, of course, blame anything for Eesti Energia, which acts as an entrepreneur and in its own interests. Unfortunately, at the moment I do not understand the legislation of the Riigikogu, which must, I repeat, guarantee equal treatment and a similar legal space for all companies and legal clarity. Unfortunately, this draft is not guaranteed in any way. Nor can it be accepted that there will be an extension of the period for the payment of the excess levy on renewable energy. These few hundred million come out of the consumer's pocket and go to a state company with the help of legislation. It could be much cheaper! With the same amount of aid, it would probably be possible to pay three times as much support for renewable energy as it is now, if the State enterprise really fits into this old scheme. Unfortunately, for me, there was no clarity in this matter over a year of debate. I think that this is not a normal attitude towards free entrepreneurship, and this attitude of the state cannot lead anywhere in the long term. And since there is no clarity, I personally cannot support a draft drawn up in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U138	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. 15 amendments have been tabled for draft 576. All of these have been submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the decision is to take them fully into account. However, let's take a moment to review them one by one, perhaps some thoughts have arisen in the meantime. The first amendment, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth, the tenth, the eleventh. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U139	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U140	Are we talking about Amendment 10?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U141	Eleventh.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U142	Eleventh amendment, okay. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 11th amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 52 MPs voted in favour, with 16 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 11 was supported in this large Chamber in the same way as in the Commission. Let's continue. Amendment 12, as well as the decision by the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the lead committee: take full account. So are Amendments 13, 14 and 15, as well as the decision of the commission, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs: take full account. All amendments to draft 576 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U143	Today's sixth item: Second reading of the draft law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please waitress Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! The draft law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 5 March. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 11 April and the first reading was closed. The purpose of the draft law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest is to establish clearer rules for the conduct of the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest, including the expropriation procedure. In addition to the buy-out of land, additional compensatory mechanisms and compensation will be created for landowners. The Law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest regulates the situation where the State or local government needs land on account of the public interest. In such a situation, the owner of the immovable property generally lacks interest and willingness to dispose of the land and therefore does not constitute a situation on the free market. In the case of fair and adequate compensatory measures, there is a greater likelihood of reaching an agreement with the owner of the immovable property on the acquisition of land in the public interest. Since the conventional acquisition of land is not considered to be a forced acquisition of property, it cannot be regarded as an expropriation either. Consequently, the concept and title of the current law on the expropriation of immovable property will be amended and the scope of the law will be extended to the acquisition of all immovable property in the public interest, both with the consent of the owner and without consent. As regards the amendment of the law, the current principle remains that, before a decision on the expropriation of immovable property is taken, the State must identify all possibilities for acquiring the land by agreement. It also regulates the compensation provided by the arrangement procedure, which should motivate the owner of the immovable property to enter into an agreement. In order to prevent expropriation, the owner of the immovable property is offered various alternatives, in addition to the purchase of the land, such as the urgent procedure, the purchase of the land with an additional incentive fee, the exchange of immovable property and reparation. If no agreement is reached, the last option is to decide on expropriation of the land. During the proceedings of the draft, the Estonian City Government and Jõelähtme Municipality Government and the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association addressed the Economic Commission with proposals and opinions, whose representatives were involved in the discussion of the amendments at the committee meeting. The commission also addressed the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Rural Affairs to obtain the opinion of both committees on the draft, as the draft amends the laws of both committees. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs found that, compared to the current regulation, the proposed regulation does not restrict the rights of owners of immovable property and does not prejudice their legitimate interests. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Rural Affairs stated that the amendments proposed by the draft law to the Land Cadastral Act and the Land Order Act would make the procedure for the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest smoother and more flexible, both for the State and for the owner of the immovable property. In addition, the Commission considers it important that the amendments proposed by the draft act provide an opportunity to improve, in a simpler and less costly way, the errors resulting from the use of different methods of surveying and basic legislation during the land reform process. After discussion of the amendments and voting at the committee meeting and the adoption of procedural decisions, the commission addressed the proposal to amend the regulation of the coercive property to Elektrilevi OÜ. The Commission requested clarification and a position on the proposals submitted by electricity distribution from the representative of the initiator of the draft, who confirmed that, following the explanations given to the representative of electricity distribution, it came to the common conclusion that the regulation proposed in the draft would facilitate the imposition of a compulsory right to property. On 28 May, just before the meeting of the Commission, the Economic Commission also received proposals from the Ministry of Finance concerning the assignment of the cadastral unit, but the proposal submitted by the representative of the initiator of the draft was not accepted. The authors of the draft act took the view that the plan is a vision for the future, the realisation of which depends on different circumstances, and that the intended purpose of the plan can be determined when new cadastral units are set up on the site, which usually means starting to implement the plan. In establishing this principle, the argument that the purpose is one element of the land tax on which the amount of the land tax depends is also important. Estonia has the principle of uniform taxation, which means that the land tax must be paid for actual use. As long as the plan has not started to be implemented, it is not justified to assign a new destination and to levy a land tax on that basis. The initiator's representative also confirmed that the regulation proposed in the draft was previously agreed with the Ministry of Finance. The Commission was also approached by Piret Laur and Martin Vällik, who shared personal experience in the acquisition of the land in the public interest and asked a number of questions concerning the process. The representative of the initiator of the draft act explained that it was impossible for him to comment on the procedure carried out by the Public Road Administration for the acquisition of immovable property and expressed the opinion that this procedure could not have been carried out in the light of the regulation of the Law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest, since it is not the regulation currently in force. The initiator of the draft act promised to prepare a reply to the questions asked in the light of the draft regulation. All proposals and opinions submitted to the committee can be consulted on the Riigikogu website. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest at its meeting on 7 May. The amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions were taken. Triinu Rennu, Deputy Director General of the Land Office, Merje Krinal, Head of the Land Management Department, Ave Kiviberg, representative of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, and Anne Läns, Adviser to the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities. At its meeting on 28 May, the Commission examined three proposals which had been voted on, the wording of which had to be clarified. The draft was sent to the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for technical and linguistic purposes, and the comments of the language editor have been entered in the text of the draft and the list of amendments in agreement with the representatives of the initiator of the draft. As a result of the norm engineering arrangement, the numbering of the sections of the draft was changed in order to rank the laws that the draft amends in alphabetical order. A total of 45 proposals were made to amend the draft, most of which were submitted by the initiator, but also included amendments agreed with the ad hoc groups. The commission decided by consensus to send the draft to second reading today, to propose that the second reading be terminated and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 6 June and then to put the draft to the final vote on 598.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U145	Igor Gräzin, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U146	What led to the birth of this bill? What do you need it for anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U147	Thank you. There have been different objects built in the public interest. And there have been very different contentual disputes during these procedures, where either the road had to be expanded or completely new objects had to be built. And those parties who have been involved in these disputes have found that the current procedural process is too clumsy and do not provide either party with sufficient flexibility to reach the best agreement. Consequently, the draft has been drawn up in the light of best practice, which would also allow the best solutions for the state and landowners to be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U148	Igor Gräzin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U149	I totally agree with you. Indeed, the court of war and the tribunal are effective in this respect, of course, you have the right to, and they are also very flexible. You can shoot down either in the afternoon or the next day, after all, the result is the same. When you said the parties to the dispute weren't satisfied, which side were you thinking about? Half of them have been opposed. And now it's like one side isn't happy. Which side, frankly, isn't satisfied? For whom is this process clumsy? The defence of the right is indeed clumsy compared to the tribunal. But in this case, I don't understand how two opposing parties can find that the procedure so far is wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U150	The parties have not found that the current procedure is wrong. They have found that the procedure so far is not good enough. And neither side has been satisfied. On the one hand, the current procedure provides that land valuation must be carried out in any case and then that the price that comes out of it must be offered. This assessment is costly. If we are talking, for example, about the disposal of immovable property where a very small section of land needs to be found somewhere, then the price is relatively marginal and the landowner does not have much incentive to sell a small section of his property for a few euros, which is of no use at all. But this bill gives new opportunities. It is possible to make a so-called minimum bid, which is sometimes even hundreds of times higher than the one currently made under the old regulation. In any event, it gives the owners a positive effect on the sale of small and very cheap properties at market value. Next, one new option is reparcelling, which was never before. When it comes to a farmer, the money he receives may be secondary to him. It is important for him to have a field where he can carry out his own business. And the new law gives us the opportunity to replace the land he has to give up for an object, at the same value as the land somewhere nearby. Two examples of this. There are a lot of additional opportunities that are now opening up. I'm sure it protects the interests of both sides. This is on the one hand more favourable to the State because it is not necessary to order expensive valuations of overly cheap properties. And secondly, landowners will either get a better price or better compensation for their land going under this object.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U151	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There have been 45 amendments to the draft law during the procedure. What do you think this shows in the Commission and in your view? Was this bill in its original form very poor, didn't satisfy anyone? What was improved by these amendments and for whom?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U153	Thank you. This question also arose in the Commission. This was presented by a good colleague, Toomas Kivimägi, who noted that the initiator of the draft had tabled significantly more amendments than usual and asked MKM why so many of them had been made. Triinu Rennu, Deputy Director General of the Land Office, replied that at the request of the Riigikogu, all technical changes were made in the form of an initiator's amendment, most of them being completely technical. Some section numbers or references or words or compasses were corrected, which were in the wrong place. And the most important thing is that the law is clear and understandable. In short, when the draft was launched, it was poorly prepared in the Ministry, and it was not in the best order of the norm. The content was in place, but there were many technical shortcomings and therefore there are so many amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U154	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have praised this law a lot and said that many things will get better in the future. There are two things that have caught my eye when dealing with people. First, emotions related to a property or a building, or personal emotions. Secondly, it stands out that the values of the properties vary from one region to another. If there is a substitution, do you think the new law will ensure that the emotional value of the object is taken into account to the maximum and that the difference in market values is also taken into account? Doesn't that bring any damage to the owner?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U156	Thank you. I say that this bill has tried to write today's best knowledge that it really does go like this, that a person will get a decent reward for the property he is being expropriated. And when it comes to substitution, the substitution has to be equivalent. In the case of compensation, there is also the possibility that the State will buy the land at a higher price than the market price, in order to compensate for the emotional damage. Of course, all emotions are priceless, but they have also tried to take into account the best practices in the world that have ever been in the process. We hope that the experience gained after the entry into force of the new law will be more positive for people than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U157	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U158	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U159	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U160	I'll start with the last sentence that has taken into account the best practice in the world. I'm saying it's not. The best practice in the world, according to which the world is taught, is, as we know, the third amendment to the US Constitution. There has not even been a reference to it; even less so, it has become an impact on European practice. So there's no best practice. We now began to talk about such things as emotional value. I think the waitress used this expression that the purpose of this bill is not to spend too much money on evaluating things that are too cheap. The point is that what is cheap for the state may not be cheap for a person. And the fact that there is a unilateral transaction in this sense that one party is going to set a price suggests once again that it is a gross violation of the fundamental principles of civil law. The price of the case is precisely what the market is willing to buy it for. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So it is not a price, it is an expropriation, or confiscation or nationalisation. The most interesting story is that the idea of nationalisation comes from the Central Party, which should be kept informed: it should be familiar with the problem of famous forced tenants, in which case this problem of nationalisation and confiscation arose. It seems that Heimar Leng was obviously not introduced to this bill. But let's keep going. The fundamental problems of this bill are not in the 40s, the 50s and not even in the 100s, but in the fact that the general philosophy of this law is basically wrong. If you look at two provisions, § 2 (1) and § 4 (2), you will see that this nationalisation law is based on two factors: firstly, the public interest, and secondly, the public objective. I dare stress, just in case, that the public interest is a private sector category; the public objective is a public sector category. All in all, the result of this law corresponds to the cross product of a hedgehog and a nightingale. All of these other 40 corrections can be expelled or taken in this does not change the fact that the law is wrong in its substance and nature. The Centre Party launched the draft on 5 March. Why did I ask why this law was suddenly needed? But I'll tell you why. Because there was a question of establishing a pulp mill in the public interest in Tartu, building the Saaremaa bridge in violation of the interests of muhulasts, through Rapla and Pärnu to drag Rail Baltic through the lands that these residents value. Totalitarian, or would we say that, a dictatorial government needs dictatorial methods. It's very sympathetic that he's trying to give it the meaning of the law, but it doesn't make any difference. Who determines the general interest, who has formulated it here? Where else would you put it than here? Here, by the way, it has been said that the general interest represents a nota bene!, pay attention! No one, let's just say, just a righteous person, a judge, an opinion leader, a well-known person, for my sake even a church clergyman, anyone, but the only person representing it is the only person who does not have general or even less public interests: it is represented by the Minister. Can you imagine in a particular situation that Minister Kadri Samson, for example, represents some sort of public or general interest? We saw this in the case of the previous regional minister who said that what Tartu and Tartu County think about the pulp mill is irrelevant. Fortunately, the Minister resigned, unfortunately for a stupid reason, and this position is not really relevant at all. But the right time to take down the minister would have been when he announced that the local population could not and must not express public opinion or that it was not public opinion enough. If there is a conflict and these conflicts have arisen and the government is now trying to put pressure on the public, I think we need to discuss this issue. Recently, a law was passed according to which we are now celebrating the day of the municipalities. It was hypocritical all over again. The idea of creating this day was to lie to the local governments first and foremost, to give them the impression that something depends on them. Once again, we are now adopting a law in which the general and public interest is represented by one member of the government, without any legal basis for it. Until we know what the public interest is and who can represent it and what the function of the local government is, any expropriation, the idea of expropriation itself is a step backwards. Did they ask the people of Kunda back in the day if you wanted a cement factory? If Tartu had not now been so united against the pulp mill, it is feared that this pulp mill would have been built. The government had the shame to ask the Tartians why you were against the pulp mill, and the government had the impertinence not to be satisfied with the only correct answer: "What is it to you? We don't want to! ' If we have not resolved who has the right to express the public's general interest, this is an undemocratic, meaningless law whose sole purpose is to start implementing projects that have come to anyone in Tallinn. And no one can imagine that life still exists and is still possible elsewhere in Estonia. It is very difficult for me to be in favour of a law that does not take into account the interests of the majority of Estonian residents and the general public of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U161	Erki Savisaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U162	It's just for the sake of the verbatim report that this bill was initiated not by the Centre Party, but by the Government of the Republic. Secondly, this bill has been developed for a very long time, just during the current government it reached this Riigikogu. This work started years before, and the main leaders and preparers of the new law will certainly know who is involved, including a good colleague, Igor. But I am still convinced that, compared to the current regulation, the new law is more sensible to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U163	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. 45 amendments have been tabled for draft 598, all of them from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the decision is one: take full account. But let's just take a few minutes and go through them one by one. First amendment, proposed by the Economic Commission, decision of the commission: take full account. So are 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18. Amendment 19 - Decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs: take full account. In the case of amendments 20 and 21, the decision is also the same as for amendments 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40. The Committee on Economic Affairs has also tabled amendments 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, decision of the commission: take full account. We have examined the amendments to the draft 598. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U164	Today's seventh item on the agenda: First reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U165	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Traffic Act for processing, which proposes to supplement the Traffic Act with the speciality necessary for the Defence Forces in the medical examination of the driver and the applicant for the right to drive. Each year 700-800 conscripts are trained as drivers of various categories of motor vehicles for the use of Defence Forces reserve units, who are also subject to a prescribed health check in the Defence Forces. The purpose of the amendment is to extend unambiguously to doctors working in the Defence Forces the right to also carry out the health check provided for in the Road Traffic Act. According to the current law, the right to a medical examination has been granted to a family doctor, an occupational doctor and a road medicine committee. General assistance shall be provided to the members of the Defence Forces medical centres, but emergency medical assistance shall also be provided where necessary. As a result, the Defence Forces have also been granted a specialist medical care licence, under which general medical care in the Defence Forces is permitted for all doctors regardless of their profession. To date, health surveillance in the Defence Forces has been carried out in order to grant the right to drive with the knowledge that the medical centres of the Defence Forces operate on the basis of a licence issued by the Health Board in exactly the same way as the family medical centres and, as a replacement for a family doctor, doctors who do not have the qualifications of a family doctor may also carry out the medical examination. However, it has become apparent that the legal provision under which the possibility of replacing a family doctor applies to family doctors operating on the basis of the list does not allow for the same replacement procedure in the Defence Forces. The Ministry of Defence has therefore proposed that the traffic law be supplemented in such a way that the speciality required for the Defence Forces is clearly laid down and that doctors who do not have the qualifications of a family doctor can also carry out the medical examination necessary to prove the right to drive in the Defence Forces. I would ask you to support this bill. Once again, there is a very advanced medical service in the Defence Forces, and since the Defence Forces really prepares a large number of truck drivers, with the driver's papers, it is appropriate to allow doctors working in the Defence Forces to issue this medical certificate as well. As I said, right now, only a family doctor or an occupational doctor can issue it. I believe that it is not very practical, and it does not make any sense to send all 700 people separately in a health check situation where doctors are everywhere in the locations of the Defence Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U166	Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Thanks for the presentation. Madis Milling will make a presentation of the commission, representing the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U167	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister has already presented the content and purpose of the draft, so I will not dwell on it in terms of time savings, perhaps I will not speak the same thing again. But I'll say a few words about what the Minister didn't talk about. I will certainly anticipate a few questions from the floor and say myself that this legislative amendment will not entail any additional costs. However, if this legislative amendment is not implemented, it will entail additional costs to the Defence Forces budget, estimated at EUR 20000 per year. This should be paid for the issue of medical certificates. There would also be significant difficulties in finding drivers in the war-time structure. I will add here the information that, if the conscripts have to leave the unit at their relatively tight training schedule in order to go to the family doctor to obtain this certificate, the integrity and continuity of their training will inevitably be damaged. But now procedural decisions. At its meeting on 15 May 2018, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's session of the Riigikogu on 30 May and to propose that the first reading be terminated. In addition, it was decided to send the draft to second reading by 6 June at the end of the first reading. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10.30 a.m. on 4 June. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-30_U168	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much for the waitress. I will open negotiations to the representatives of the political groups, if that is what you want. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 635. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10.30 a.m. on 4 June. We'll meet tomorrow at 10:00. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 4.18 p.m.
