ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 26 members of the Riigikogu are currently present. Government members in Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister for Defence Jüri Luik and Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U2	The first question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ratas! When you became Prime Minister, you raised quite positive hopes in us that the opposition's proposals would be taken into account and that their initiatives would be taken into account. It has not yet gone exactly as we have wanted, but we continue to offer solutions on various issues. One of them is the channelling of public money to PBK, which has acquired dimensions that are certainly not in any way in our national interest. And we have proposed one solution. Your coalition partners, both representatives of the IRL and social democrats, have also said that the way in which the city of Tallinn directs this money is not going immediately. We have proposed one solution, but the Government of the Republic has denied our bill. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Happy members of the Riigikogu, participants in Question Time! I think it is already worth itself, Mr Herkel, if we can say that there is still a candle of hope burning to find a common part. The beginning of your question was ominous, but it seemed to me that the end came out more positive. So maybe it's still possible to find this joint. I think that we have actually been debating a number of issues with the Free Party, and this is precisely in the direction of finding this joint section. In answer to your questions or questions about Question Time before the Riigikogu, I have quite often quite sincerely said that these are very important topic improvements in Estonian society, such as research and development, bringing cargo ships under the Estonian flag, etc. I will now answer your question about the position of the Government of the Republic. Indeed, the Government of the Republic has expressed its position on this draft. He discussed this at his meeting on 5 April, but we also discussed it seriously at the meeting in the cabinet, because I think that this proposal deserves to be discussed further. And at the meeting we also gave our position on this draft. The government was found not to support the Riigikogu in the wording of the draft initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. The main reasons are primarily legal. First of all, point one: the requirements for ensuring the prudent use of public funds are already included in the other existing laws, in particular, we have in mind the law on the organisation of local governments, which does not make sense to duplicate. I don't think you want to produce more bureaucracy either. Secondly, the restriction laid down in one sentence of that draft is a disproportionate restriction on the sharing of public information. I'm about to have an appointment, so we'll continue the debate on your next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U5	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U6	Prime Minister! It is certainly not a disproportionate restriction. We believe that it is not the task of the local government to finance television programmes or to buy them for money. My question, however, is why you consider it philosophically right that the city of Tallinn, as a user of public money, is essentially pretending to take on the position of free press. And he takes it in such a way that the auditorium does not understand where the content is paid and where the press is. In our opinion, this draft does not in any way restrict the autonomy of the municipalities to the transmission of announcements, press releases and press conferences.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U7	Thank you. I also think that it is not worth doing so, that local authorities will not have the opportunity to give a press conference after their sessions or to develop some important issues. I'm gonna keep answering. The third point, i.e. the reason why we did not accept the proposal, is that the scope of the Financial Management Act of the local government unit does not allow for the establishment of rules on the financing of the individual activities of the local government unit. And fourthly, there are no sanctions in the draft in case of violation of the law, nor any reference to the body that controls compliance with the law. I would add to these legal problems that I am convinced that in many ways there is a question of political culture here. I think this is what both of us, both you and I, sincerely want to improve. But political culture is, in my opinion, extremely difficult to change to some section or paragraph of the law. However, despite our frequent discussions on the Centre Party, I would like to congratulate you and thank you. In its decision on the draft law, the Government stated, among other things, that: The draft has referred to the problem that the local authority or the authority administered by the local authority may currently purchase advertising out of the activities of informing and organising local life as provided for by the Local Government Organisation Act. The Government of the Republic agrees that this is an important issue which needs to be addressed in a legally competent and comprehensive way. As you can see, we also have a common part in this matter entirely in order to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Perhaps it would be a little difficult to ask you questions on this subject if you did not lead the party's Tallinn Council then you could ask why the Prime Minister should deal with it. But since the Prime Minister has taken this role, he will have to endure this issue here. Seeing the numbers of the viewer of ETV+, the question arose as to whether Tallinn could not direct its money to ETV+ in order to increase the number of the viewer. This would be fairer, both from the point of view of the taxpayer and from the point of view of information. Is the Prime Minister aware of the areas in which ETV+ cannot be viewed at all? After all, many operators do not offer ETV+ to their customers at all. Is the Prime Minister of the Republic concerned that Estonia's national television channels are not spreading?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U10	Thank you. I congratulate you because I do not think you asked a very complex question. You said it would be difficult for you to formulate these questions, but you did well, so in any case, praise you. Secondly, I would also like to congratulate you in any case: I think it is good that we know better about the statutory, programmed, platform positions of other parties. It seems to me that you know the structure of the Centre Party to the details. And I think it shows that together we are trying to keep Estonia going. So thank you for that, too. ETV+. Can the Central Party buy some kind of show from there? I am frankly saying that I do not support, under any circumstances, ETV+, which is a state channel, that one, another or third party will buy some form of informative programme from there. If, for example, you had some draft on this table that the Reform Party would like to start buying or distributing some kind of broadcasts from ETV+ for 10000, 20000 or 30000 euros, then I think we should still leave out the national broadcasting. This is actually the principle that if the Reform Party wanted to order programmes, they would not be transmitted. I don't support this kind of show purchase. Now for the second part of your question, this nationwide spread. Yeah, I'm aware of that, and I think it's a problem. This is one of the many problems that the Estonian state has had for several years when ETV2 was first created and then ETV+ was created. It does not spread across Estonia, it is a problem. A corresponding request of EUR 300000 has been submitted for the country's budgetary strategy. In any case, I think it is right to discuss this seriously in dealing with the country's budgetary strategy and to try to find this possibility of funding. So in this respect, we have a common position with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U12	Now Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik answers and asks Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U13	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! Estonia is seeking to increase the volume of renewable energy and different wind farms have been planned for Virumaa. One of them is developed in Totol Eesti Energia and the other is Aidu wind farm, which has run against the obstacle bar: your party-companies ministers, both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Environment, and the Ministry of Defence are working on various obstacles. One of the latest was the creation of a situation where wind farms Aidus, by manipulating the technical parameters of the radar, is like interfering with the work of the radar, but not in the Tools. Why does the Ministry of Defence act as a pretext for the security of the state to create an unequal competitive advantage for the state monopoly over private companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U14	Thank you for that question. Of course, I object to the statement on your question. The Ministry of Defence does not deal with the preference of one company over another, but according to the construction code, planning law, aviation law and also the regulations of the Minister of Defence, we give our assessments, i.e. planning permits, when it comes to building wind farms. And we're based on national defenses, that's the only one that can be taken up by the Department of Defense. There are, of course, other considerations that can be reviewed, for example, by the Ministry of the Environment, and that is their task. There are indeed places like this in Estonia, especially in Ida-Virumaa, where the activities of wind farms can interfere with the work of both radar and radio communication equipment in aviation. I think it is my job, as Minister of Defence, to intervene in such a case, because the legislator has given me such a task or order. So that's where I'm going with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U15	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U16	Thank you. I would like to point out once again that there are no problems with the Tool wind farm, but there are problems with the other wind farm. At the same time, these radar parameters were modified exactly so that one would have and the other would have no problems. But here's another problem. There's been a lawsuit about all this development. As far as we know, a judge was invited to the Ministry of Defence, where he was presented in a tin chamber with state secrets to convince him that the positions of the Ministry of Defence were correct. Do you think it's normal for a judge to be taken to one of the parties in the rule of law on a special visit instead of making these arguments in the courtroom? At the same time, this so-called judge's persuasion was carried out behind closed doors under a state secret label. Do you think this is normal behaviour in the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U17	Thank you. I have to admit, I don't know how to give information about a particular case. Personally, I don't have that information. But the fact is that radio equipment, as well as air-defence radar, especially military radar, is information that is a state secret. Estonian courts deal with a wide range of issues relating to state secrets. Normally, all parties have state secrets permits. These procedures are well developed, and I believe they will work in this case as well. Indeed, there are several trials in progress where both the Ministry of Defence and the Municipality have been sued. I'm not going to read the list here, but there are four processes going on. This, again, I think, is a very good example of the rule of law: it is possible for a company to go to court if it feels that its rights have been violated. I hope that, as with environmental protection restrictions, we will understand with regard to defence restrictions on the other side of our eastern border. For example, comparison with many NATO countries is inappropriate because NATO countries have very different borders and therefore also have very different tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U18	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of Defense! In fact, this whole state secret thing is not very serious. I have often participated in all kinds of classified briefings myself, and I must say that most of the information that is provided there is available as public information. When one party is invited to a "salary briefing" to which the other party is excluded, it inevitably raises doubts that the matter is not balanced. Since we have a number of wind farms that work in Ida-Virumaa, the question remains why this one is suddenly a security threat and the others are not. Is this about ownership relationships, i.e. the owners-developers are not trusted, or what is the question anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U20	Thank you. With this technique we are talking about, it is very important how a particular radar or radio communication device is directed and in which direction interference occurs. For example, for many projects, it is not about layout, but about height. We've given licenses where we've defined how high a wind power device can be. Unfortunately, we are also in the middle of an argument with one of the companies to which we gave such permission, but who chose to build a much higher wind power equipment when passing by. So this is a violation of the terms of this permit. For each specific placement, the authorisation is subject to very specific circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U22	Now Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer and ask Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U23	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! A few days ago, Evgeni Ossinovsky announced his resignation from the government, justifying it with difficulty in carrying out the simultaneous role of minister and party chairman. However, he wisely mentioned that his work was even more complicated than that of the Prime Minister. I think he just didn't know when he said that you had another role: you are also the head of the Tallinn Council of the Centre Party. You, for example, presented Taavi Asa as a mayor candidate and recently recruited Aivar Riisalu as a deputy mayor. Therefore, you are an important decision-maker in Tallinn on black and white. My question is whether and what responsibility you see in the Centre Party and in the light of the corruption cases revealed in Tallinn in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U24	Thank you, good questioner. I must say that we have in some ways been in the same position as you. You've been a candidate for mayor. True, I haven't been, but I've been mayor of Tallinn. You are today the chairman of a political group in the Tallinn City Council. True, I am not the chairman of the group, but I am chairing the Tallinn Council of my party. So it seems to me that Tallinn is lovely and expensive for both of us, and I think it is a good thing. Now, I would, of course, expect you to be able to debate matters concerning the living environment of Tallinn, whether it be public transport, social benefits, education or what you have raised. I don't see a place in Tallinn for corruption. I don't see any place in other municipalities in addition to Tallinn or in state institutions. I don't see any place for corruption in public companies either. Unfortunately, there have been these phenomena, but I think there has been a pretty strong response. So there is no room for corruption. If you ask me if, as the chairman of the party, I will also be responsible for the leadership of the Tallinn Council, I will, of course, bear it. And I think it is commendable that the Estonian police have done a very good and serious job on this issue. It is also important that the mayor has made it clear that full operational cooperation with the police is important to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U25	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U26	Thank you. Let's continue, good Prime Minister. In your role as Prime Minister, you will certainly receive more information and risk assessments from the police and the defence police, including about corruption cases in Tallinn. But as chairman of the Tallinn Council of the Centre Party, you make management decisions on matters concerning Tallinn and the Centre Party and you are defending your own as a central party. Don't you know the weight of a minister's oath on your back if you justify Taavi Asa, Enno Tamme or Arvo Sarapuu? And will you stay with you, i.e. you will continue as head of the Tallinn Council of the Centre Party after several major corruption cases and will not take responsibility for leaving it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U27	Thank you. I say once again that I think this is the right question for you, and here comes the waterfall between your party, the Reform Party and the Centre Party. It seems to me that this chain of command, which is in the Reform Party, is not forceful, it is superpowerful. In your opinion, this kind of behaviour is the right one, and I must say that such a political culture too, that if Kristen Michal says something, it will also be done throughout Estonia. We really do not have this: it is precisely the broad-based involvement of people, I would say, participatory democracy that is important. It is not the case that not all Tallinn's decisions go through Tallinn's council at all. The most important thing, in my opinion, is what the elected representative body of the residents of Tallinn says, which is the council. I would like to put in second parts of the city (former administrative bodies) rather than the city administration, because they involve the community and bring together its opinions, although, of course, the city government makes its decisions. I understand that in your iron grip and inside your party you would like this template to come over to us, but it won't. I'm sure I'll stand against that. As Kristen Michal says, the Reform Party will not be in the Centre Party during my leadership.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Turns out the questions are pretty complicated because we can't get answers. I need to think again about the wording, perhaps it is not good enough, because the answers you are giving may not be right. You're trying to make it look like you're not using your power or your right to do things for the city of Tallinn. If I'm not wrong and I remember correctly, you rushed to a meeting related to Tallinn sometime and crashed. I'd like to ask you again. Taavi Aas has said that he will resign as chairman of the Transport Council. Are you willing to consider resigning as chairman of the Tallinn Council in connection with what happened at Tallinn City Government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U30	Thank you. I'm surprised you're not getting out of this idea that maybe your group chairman should resign from the city council. First of all, about the crash. I very much hope that as few traffic accidents as possible will happen on our Estonian roads, including in Tallinn, ideally will not happen at all. I understand that this accident is part of your party, and I think you have a lot of teeth. I don't know how you would have wanted this thing to end then. It was a happy accident because people didn't get hurt or when they did, quite a few. In answer to you, Taavi Aas has assumed responsibility and resigned as chairman of the board of directors of this company. Point one. Point two is whether I trust Tavi Asa. How interesting that we focus on Tallinn in the Riigikogu Question Time, but there is nothing to do with it, it is a large municipality, and when asked, I will of course answer. He has been in various positions in the Tallinn city system since 2005. And I think the most important thing is that he has always done this job with motivation, vision and integrity. The best fact is that in those years, when he has done this work, no one has questioned his honesty. He has stood up for the interests of the city of Tallinn, so that its residents, whether in kindergartens, schools, public transport or environmental matters, would benefit from the development of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U32	Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson now answers Enn Mere's question. Let me remind you so much that the question must be asked within one minute. Please, Enn Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister. One might say that for the giants, the connection to the mainland is a vital condition for life, but almost every year there have been some obstacles. There are two possible ways of deepening the Rye Canal: one is trawling, which is, how to say, cheaper and easier, and which does not last that long, and the other is deepening. I listened to an interview with the Maritime Administration about a week ago. They said the Rye Canal couldn't be deepened if the channel wasn't completely shut down. In this case, the shipping line Heltermaa will be completely blocked. My question to the Minister is, wouldn't it make sense to think about it a little more innovatively? Why can't these dredging work be done to put this mechanism, whether it's a sinker or a knock, on some kind of lighter? When the ship comes, the ferry, it goes sideways, makes room. And this...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U34	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U35	Thank you, Mr Enn Meri, and welcome to Parliament. I think it's very nice that you asked the question, which I'm sure, under other circumstances, would have been asked by Andres Ammas. I hope that we will have the same good working cooperation that I had with Andres. Anyway, I wish you strength! The deepening of the Rye Canal is indeed one of the most important issues at the moment. The Maritime Administration has continuously carried out surveys to map the depth of the waterways in the canal. As early as last year, when the final survey was carried out, i.e. on 1 December, it was clear that this year's deepening work would have to be carried out. It is not enough just to waddle, or disperse, this currents into the canal, that the sediment must be removed. This can be done in different ways. It is possible to do more quickly, which means that the work will take place during the day, leaving Heltermaa and Tiiu and Leiger coming to Heltermaa should land again in Virtus during this time and not be able to go to Rohumaa. It would be a faster version and a day's work. There is also a slower version in which work can be done if the barges do not drive, perhaps at night. This possibility has also been taken into account. This would mean that dredging ships should be hired for a longer period of time and probably more expensive work, but such an opportunity exists. In fact, we are based on the choice of this version, whether we are doing faster and cheaper or making ferry connections more expensive and at night, including the input of the giants. I already spoke to the Chairman of the Hiiumaa Council last week, and next Friday it will certainly be one of the topics of our meeting in Hiiumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U36	Enn Meri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U37	I just hope the money doesn't stop it. It would still be very good to do it at night or to choose the option I called: move this mechanism when the ferry comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U38	As I mentioned, the necessary funds for deepening are planned in the budget. In some ways, it may become more costly because, in addition to deepening, winter conditions have created a desire to carry out trawling quickly in April. Last November, the measurements of the Maritime Administration showed that a wall of a lasting nature had emerged, and at the level of the working level, at the level of experts from the Ministry's Aviation and Maritime Department and the Maritime Administration, it was found that trawling would not solve the problem, so the focus was only on deepening. We look forward to the official survey of the Maritime Administration. On a voluntary basis and on a personal initiative, this weekend, a private limited company surveyed the part of the Rye Canal, where there is no ice. I've asked a lot of people why the Maritime Administration doesn't do this. The reason is very simple: the Maritime Administration does survey work with a towable sonar and can only be done if there is no ice. There's still ice in half the Rye Channel. Why does ice stop this work? Very simplistic is the reason that sonar is one glass stick and if it can damage it doesn't even have to break down, even strong scratches are bad, there is damage to the whole mechanism, a very expensive surveying technology that would cost EUR 200000 to replace it. So the Maritime Administration is now waiting for the ice conditions to go away, and then it's quick to take measurements. On April 9, or this week, he announced a call for tender to quickly find a trawler when spring surveying shows that trawling is also necessary. This may increase the total cost initially planned at the end of last year, but we will find this extra cost covered by the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U39	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I understand there is money, and you also foresee the possibility of extra money. How much could this maximum amount be? I understand that pre-measurement has been done, but there are more to be done. Are you also prepared to tell us the expected time for these work to take place? And also, you referred to asking the giants for advice. What exactly is the question, and in what form are you waiting for an answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U41	The surveying has not required any extraordinary planning in the state budget, as the Maritime Administration has carried out measurements at the Rye Canal all the time, regularly, every week. True, the last survey was on December 1, because after that, ice conditions prevented us from doing so. This year's deepening work is planned at EUR 400000 and has been based on an expert assessment of how much they could cost. The actual cost will, of course, be shown during the procurement process. Since the last deepening work was carried out in 2014, some kind of base that could be the order of magnitude, we have. True, as I mentioned earlier, there are different criteria here. We're trying to do all of this on the basis of science as much as possible. As a result, the Maritime Administration has also approached the newly established geology service to map out the geological bottom of the sediment. This information will be added to the procurement so that those who come to do the work will know what they need to lift out of the ground. Now, when could this happen? In November, when it was clear that the resulting wall was of a lasting nature, the Maritime Administration began to make the necessary preparations. He submitted to the Ministry of the Environment an application for a special permit for the use of water, which is necessary to lift it out of the soil, and received that authorisation in mid-March. As a result of the environmental restriction, this authorisation will take effect from 1 August. I have been in direct contact with the Minister for the Environment on 1 August since this authorisation was issued and I have asked that there may be exceptions. But the Minister for the Environment cannot make exceptions to the dredging work, because they have a serious impact on fish spawning sites. The Ministry has been moderately flexible and has allowed trawling to take place until 1 May. The in-depth deepening work will certainly take place in August of this year. These dredgings have also been planned for 2020 and 2022, because the currents bring the sediments back there over and over again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U42	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U43	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers the question asked by Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! When you took office, you promised a new political culture, one of which was to include listening to the people and taking into account the people. We now see that we have had a number of demonstrations against Rail Baltic. Yesterday, a letter came from 424 prominent social figures, with whom hundreds more would surely have joined if they had collected signatures a little more actively. We have a very clear mobilisation of the people in connection with the Tartu pulp mill. We have a crowd mobilized because they're against the closure of Valga and Põlva maternity units. We have been called upon by the people to resign Kadri Samson in connection with this same ferry traffic between Hiiumaa and the mainland. We have had a demonstration to restore the popular initiative. My question is very simple. These should be very clear signals that the government is obliged to react and take into account their moods. But we don't see any government...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U45	That was a question. I ask the Prime Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U46	...reaction. Why aren't you counting on the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U47	Today's government will certainly take account of the people of Estonia. We are based on the logic of the Constitution, but also on the simplest logic that the people of Estonia are the highest power. If you now ask me, as the chairman of the party, then the Centre Party will certainly stand for the principles that it has stated. Let's take the same Rail Baltic. In 2005, the Centre Party declared that we were going to start preliminary work on the European track gauge for the construction of the southern high-speed rail railway Rail Baltic, and we are supporting passenger train traffic. That was in 2005, already 13 years ago. In 2015 it was written on our electoral platform: connecting Estonian railways to the European railway network, supporting the Rail Baltic project, and restoring and developing the local railways. There were many nuances about your question. Let's get Rail Baltic first. As far as I know, there have been 86 public debates in three counties at the time the county plans were drawn up, involving over 4200 participants. They have taken place between 2013 and February 2018. Now, you also asked about the maternity units. I've said I don't think they should be closed in Põlva and Valga. I have been there, I have met the Chairman of the Council, members of the Supervisory Board and members of the Management Board, and I have said that if you want the maternity department to continue here, I am ready to come to the table and find these financial opportunities. No one's contacted me from there...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U49	...and didn't say they wanted those maternity departments to continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U50	Mart Helme, the point of clarification. In one minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U51	Yeah, I always have a hard time with that, I'm so sorry! But you didn't really answer my question as to why you didn't consider the people. You bring me statistics here on how many meetings there have been. We can meet a lot anywhere, but are there significant results in these meetings? And you're giving examples here that you already supported Rail Baltic in 2005, which hadn't been mentioned yet, but you can't repair the Lelle railroad section. And from the President's direct election promise you have in the program, you have also withdrawn. So why aren't you counting on the people? Why are you breaking your promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U52	Thank you. I think our timeline is just a little different in terms of parties. In 2005, of course, there was already a debate on how to unite Estonia, and one thought was the same Rail Baltic. If you ask for opinions, I know that the study was carried out by the Factum & Ariko in January 2018. According to this, Rail Baltic will definitely support 16% of the project, and rather 36% of the people will support it, with 52% in total. Rather, it does not support 19% of the project and it certainly does not support 14% of the people, so 33% are opposed. 14% of people do not have a position and 1% have not heard of the project. True, in April 2017 there were 58% of supporters and 29% of opponents and 58% and 21% in autumn 2016 respectively. Now, when it comes to listening to the opinion of the people, I remember one of many examples: how much we discussed where the new Setomaa municipality should be. The question was whether Võru or Põlva County. I think the government solved this in the right way. People in Võru and Põlva County were asked what you wanted, i.e. where the municipality of Setomaa should belong. The answer was to Võrumaa, and so it is today. Next, I would say that EKRE has come into the Centre Party boat on certain issues. And the fact that we have received one of your allies on the issue of direct presidential election is, in my opinion, a very right step, Mr Helme. It is good that you support the idea of direct electing our President. In my opinion, the EKRE also supports the regularisation of the popular initiative at national level, which has been the idea of the Centre Party for more than ten years. And thank you for being with us on this, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U53	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! A few days ago, we heard that Jevgeni Ossinovski was tired and resigned from the government minister. The Centre Party was the party that opened up the government: the ministerial exchange quite often. Being a minister is one of the highest missions in the nation's service, the most responsible task. Please tell me why this has happened, that the current government, which is fighting like a stagnation government, has become a government where ministers go in and out the door. Maybe I understand what it means that you don't like stopping government. Since, in the near future, there will be no more two political party leaders in the government who have said that the party is more important to them than serving the people, I will ask you straight: how long will you be in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U55	Thank you. First of all, of course, you are right that this stagnation occurred during the previous government. I think it's a dead end. The economic policy of the previous government and it seems to me that trust between partners had also been broken, everything had stopped. The current government has really dared to decide, bringing out new very good ideas in Estonian society. For example, the biggest change in tax policy, an increase in the tax-free minimum to 500 euros, clearly wins 75-80% of the Estonian working age population. This really is a very big change compared to the actions of the previous government, which did not dare to take principled positions and, according to your own words, made such fine-tuning. Let's just take the reform of the Health Insurance Fund, how much was going on between the earth and the sky, how to solve these issues in principle. We have agreed that the state will pay the share of health insurance for old age pensioners, i.e. 13%. The Health Insurance Fund currently has over 200 million extra euros. In the next four years, the waiting lists will be shortened. These are major decisions that have certainly led to three political parties: the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the Social Democrats and the Centre Party. In any case, I congratulate Mr Ossinovski, even though you want to attack him here. On the contrary, I commend him for being a very strong minister. He has been one of the team players behind these decisions, fundamental changes. The fact that he has chosen this, I would say, also the statesmanly way of completing the state budget strategy and then coming to the Riigikogu is his choice, and I respect that choice. You asked about me. I have the strength to continue as Prime Minister and Chairman of the party. I think that we, the party, are coming up with the strongest programme for the future. I have a vision. So don't worry about me! We will continue to work together, as we have done here in briefings or answering questions. And I think that life will get better in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U56	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U57	And now Prime Minister Jüri will ask Ratas a question in Taavi Kõiva.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I listened with interest to the praise of Evgeny Ossinovski. I dare disagree on what concerns him as a strong Minister of Health. I think that the Minister for Health, whose word absolutely does not pay at the closure of Valga or Põlva maternity departments, has not actually been in Estonia before. And I hope I'm not in the future. I also hope that the next minister will resolve this crisis on the ground. But my question is that already a year and a half ago, the previous government has agreed on a number of important changes to the pension system, which, among other things, will help to retire more flexibly and change the motivation so that people can work longer. These are important and good things. For a year and a half nothing happened, and now the Riigikogu came with exactly the same proposals. In the meantime, what was going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U59	Thank you. I want to say here in front of you that I think that Taavi is a statesman in the garment. The fact that Mr Rõivas raised the issue of very important pensions today shows, in my opinion, that we can actually hold an ideological debate here. And that's the big difference between the Central Party and the Reform Party. What's the difference? It is our wish that this inequality, which begins to be paid, should not be passed on, I would even say, would not increase for people of retirement age. Consider some examples. Teachers, nurses, rescuers, militias, all the workers I've called are doing their job with their hearts. They have chosen it according to their hearts, a very high sense of mission. And all this means working for the Estonian state and the Estonian people. These posts require a high level of education and very serious training. But we know that they do not guarantee a high salary, which means that inequality will increase when these people retire. We are against these little pensions. And I think this is a very important ideological debate. What's happened? During this year and a half, work has been done, this bill has been developed. I'm sure we'll continue this debate. I'm about to have an appointment. So I think it is very good that we are having an ideological debate. You say these people shouldn't get a higher pension, we say they should. In total, it's up to the higher power to decide. In answer to the previous questioner, I recall seven ministers in the last government of Taavi Kõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U60	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U61	Thank you. Well, then, we will have an ideological debate, although my question was that for a year and a half nothing has been done in the area of pensions. Maybe you should dim the speakers a little bit so the questions can be better answered. But I think it's quite inappropriate to say that the Reform Party doesn't want to raise pensions. I would remind you that we also raised pensions during the crisis. And the kind of thing you did last year, i.e. you applied higher taxation to pensioners, has not been done by any government in Estonia before. This is a first, and I think we can have an ideological debate about that. But my question is a continuation of your answer. As agreed in the previous government, teachers earn more than the average wage in Estonia. If so far there has been such a principle that an honest salary increases pensions, the same teachers will also lose with a new pension formula. What are you gonna tell them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U62	Thank you. First of all, I say that you also understand that there has never been such a large tax exemption for pensioners as there is 500 euros per month of income tax-free minimum in Estonia before. The truth is that we have also been working on increasing the income of pensioners. This same tax-free minimum gives a large proportion of pensioners an additional pension of up to EUR 16.8. I am also pleased with the decisions made in the past that older people receive additional monthly support for a child or children. I also welcome the fact that the current government has managed to cut red tape. Older people do not have to submit a tax-free minimum or income tax exemption application themselves, as it was before. It has become apparent that there are very many thousands of pensioners in the country who have received fewer pensions in the last three years. I also welcome the latest indexation, which has led to a 7.6% increase in pensions. True, I don't think that's enough. You asked what these major changes were. First of all, we have wanted pensions to be sustainable, fairer and more flexible. What, then, are the changes resulting from the pension reform? The retirement age starts to rise according to life expectancy and can be retired five years before and even after the so-called right time. In some period, half of the pension amount can be withdrawn or, in the meantime, the pension can be suspended in order to obtain a higher sum later. In the first pillar of the pension, the impact of pay and the role of seniority will be reduced. Here, I think there is an important difference, a place where we have an ideologically completely different opinion. Next, the second pillar remains dependent on pay and, as we know, we are opening up the possibility of paying the second pillar again to those born in 1970 to 1982.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U63	Thank you. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U64	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The government governed by the Centre Party is, in fact, the first government in the history of the Republic of Estonia to have gone against the incomes of pensioners, i.e. pensions, in general in good times in the economy. Over 50000 pensioners have received higher taxation. I am saying that this is a rather cynical approach, especially in a situation where we need more experienced people on the labour market and where being active keeps people in shape. As early as January, when this thing came out, you apologized, Kaia apologized, many others apologized, and you promised to change it. At the moment, the Riigikogu stands at the will of the coalition to abolish the reform party's draft for higher taxation of pensioners. When will the coalition support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U65	Thank you. I don't agree with you at all. I think, on the contrary, that the steps we have taken to increase the income of older people, to make their shopping basket more secure, have been the greatest during this government. The same example of the income tax-free minimum, point one. Additional support for prescription medicinal products just two points. Our decisions regarding public transport, with a better ticket price, point three. Point four: Support for families with children, which is always important for older people, both grandmothers and grandfathers. These are actually examples of where incomes have increased. In addition to what I said before your party partner, Taavi Rõivas, answered the question that pensions have risen by 7.6% on the basis of the last indexation. So we actually see improvement in all positions. It is true that certain older people whose income, both salary and pension, exceeds a certain limit are asked by the state to contribute. Very many of these people work specifically in the education sector, in the cultural sector and in the medical sector, and the government has foreseen wage increases in all these sectors: teachers, cultural workers, as well as those in the medical sector. And I think we should definitely move on with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U66	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U67	Minister of Defence Jüri Luik answers the question asked by Ain Lutsepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The world's natural and industrial disasters and armed conflicts have given rise to a comprehensive concept of population protection, providing protection in the face of both civilian and military threats. I therefore ask what part of local governments is in Estonia, their responsibilities according to the broad approach of national defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U69	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I would like to thank you for the fact that you have for a very long time kept the focus on broad-based defence, especially population protection. This is indeed a very important issue. I begin by saying that the Ministry of the Interior is the main coordinator of local governments' work according to Estonian law. But, of course, the Department of Defense has a very direct interest in how this work is coordinated. The municipality is the closest to people and has the means to behave in a crisis situation, and it is also familiar with local circumstances. According to the extensive national defence approach, the task assigned to municipalities is to ensure the availability of certain vital services, public order and protection of the population. And when you look at the Local Government Organisation Act, there is, in fact, another very important task: to provide food services, health care and many other support functions for evacuations. Now, if we come back to the national defence approach, the local governments still have very specific tasks relating to helping with the organisation of military defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U70	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Is there also a need for a 'fresher legal approach' here so that the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, etc., would be prepared for greater cooperation at municipal level?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U72	Thank you. You are right: in fact, it would be necessary to clarify the laws on the defence issues of your local authorities. Take, for example, the procedure for evacuating the same persons. The precise tasks of the local government are not defined by law, which is why it would be extremely important to draw up such a draft law. This would also lead to the possibility of defining the relevant staff. Of course, it is also a question of finances: for everything that is linked to the state's activities, the state must, of course, also guarantee the corresponding finances.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U73	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! If you look at our broad-based concept of population protection, what are the most important risk factors or points that you can see from the perspective of the Ministry of Defence and the Minister when this concept is implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U75	Thank you. I believe that the concept is very well written, drafted and everything necessary is recorded there. Of course, it is very important that these tasks are practiced in practice. The soon-to-be ground-defense training on Siil will provide such an opportunity. There, among other things, we are practicing cooperation with the Defence League and local governments, especially considering that our main contact with local authorities is the Defence League. The Defence League is also always represented in the Local Government Crisis Committee, which takes action in the event of some kind of crisis or emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U76	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U77	We still have so much time that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kadri Samson, can answer one question from Arno Silla. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. At the moment, it seems that this transition to free public transport is being prepared in a bit of a hurry. Wouldn't it be right to set up a group of experts to seriously analyse these transition options? That's one. Secondly, should this transitional period not be extended? The right deadline would be 1 January next year, and not 1 July this year, then this transition would not be such a rush or a struggle.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U79	Thank you, dear Arno Bridge. You are a south-eastern Estonian man, and you still had Igor Taro as the governor of the neighbouring county last year. Last spring, he wrote a letter to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, on behalf of all the county elders, saying that we, the county elders, are prepared to introduce it on 1 May 2017. Now we've prepared it for a long time in the year 2018. From 1 January, all of Estonia is covered by public transport centres. We no longer have rural governments to organise public transport, but there are specialist public transport centres where representatives of each municipality are involved. In addition, the Riigikogu has also adopted a budget. Last year, 36 million regular kilometres were driven by all Estonian county buses on 365 days, and it cost 33 million euros. This year, the Riigikogu has provided 34.8 million for public transport. In addition, a further 5.5 million tickets will be collected during the first half of the year. At the same time, we realise that this year we have more than EUR 40 million to finance bus transport, which can cover the price of bus tickets, but also increase bus traffic. The way in which this bus traffic needs to be intensified is for public transport centres to decide. I very much agree with you that any expert analysis and any further discussion will always be of benefit. I think that the so-called grassroots experts are in these public transport centres, but the Road Administration, which has been involved in public transport for decades, also offers a higher level of expertise. And we can reasonably move forward in such a long planning key and with the necessary funding from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U80	Filigranne, it's 2:00! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U81	Honourable Riigikogu! We'll start the Wednesday session on the 11th working week. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? No, I don't. Incoming check, please! 74 members of the Riigikogu are in plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U82	The first item on our agenda is the third reading of the Act amending the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (the period of validity of the digital identity card). I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on Identity Documents initiated by the Government of the Republic 569. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 569 as a law, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The Act amending the Identity Documents Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U83	The third reading of the draft law amending the Defence Union Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Defence Union Act and the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 593. Please take a stand and vote. There were 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft as a law, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The Act amending the Defence Union Act and the Income Tax Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U84	Please calm down! Second reading of the draft law amending the Bankruptcy Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 575. The rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs is Liisa Oviir. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U85	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, As the lead committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft at its two meetings on 19 March and 2 April. The first meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs was attended by Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Taavi Rõivas, Toomas Vitsut and Valdo Randpere. In addition, Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, Kristiina Padu, Adviser to the Department of Private Law, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankrupt Directors Terje Eipre, Representative of the Estonian Banking Association Raimo Juurikas, and Head of the Legal Department of the Financial Supervision Authority Siim Tammer. Linnar Liivamägi, adviser to the Committee on Legal Affairs, explained in his introduction that no proposals were submitted by the deadline for submitting amendments, but the Financial Inspectorate, the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators and the Eesti Pank Association had submitted their opinions on the draft. Terje Eipre, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators, presented their proposals and pointed out that the temporary administrator was doing a very great job. Its tasks are first of all to determine the creditor's financial position and to assess its insolvency. It must ensure the preservation of the company's assets and the operation of the company, i.e. to see on a daily basis what the board member is doing and to actually coordinate all its activities on a daily basis. It must also report to the court and identify the causes of insolvency and whether or not it is a serious mismanagement, whether or not there are criminal offences, etc. Therefore, according to the Law Enforcement Tribunals and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators, it is important that the temporary administrator receives the remuneration of his temporary administrator after the end of his work and the entry into force of the order. That's well accounted for in the bill. According to the bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators, it is also good that, according to the draft law, in the case of a private limited company which has not paid contributions, the court may determine that the shareholder will pay the remuneration of the temporary administrator. To a large extent, the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators supports this draft and hopes that it will be dealt with quickly, as this amendment is allowed to be dealt with as a matter of urgency, yet it has taken several years to do so. Raimo Juurikas, representative of the Estonian Banking Association, then received the floor, who said that a more thorough analysis should have been carried out in order to take account of the proposal relating to the activities of the temporary administrator of the Law Enforcement and Bankrupt Management Board. The proposed amendment to § 23 (7) of the Bankruptcy Act would in some way be counterbalanced by the draft, in order to ensure that the person who paid the amount imposed by the court in order to avoid the collapse of bankruptcy proceedings would have the right to challenge the order by which the court ordered the temporary administrator to pay a fee and reimbursement of expenses. In addition, the following question arises as regards the change of the insolvency administrator and the imposition of remuneration, for example, if the first insolvency practitioner has adequately spent the money, creditors will also have to pay the costs of the subsequent administrators. Siim Tammer, Head of the Legal Department of the Financial Supervision Authority, then received the floor, who stated that the Financial Supervision Authority had expressed its opinion on the remuneration of the insolvency administrator and on the remuneration of the liquidator of the bank. The Financial Supervision Authority does not support the amendment intended to apply the provisions of § 65 (4) of the Bankruptcy Act when determining the remuneration of the insolvency administrator and considers that the remuneration to the insolvency practitioner of a credit institution should be primarily and more situation-based. Jaanus Karilaid proposed to continue the examination of the draft amendments at the meeting of the Commission on 2 April, and so the Commission decided in a consensual manner. The second hearing took place on Monday, April 2. This time Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Olga Ivanova, Raivo Aeg, Taavi Rõivas, Toomas Vitsut and Urve Tiidus took part. In addition, Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, and Kristiina Padu, Adviser to the same department, were invited. Commission advisor Linnar Liivamägi noted that last time the Commission discussed the draft 575, all the proposals submitted were examined and a table of amendments was drawn up on the basis of this discussion. The Commission subsequently took the following decisions: Firstly, the Commission unanimously decided to change the title of the draft and to formulate it as follows: 'the law amending the Bankruptcy Act and other laws'. Second, the Commission consensually decided to supplement the draft with the following new paragraph 2: 'The Court shall determine the remuneration and reimbursement of the expenses of the interim administrator even if the person submitting the application for bankruptcy withdraws the application after the appointment of the temporary administrator but before examining the application for bankruptcy by the court. ' Thirdly, the commission made a consensual decision to supplement the draft with the new paragraph 3 of § 1, according to which the debtor, the applicant for bankruptcy, the person who paid the deposit and the temporary administrator may lodge an appeal against the order on the remuneration and reimbursement of expenses of the temporary administrator. The fourth decision, which was unanimously taken by the commission, was to supplement the draft with the new § 2 'amendment of the law implementing the Law Act and of the law amending other laws (amendment of the fee for the maintenance of the technology network) ', by which the year '2018' is replaced by '2019' throughout the law. The fifth decision, adopted by consensus by the commission, was to amend § 2 of the original text of the draft text and to formulate it as follows:'(1) Paragraph 119 (4) is amended and worded as follows:'((4) The remuneration of liquidators shall be determined by the court in the light of the proposal of the Financial Supervision Authority. The amount of the fee may not exceed 1% of the total amount of debts, assets sold and claims settled by creditors on an annual basis. The remuneration shall not exceed the average remuneration paid by the operating credit institution to the assistants of the liquidators, including experts and auditors, to persons working or operating in the relevant positions. '; 2) Paragraph 126 (7) is amended and worded as follows:'((7) The remuneration of the insolvency administrator of a credit institution shall be determined by the court in the light of the proposal of the Financial Supervision Authority. The amount of the remuneration may not exceed 1% of the amount of the sale and redemption of the bankruptcy assets and the amount received as a result of the administrator's other activities and included in the assets of the bankruptcy. Paragraph 651 (4) of the Bankruptcy Act does not apply when determining the remuneration of the insolvency administrator of a credit institution. '. ' The Committee on Legal Affairs then took procedural decisions. All four decisions were taken in a consensual manner and were the following: it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 April 2018, that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed, by 18 April 2018 and that the draft be put to the final vote. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U86	Questions for the waitress. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U87	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress! Personally, I haven't been involved in bankruptcy proceedings. Well, the subject matter and the sections that we are dealing with here are written in a rather complicated legal language. Can you be very clear on the benefits of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U88	In fact, the purpose of this law is still very specific. It is not intended for ordinary citizens; it is intended primarily for insolvency practitioners in order to make their work easier and clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U89	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U90	Thank you. Can you at least tell us what costs this bill will entail for the authorities? Here are also the terms of that 'if' etc. How should this procedure affect our authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U91	Thank you. The cost aspect was not mentioned at either meeting of the Commission and was not put on a separate table by any of the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U92	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Five amendments have been tabled for draft 575 and are all from the lead committee. Let's look at them: first, second, third, fourth and fifth. The second reading of Bill 575 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U93	First reading of the draft law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest initiated by the Government of the Republic. Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, initiating waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U94	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am here before you to introduce the draft law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest initiated by the Government of the Republic. Our task is to ensure the country's sustainable development. In the case of infrastructure, this means developing existing networks, but also creating new ones. From the point of view of national security, it is important to build an eastern border, for which the country needs land and it needs it at a specific location. This is where the interests of the state and the individual conflict. Acquisition of immovable property in the public interest is permissible only in a situation where the public good is more serious than the damage suffered by the landowner, and the State is obliged to pay fair and immediate compensation to the landowner. The law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest replaces the current law on the expropriation of immovable property. The current regulation no longer meets society's expectations because it does not provide adequate compensation for the land, and there are no alternative options for buying out land ownership in the current regulation. The Law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest provides that it is a process of negotiation with the owner for the acquisition of immovable property. Only if the owner's consent is not obtained will it be decided to expropriate the immovable property. Maybe focus on the agreement. According to current practice, expropriation has been used in only a few cases so far. Therefore, the public interest acquisition of immovable property has so far been the main focus of the agreement and will continue to be so. Greater emphasis is placed on reaching an agreement between the state and the landowner. If the landlord seeks compensation in cash, he shall be offered a remuneration consisting of the value of the immovable property and compensation for the immediate loss of property and loss of income. The principle of compensation for damage means that the situation of the person suffering the damage must be as close as possible to a situation where his immovable property would not have been acquired. If an agreement is reached with the landowner, there will be an additional 20% incentive fee. The purchase of land for road expansion has been confirmed by such practice, since the accuracy of the assessment report is generally 20%. These are the most difficult cases where a person's place of residence is to be acquired in the public interest. In such a case, additional compensation is provided to compensate for the emotional damage involved, which is an additional 10%. In the case of very small cuts, an offer is made for an urgent procedure for a fixed fee. In such a case, the valuation will not be carried out and it will be possible to conclude a sales contract immediately at the price offered. Since all landowners do not want to give up land ownership, alternative options are offered: land management, reparcelling and land exchange. In the course of the land management process, the boundaries of the immovable property will be changed in agreement with the owner and this will allow the land necessary for the State to be replaced by another land. For example, the advance negotiations of Rail Baltic have revealed that 60% of landowners have expressed an interest in obtaining land compensation. Since land is a limited resource, it is understandable that farmers and forest managers are not interested in financial compensation but in replacement land. Nor are they interested in the fragmentation of their land units. Figuratively speaking, if the new infrastructure splits up the land units, land management will allow for the regrouping of the land. In agreement with landowners, the aim is to achieve a situation where the land used by one person would remain on the side of the railroad. This reduces the need to make long detours between rural units using agricultural techniques, helps to save farmers' management costs and increases road safety. Land management will thus also help to mitigate the negative impacts of the construction of new infrastructure on the living and natural environment. There are situations where the exchange of immovable property is reasonable and practical. Since the exchange of land has not been successful so far, the draft restricts the possibility of exchanging immovables with different destinations and with different development potentials. It follows from the principle that the immovable property to be exchanged must be similar in its intended use and must be located in a similar market area. In the event of exchange, no incentive fee will be paid, as the exchange will provide an equivalent deposit and thus the situation of the owner will not deteriorate. If no agreement is reached with the landowner, the expropriation shall be decided for the consideration already established during the proceedings and no additional incentive fee shall be paid. It is important that the transition from settlement to expropriation takes place as economically as possible. The holder of the immovable property shall be paid the fee and, if his account number is not known, the fee shall be deposited in the account of the Ministry of Finance. The property of the immovable property shall be taken over after payment of the fee. The obligation shall be imposed when the land can be used for its current purpose and the acquisition of the land is therefore not justified. The enforcement will make it easier, in the public interest, to tolerate utility networks on private land. The obligation is generally imposed by a decision of a local authority in favour of a particular person and determined the manner in which he is entitled to use the immovable property. For example, there is a right to install a power line in the public interest. Of course, the question may arise as to whether the compensation paid by the State for the acquisition of land is justified. I am sure that this is necessary because it is essentially a forced sale, not a free market situation. A fast agreement will help the country save time and costs. However, the current practice of acquiring land has been uneven. Uniform and clear rules will help to ensure that landowners are treated equally in different procedures. Thus, the landowner will be offered more opportunities, the principles for determining the value of immovable property will be harmonised and the bureaucracy of the state will be reduced in the process. Amendments to other laws are necessary both to harmonise the law and to introduce alternative options for the acquisition of immovable property. The amendments to the Land Management Act give the State the right to carry out land management and facilitate the reparation plan. Quality cadastral data is a prerequisite for the land management process. The amendments to the Land Cadastral Act help to improve the quality of cadastral data and their thorough consideration has also been the work of the Land Administration over the years. In particular, Merje Krinal, Head of the Land Management Department of the Land Office, and Triinu Rennu, Head of the Legal Department of the Land Administration helped to develop the draft law. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This bill will help us reasonably solve the real-life problems that arise when a country needs land in the public interest. I ask for your support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U95	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You said that 60% of landowners are interested in receiving land in the case of Rail Baltic. But how many owners are there who are entitled to compensation? Have you asked the Minister of the Interior how many are on the eastern border? There is, by the way, no similar treatment in this respect. Some people have actually bought out this border band or some kind of agreement, and now a new law is coming and on the basis of this it is being done in another way with additional opportunities. But how many people will be affected?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U97	Indeed, until now, land has been acquired in different cases. All these acquisitions of land so far remain within the scope of the current law. This law contains a long list of cases in which the law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest may be used in the future. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you exactly how many owners are on one or the other route in connection with this law. This is known in detail to the Earth Administration officials, who have also prepared a draft law. Since the law is universal, it is not intended to solve a single problem, the number of landowners of a particular route is not included in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U98	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very honourable Minister! Indeed, this is a much-awaited draft law. I think that if we had been able to adopt this law a few years ago, there would certainly have been much less opposition to, among other things, Rail Baltic. But one myth that has arisen in this connection is that there are dozens and dozens of houses on the Rail Baltic route, which must be acquired by agreement on the basis of this law or expropriated. Can you tell the members of the Riigikogu what is really the magnitude of their homes, the buildings that stand in the way of the Rail Baltic route?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U100	Indeed, in the most difficult case, in the case of an immovable property acquired in the public interest, someone's dwelling remains a subject. Therefore, a 10% premium to compensate for emotional damage has been added separately. This topic was also raised when we introduced the matter to the Committee on Economic Affairs with specialists. If my old memory doesn't fool me, the answer was that there are three properties on the Rail Baltic route where people live right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U101	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U102	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! As one of the reasons why this bill is needed, you have pointed out that bureaucracy is being cut. Please, could you be more specific in what way? As a result, can it be argued that the landowner will not become a weaker party than the State?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U103	Indeed, bureaucracy is being reduced in quite a number of steps, one of which is probably an urgent procedure. Very often, for example, it is necessary to take a very small part of its land, some square meters, from the landowner to expand the road. According to the law so far, it has been necessary to assess the land, most of the expenditure has gone to order an assessment by a qualified assessor, and in fact the compensation paid to the landowner has been very low. Now, if the share of this land is very small, there is a fixed urgent procedure fee of EUR 1303. This is what we can pay out to the landowner without extra costs for the valuation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U104	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U105	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! There have been many problems with the acquisition of such land so far, perhaps in the last phase, especially with border countries on the eastern border of Estonia and in South-East Estonia. There, people are very dissatisfied with the prices or fees used to buy out the land. Can you say that the fees that come under this law are fair and that this so-called road roll mechanism for acquiring people's property doesn't get too bad, that it doesn't all go too far to the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U106	Indeed, the expansion of this particular border corridor has resulted in estimates that land is offered from a few tens of euros to a few hundred euros and landowners are not satisfied. As I said before to Küllik's Hatter, the Land Office has developed a rational solution so that the costs of the state do not increase, but the landlord will probably receive a more dignified compensation. It's the same urgent procedure. In the case of small cuts, an urgent procedure is proposed and then no evaluation will be carried out. It is obvious that the cost of this land is lower than the compensation offered. This fee is fixed at 0,3 times the average gross monthly wage. So it changes in time, plus the incentive fee. If the law were to enter into force now, this amount would be EUR 1303. There will be no additional compensation for the administration, since this whole process would be the acquisition of land at a fixed price. If there are landowners who do not want money but want land, and if the country has a reserve land nearby, land management changes could also be used. For example, there may be an opportunity to change the boundaries of immovable property if there is a similar value and volume of state land available for exchange in the vicinity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U107	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your answers, you indicated that there is an opportunity to pay 10% as a bonus on such an emotional subject. But in my opinion, when the state acquires a dwelling, it is probably the most difficult and difficult for a person. Let's see what real estate companies and professionals have done. They usually give a price and say ±10%. Doesn't it seem to you that 10% of its nature is too little for this emotion if the family doesn't have an alternative and it really has to leave home or move out, whatever? Does that seem fair to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U109	The purpose of this law is for a person to receive an equivalent asset somewhere else. So evaluation must certainly be based on the possibility of obtaining equivalent housing. In addition, in the event of loss of residence, the incentive fee, which is 20%, will receive an additional benefit of 10%. There's one way to create a new route that gets somebody's home in front of it. This law also covers other housing. Please note that this can also be applied to abandoned apartment buildings. In such a case, at least half of the apartments must be abandoned in an apartment building with at least 18 apartments, if it is less than 18 apartments, then three quarters of the apartments. We know that there are houses in Ida-Virumaa where the owners of the apartment can no longer be found, the heating bills are not paid, but the local government cannot dispose of the house in any way. I think that this law is just as important for giving local authorities the opportunity to come out of this problem and deposit a paid fee until this lost owner of the world shows up again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U110	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U111	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You have repeatedly pointed out in your answers, or rather tried to claim that the Land Office is the one who is prepared to pay a fee, for example, in the case of an urgent procedure. Does the Land Office really have the resources? We have repeatedly and repeatedly spoken in this Chamber about the eight-ninth anniversary of the expropriation of nature conservation land. Can the citizen be sure that the Earth Administration will not have such a constitutional interference in the application of this bill as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U112	You must note that there is one exception to this law: it is a change of nature conservation land. These cases, when such a more complex reputation has arisen in the land exchange, are now listed as an exception and have been moved from here to the Nature Conservation Act. It clearly states in which cases the law on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest can be implemented. For example, the cost and budget of each road project already include the need to acquire land. So, yeah, in the case of road construction, you can. There is also the story of building a state border, where a separate sector is specifically designed to acquire land. Speaking of railway lines, it's exactly the same. This cost has been calculated for each project and the first and absolutely insurmountable precondition for the project to start is the acquisition of land.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U113	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Again, maybe I'll ask you a little bit to disprove myths. Do you know how many so-called expropriations were carried out in Estonia during the last year, for example? There's a lot of different people involved, in this sense it might not be a very simple question, but let's say the Road Administration, the Land Administration and the Ministry? Then there would be some idea of the burden that this legislative amendment could put on the country. I would rather argue that it may, however, somewhat increase the burden on the country in financial terms, but I think it is entirely fair, because weight gains more balance than what is today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U115	Thank you for your question. You may wonder why I am defending this bill if the Land Office is under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment and land management should be more responsible for another minister. I am here before you precisely because, until now, expropriation has resulted, in particular, in cases where new roads or streets are being built, either in the case of the expansion of city streets or in the case of the construction of roads. I don't have the exact data of last year, because the Land Office has been preparing this law for a long time and in preparation, analysing this law on expropriation when extensions were made, which gave the opportunity to expropriate buildings and defence objects that are detrimental to the general appearance of the landscape. This shows that the most expropriation has to be done for road construction projects, while in the last eight years 437 immovable property had to be sold for the benefit of 12 road projects. We had to acquire 437 immovable property, only 36 of these acquisitions ended in expropriation. So even so far, a majority agreement has been reached with the owner, but this law gives us more opportunities to pay a bonus, either to the Land Board or to the local government. In fact, this deal is still a forced transaction. The possibility of land change and reparcelling should certainly be a very fair and fair change for agricultural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U116	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U117	Thank you. Dear Minister, In your last reply, you also referred to the possibility for local authorities to pay a bonus. I wanted to ask what the role of local government is in this whole process. I understand that it is the State that is primarily the acquirer, but obviously the problem is, among other things, that in many cases the land is used by the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U118	Those who need to acquire land may have different institutions. Let's see what these lands are for. In addition to the construction of infrastructure or a technical network, there are many issues of local government, such as the public use of private roads. We have seen and seen the formation of places where people cannot get home because a private road has come under some kind of restrictions. This law gives local authorities the opportunity to intervene. In addition to the local government, the procedure can be carried out at all (this is a limited list) either by the relevant ministry (if it is necessary to build a prison, it is the Ministry of Justice, if it is railways, then the Ministry of Economic Affairs, etc.), by the Land Administration, which currently in very many cases has taken on this burden, especially in reparation they have competence, the Road Administration in road construction, the National Defence Investment Centre and, in the case of local interest, either the municipality or city government. There won't be any more of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U119	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! The possible incentive fee provides for a lower limit and a upper limit. The Ministry of Defence, the Estonian Owners' Confederation and probably the Estonian Private Forest Association have proposed not to impose a cap. However, it is intended to be introduced, 50 times as much. Would you explain the motives for the need for a lower and upper limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U121	Indeed, the draft law sets a minimum and a ceiling. The lower limit is one that should be motivated by the experience of the Earth Administration so far. If the threshold were very low, the landlord might not find the incentive to come to an agreement to dispose of a very small section, as the possible compensation does not motivate him to do so. For the upper limit, the incentive fee is EUR 59250, i.e. 50 times the average gross monthly wage. Maybe in time, it changes because the gross monthly wage changes. But this does not mean a real limit, because the real value of the property is to be added with no or no upper limit. So this is the upper limit on the incentive fee. If something needs to be built, only the part of the land that is actually needed will always be acquired. Very rarely, it is foreseen that the State will acquire most of the land, assuming that it will remain a reserve land so that other plots can be replaced. Mostly, there is no need to carry out any very large-scale acquisition, for example, in the construction of infrastructure sites.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U122	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. You have pointed out here the statistics that last year the state has taken over 437 immovable property and 36 of these were expropriations. Is there any way you can predict any trend or trend? Is the acquisition of land in the public interest under the new regulation in a growing trend or declining trend, or is it a permanent situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U124	Thank you. I expressed myself recklessly. I actually wanted to say I don't have last year's records. I have data for a longer period: the figures that I have pointed out were for the period 2006/2014, or even eight years. In eight years it was predominantly road construction projects: new roads were built or existing roads were expanded and land was to be acquired from different owners for each km of road bed. And there were 437 cases in total, and only 36 ended in expropriation. More than 400 were agreed. Now, if you want an estimate of the future, we know that building the eastern border needs more land. We also know that we are expanding the three main roads, where the expansion must mostly take place at the expense of private countries, and we also know that we are going to build Rail Baltic. So obviously the need for an agreement is growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U125	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U126	Thank you. Good minister! Understandably, if it is necessary to acquire a strip somewhere to build an object, it is done to the extent necessary. But if, on the contrary, there is a field of land before it, but there is only a bed of land left, is the owner also entitled to wish that the land would still be bought in its entirety? It doesn't make any sense that there's a piece left.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U127	Yes, it is. Then the state will also acquire this piece of land and leave it as a reserve land.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U128	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Erki Savisaar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft on 2 April and the Minister also gave us a very thorough overview of the changes planned. In addition to the minister, Mr. Triinu Rennu, Deputy Director General of the Land Office, and Mr. Andres Lindemann, Head of the Land Management Department of the Land Administration Department of the Land Administration Department, and Mr. Andres Lindemann, Head Specialist of the Transport Development and Investment Department of MKM, were present. After a thorough review, we had some questions that were relatively similar to those we had in this Chamber just a moment ago. I mean, they'd go over, though. For example, it was asked that the principle of the price of transactions with similar objects in an equivalent region be used to calculate the value of the immovable property. There was a question of why this data set was not used in the urgent procedure. In reply, Merje Krinal said that such a methodology was not appropriate, as a fixed asset with an estimated market value of less than 0,3 times the average gross wage would be acquired. At such a low price, landowners are not willing to make transactions according to current practice. In this respect, it should be taken into account that the valuation of the land in itself costs around EUR 300. It makes more sense to offer the owner a fee that motivates him to make a deal. Hence this minimum fee, which is 0,3 gross average wages, is below which no more countries will be bought or offered. There was a question of what the State would do if the owners did not agree to change the immovable property or to move the border. As is the case now, if no compromise is found, the land needed for the route will be expropriated, but the draft will provide a number of alternative options. The draft does not regulate expropriation. The expropriation will be achieved in the future if the proposed purchase amount is not suitable, the exchange of land is not suitable, the shifting or re-planting of the border is not suitable as the most recent measure. When we talk about reparcelling, it can only happen with the consent of all parties. It may be necessary that, in addition to one owner and country, the borders of other properties must be reorganized and relocated, in which case everyone must agree. Jaanus Marrandi noted that reparcelling had been carried out in the past on the basis of the Land Order Act. Merje Krinal confirmed that this is the case, but such reparcelling has only been carried out within the framework of the land reform. According to current law, only local authorities have such competence. No valuation procedures were used for these operations at the time. It was also a question of whether the value of the land would be taken into account when changing the boundaries of the immovable property. The answer was that it would be taken into account: farmland, forest against forest, etc. was offered against the field. There was an interest in the order in which the country's owner offers them all kinds of alternatives. Triinu Rennu explained that each situation is different, but the process always begins by the Land Board explaining his rights to the owner. The possibility of changing the boundaries of immovable property depends, for example, on whether the state has land in the vicinity to deal with. The first offer by the State is, as a rule, to acquire all immovable property with the consent of the owner, while the State is not obliged to make such an offer. Next, the owner will be offered the purchase of the land necessary for the State and, if not accepted, the expropriation decision will be taken. At present, the State is only able to offer land purchase and compensation, but a much more flexible approach is needed, as the owner of the immovable property is generally not interested in the disposal of the land, which is not the situation of the free market. Merje Krinal added that, broadly speaking, owners can be divided into two. For some, the land is linked to a livelihood that they want to maintain and, if possible, continue to use. The other owners prefer the sale of the entire plot. For those wishing to sell the plot of land, it will be bought to use the land obtained if necessary for the restructuring of neighbouring parcels. We were also given examples of various agricultural land. There was also talk of expropriation of the dwelling, and it was a question of what conditions it could be used in. We learned that this bill allows us to acquire apartment property from apartment buildings where the use of many apartments has been abandoned and it is not appropriate to reconstruct the apartment building. The state must ensure the safety of people, but many apartment buildings do not meet the safety requirements. To improve the condition of the apartment building, cooperation between all the owners of the apartment is necessary. The Minister added that these apartments can be purchased from the owners of the state. It is mostly necessary to force the ownership of the dwelling if the owner cannot be contacted and the owner does not pay the bills. Sven Sester asked what the differences were when someone's home was located in the land he acquired. Merje Krinal explained that there would be no procedural differences under the draft and that expropriation could be used if necessary. It was also asked how investments in immovable property were taken into account when assessing the value of immovable property. We have received the answer that the aim is to place the person in a situation which is as close as possible to the situation in which he would have been if the fact that the indemnity obligation was based had not occurred. The cost of a building must be calculated on the basis of the price of equivalent immovable property on the market. If no transactions have been made with similar immovable property, the cost calculation must be used and the incentive fee added. We also asked about the practice in other countries, and we learned that the practice in other countries has been studied when preparing this draft. The implementation of infrastructure projects in modern countries is peaceful and attempts are being made to reach agreements that would satisfy all parties. However, in some countries infrastructure projects may stretch to tens of years, as the state is unable to offer a good alternative to landowners. This bill has tried to take all the best practices into account. Toomas Kivimägi noted that the length of the procedure is important given the fact that some of the owners' confrontation is not motivated by personal interest, but by the desire to obstruct a project. We asked what the maximum length of the acquisition process would be and how the interest would be greater: private interest or public interest. Merje Krinal explained that decisions are mostly based on an overall plan. After completion of the planning procedure, the project cannot be prevented, but the amount of compensation can be contested. The law sets deadlines within which action must be taken. The acquisition process shall have a reasonable duration of six months. The planning decision will enter into force anyway and the court has not implemented the initial legal protection in Estonian practice. There was also a question of acquiring immovable property for nature conservation purposes. We learned that this law does not regulate it. Raivo Põldaru was interested in how quickly the landowners would receive compensation. The Minister said that the funds needed to acquire the land were available in the project's budget and that the funds would be transferred as soon as possible. There was also a question of how to avoid a situation where the land was acquired in the public interest, but then the land was not used to satisfy its public interest. Public interests can change. Mr Rennu replied that in this case the owner could demand the return of the land. There was also the question of how many jobs will be created in connection with this draft. In response, we have found that there will be no new jobs and the procedure set out in the draft is simpler than the current one, which is rather a reduction in jobs. By the end of this interview, the Commission decided by consensus to propose the completion of the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, 25 April 2018 at 17:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U130	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Erki Savisaar! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 598 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5 p.m. on 25 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U131	First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the French military operation Barkhane Malis' (608 OE). At the starter's side, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U132	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! At its meeting on 22 March, the Government of the Republic decided to submit to you a draft decision allowing the Estonian Defence Forces to contribute to the French-led military operation in the Republic of Barkhane Mali with up to 50 active troops. The decision was based on the objective of contributing jointly and severally to the management of the threats to the south of Europe and also to deepen strategic cooperation with one of Estonia's important allies France. The decision was preceded by high-level political consultations between the two countries, general talks and institutional analyses, including a thorough military assessment. On 17 January 2018, my colleague, the French Minister for Defence, formally invited Estonia to contribute to Operation Barkhane and to enhance bilateral military cooperation in other ways. On 8 March, the Republic of Mali sent an official authorisation to Estonia for the presence of Estonian units on the territory of the Republic of Mali with a diplomatic note. Operation Barkhane is taking place in the Sahel region of Africa. The Sahel region comprises five countries: Mauritania, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger and Chad. This is France's largest foreign military operation with 4500 staff, with the strategic objective of managing global, but especially European, challenges. In the areas of the southern border of Europe, instability and development continue: terrorism, armed rebellion and the spread of other security destabilising factors. Many of these are also caused by illegal mass immigration and other related problems. These are still one of the greatest challenges for Europe from the south. Managing them, including tackling root causes, requires a joint effort and commitment from European countries so that the deepening of the problems does not have negative consequences for European countries. It is in the interests of Estonian defence policy to support a stable security environment and the solidarity of European countries in the fight against threats affecting Europe, and this, of course, wherever possible, at their origin. At the same time, contributing to strategic and political-military relations between Estonia and France will strengthen Estonia's position on key security issues in NATO and the European Union. Of course, the contribution of the French units to NATO presence in Estonia must also be taken into account. The French company participated in eFP in Estonia in 2017 and will also participate in 2019. The French President, Emmanuel Macron, has already made a statement on this. In addition, our contribution to Mali will increase the cooperation capacity of the Estonian and French defence forces. And now a few words about what our operatives are going to do there. Given the operational needs and the military assessment of our Defence Forces, the plan is to send a mechanized infantry team, a national support element and staff officers to the operation. The operational area of the team is Mali, with the task of protecting the military base in the Gao area, including the crewing of surveillance posts, patrolling the area nearest to the base, as well as rapid response in emergency situations in the nearest vicinity of the base. It is also ready to carry out later convoy defence tasks. The team to be deployed to the operation will be formed in Estonia on the basis of the Scouts battalion and will be integrated into the French units. If the Riigikogu approves this mandate, the unit will travel to Mali in June according to the current plans. We are also negotiating an agreement on the status of forces with the Republic of Mali, as well as with Niger, which is very much dependent on supplying the Gao base. I can assure the Riigikogu that until the agreement on the status of the forces, which gives our units immunity for the trial of Mali and Niger, has been concluded, we will of course not send our boys and girls there. That's what I'm done with right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U133	There are also questions for the Minister. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U134	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I repeat, this is not a NATO mission. We are talking here that the French are helping Estonia in the context of NATO, but this is not NATO's mission. I got a few things scratching in my ear here. It seems to me that the fight against immigration in Mali is not the most sensible way of dealing with it. This could still be done in particular by guarding Europe's external borders, where there is another resource. In my opinion, Estonia is not a former colonial state, a superpower that could do police work in former colonies. I don't understand why we have to go to the French for the honors, guarding some convoys. Is that the kind of merchandise we've made in NATO, that if the French need to clean up their former colonies, otherwise they won't come to protect us from the Russians, unless we send our men there? Or is there another arrangement hiding somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U135	Thank you. Since you are a great foreign and defence policy interested, you know that this kind of trade will never be made. Of course, one country's decision affects its relations with another country, in this case France in a broader sense. The people who make the decision on Mali will, of course, also make decisions concerning participation in European units, but it is certainly not a single exchange. It is more important to note that France has very strongly supported Estonia on a number of defence policy issues. The deployment of French units along the Russian border constitutes a deterrent with a so-called pre-positioned presence. This is an extremely revolutionary step, because the classic French defence concept does not provide for deterrence, but rather for deterrence with a strategic nuclear weapon, which, as we know, exists in the arsenal of French possibilities. This dispute lasted throughout the Cold War and therefore the French never placed their troops directly on the border between East German and West German. So for the French, this is a very important step, and I believe that we, too, who are also interested in the stability of Europe and in minimising the risks that come from Africa. It is quite natural that we too are contributing, and why not do so in cooperation with a very good ally, France. As far as stopping migrants at the border is concerned, you know as well as I do what kind of problems it creates. After all, there is a very important political direction to stabilise the situation in the so-called 'root countries', where problems arise. From the same point of view, we can also analyse, for example, the European Union's relations with Turkey, where for a long time the passage channel for refugees was important, which is now virtually closed. Of course, political and strategic choices must always be made on such complex issues. And now you have the choice that the Government of the Republic is asking you to make.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U136	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U137	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I cannot in any way take seriously the fact that Article 5 of the NATO Treaty will not work unless we send 50 Estonian soldiers to Mali. I can't believe it. In this case, NATO is a completely meaningless organisation, and I see no benefit from membership of this organisation either for France or for Estonia. Article 5 has been repeatedly confirmed by all countries at the level of governments, and it is therefore mandatory for all countries to comply with it should someone be attacked. However, coming back to this mission specifically, it is clear that about half of the population in Black Africa would like to relocate to Europe. Well, 50 soldiers don't stop it with their best wishes. My question, however, is: is our contingent there under such circumstances that we can be reasonably certain that we will not bring back bodies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U138	Thank you for your question. As far as the activities of the Estonian Defence Forces in different regions outside the borders of Europe are concerned, given our size, it is only natural that our participation does not result in a sudden change in the situation. We need to be honest about our size and say that our contribution can, above all, be supportive and that the reasons for this contribution are above all political. It's inevitable, given our small size. Of course, we are also participating in the stabilisation mission in Afghanistan, for which we can also ask how much added value it brings. But it is clear that we can identify, with our participation, with our support, that we take European security seriously. As far as human casualties are concerned, it would be extremely irresponsible of me to stand on this board and say that human casualties are completely excluded. It's an operating zone. In designing this mission, we have tried to minimise the possibility of human sacrifice. But this is a military operation area, so no guarantees can be given by me or anyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U139	Martin Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U140	Thank you. Now I have such a problem. If we look at what is happening in Syria, I dare say that the world's security situation is more or less as dangerous as it was last in the Cuban crisis. The Russian and American forehead collision is clearly in the air. We remember that during the Georgian war, the Georgians also sent their mission soldiers to the Middle East, if I remember correctly, to Afghanistan. And when the war broke out in Georgia, they sat there for weeks and did not get home to protect their homeland. If the situation in the Middle East gets even hotter, boiling over the edge of the international security situation could also affect our security. The Russians may decide to do some sort of provocation or a side action. How soon will our soldiers get home in that case? Do we have a plan for that? Have the necessary preparations been made for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U141	Thank you. We have taken into account all kinds of circumstances, including those mentioned by you. The unit we're taking part in this operation is still very small. But, of course, if there is some kind of crisis, we will do everything we can to bring this unit home as soon as possible. So all these questions are meant for. The General Staff has quite thoroughly analysed all the circumstances concerning the expulsion of this particular group and their assessment of the expulsion of the unit does not undermine Estonia's defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U142	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U143	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I read here that the Malian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has invited us there this year on 17 January. And now we give the mandate until New Year's Eve to 50 Estonian active troops. But at the same time I read: 'In addition, Estonia is applying for an invitation from the Republic of Niger, through which the contingent of the Estonian Defence Forces will move to Mali and return. " Today is April 11th. Let us look at the speed of business: on 17 January, Mali's invitation came to us, and now the whole quarter and more have gone, but, as I understand it, we are still waiting for an invitation from the Republic of Niger. The boys should be leaving soon. As I understand it, it's only possible through Niger. Or what is the connection between this invitation to Niger and sending it on a mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U144	Thank you. The link is such that one of the major military aerodromes used in the operation is in Niger. If we want to use this airport, even though we are only passing through Niger and, theoretically, nothing should happen there, we are practically not taking any risks. For this reason, we want all the necessary legal papers to be available for this situation. If there's any reason we can't get them, our boys and girls can be delivered directly to Gao Airport. This is a military airfield surrounded by a military base. It's a large military airfield, but part of its runway is being repaired and therefore the largest transport planes cannot land there. But if there's a problem like this, we're taking our unit straight to Gao, right in the center of the base where that airfield is. So, in this sense, it is rather one of those insuring options. We do not necessarily have to use this base in Niger.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U145	Johannes Kert.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'd rather have a brief comment. I mean, in the east, the French military have not been with their contingent since 1812. But prepositioned, the French army units have been in West Berlin. They've been there for security against Soviet assault. In the Chamber of Colleagues, I have to say that 15 years ago we were in Iraq on a mission, the promotion of the credibility of our defence forces for the Americans began, and it succeeded. Later, with Britain's contingent in Afghanistan, a complete success was achieved. Now we want to achieve this in the eyes of another major European Union country, France. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U147	Thank you. I'm a hundred percent in agreement. As you pointed out, Berlin was indeed the kind of place where the French unit was stationed. I forgot to add in my introduction that British units are joining the operation. The British send four huge Chinook-type transport helicopters with crew and maintenance teams. So the British are joining this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U148	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You actually half-answered the question I wanted to ask. What countries do the military in France and Estonia take part in this operation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U150	Thank you. As I mentioned: the French, the English and the small Estonian unit. These are the countries participating in this operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U151	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U152	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. It has been very nicely said in this explanatory memorandum that it has been five years since the French have controlled Islamist extremist groups in the area. And the purpose of this operation, to which the people of Estonia are now going, is to stabilise the situation in the region with military operations so that the state can cope on its own. My question requires some kind of forecast or a brief comment on how long it might take before the situation stabilizes there and the participation of such troops is no longer needed. Is there any way to predict this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U153	Given the size of Mali and the difficult political situation, I believe that this French-led mission will remain there for a very long time. Estonia has unequivocally said that we will certainly not be on this mission for more than one year. We've informed the French about this. We're leaving in a year. And as I said, it wouldn't be our first mission to Africa. As you will recall, we also had a military mission in the Central African Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U154	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. A little speculation. France is a Member State of NATO and a Member State of the European Union and an ally of ours, without doubt a very respected ally. But let us imagine now: there are a great many countries in Africa where there is a civil war of less or more intensity, and which is obviously for Europe the source of immigration, for example, the so-called Belgian Congo, for example Nigeria, which is a former British colony. If Britain or other NATO allies invite us to participate in the missions there, will we necessarily have a solidarity duty to go? Or can we still at some point say that you see, friends, our forces simply do not carry out solidarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U156	Thank you. This is a very important issue. Of course, there will be a separate decision to participate in each of these operations, taking into account all circumstances, both international and our own capabilities. It is clear that we cannot have solidarity with everyone and all the time. We'll do our best. However, even now we can count a number of crises in a world where Estonia has no role to play. So it is clear that we cannot participate everywhere, even if our allies invite us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U157	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U158	Good manager! Good minister! I will continue with the same issue. We are now giving a mandate until the end of this year, but you said that our active troops will remain there for a year, so one more mandate must be given. And are there any invitations in your drawer from somewhere else, from our allies or from some friendly African country to which we should go next?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U159	As regards the length of the mandate, the Estonian Parliament gives the mandate for one year. Of course, we have also informed the French that if we do not receive a mandate for the next six months, we will be forced to leave. They are aware of our parliamentary procedure. But as for the invitations I may have in my drawer, I don't have any invitations with that in my drawer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U160	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U161	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned so nicely a few times that there are boys and girls among these militia. Somehow that's what you said. Do women's guys take part in this mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U162	You know, I owe you an answer right now, but women are usually involved in all our international missions. It all depends on what specialists are needed and under what circumstances they can be used. Certain cultural aspects must also be taken into account. In general, we try to use all our militia as well as their training allows, be they men or women.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U163	Honourable Minister, thank you very much. No further questions for you. The discussion of the National Defence Committee brings Madis Milling to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Minister of Defence has already explained, this is a draft that, if it comes into force, Estonia will be able to send up to 50 active troops to participate in the French operation in Barkhane Mali. As a matter of fact, during the rotation period, the number of our Defence Forces could increase to 100 active troops. The Minister of Defence made a very thorough and detailed presentation and, in the interests of saving time, I do not have the point of repeating all this to you once again. However, I would like to highlight a few more important points. Perhaps you remember that the French battle company with heavy equipment was in Estonia and in France it was planned as a one-time mission in Estonia. The decision to participate in a French-led operation in Mali gave impetus, which will result in the French battle company coming to Estonia. So we see how one of our decisions can affect decision-makers in Paris, and that is extremely important. Of course, Article 5 always works. However, it is up to each country to take part in various deterrence operations during a period of peace, and this article has nothing to do with 5. Urve Tiidus was here asking about the women's militia. Yeah, they're there. There is one very important detail: our defence forces are also involved in protecting the base and it is very important for the base to be protected by manning control points. The work there also includes physical searches of people and, as the Minister stressed, a woman must be searched for because of cultural peculiarities. And they also have other important tasks. If we go to the grassroots level, these foreign missions are extremely welcome among our professional Defence Forces, or Scoutsbattalion fighters, precisely because of their experience. And when these people return to Estonia with experience, they are once better trainers for our conscripts. However, as a Commission rapporteur, I am also obliged to read out the procedural decisions. At its meeting on 5 April this year, the Commission was presented with a draft decision on the Barkhane operation by Jonathan Vsevov, Deputy Secretary General of Defence of the Ministry of Defence, Indrek Sirel, Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces. The Defence Intelligence Centre also briefed the members of the Commission on the area and the conditions of the operation. The procedural decisions were as follows: At the meeting of 5 April, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of today's sitting of the Riigikogu. In addition, the Commission also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft decision be terminated and that the deadline for submitting amendments should be set at 5.15 p.m. on 25 May. Thank you very much. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U165	Just in case, I'll check: April 25th or May 25th, as you said?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U166	May 25th. Yeah, I'll fix it, I've got a clerical error. The deadline is April 25th at 5:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-11_U167	Got it! Some things go slow, but not so slow. Thank you. Your report was also accepted with consensus, no questions asked. Mr Milling, thank you. I will open negotiations to the representatives of the political groups, if that is what you want. That's not what you want. Let me remind you that the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 608. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 25 April. Ladies and gentlemen, we will meet tomorrow in this Chamber at 10 a.m. Have a good day at work! Closure of the sitting at 3.25 p.m.
