ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Monday of the 17th plenary session Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Happy Estonian Flag Day! The message I come to you with may not be very pleasant to many of you. I do not want to grieve anyone in a beautiful weather, but I assume that the draft proposed by the Free Party Group does not please many of you. But here I stand and there's no other way. We present the Act amending the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, the content of which is that a member of the Riigikogu is compensated for work-related expenses up to 10% of the salary of a member of the Riigikogu. So far, as we know, it has been done 30%. Once it has been reduced to 10% then there was a recession in Estonia and the composition of the XI Riigikogu was able to make this so-called self-s cut. However, since we are talking about state reform in this Chamber this week and there have been various initiatives taken up to how to change the state and the Riigikogu through the amendment of the Constitution, we found that, if we speak seriously about the cost savings of the state, the Riigikogu should do something that is simple, convincing, touches us and sets a good example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U3	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U4	Good manager! Colleagues! At its meeting today, the Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the issue of the price of public transport tickets and special advantages and decided to initiate an amendment to the Income Tax Act, according to which the employer's expenses for reimbursement of the cost of commuting and commuting to work are not considered as a special advantage. The Committee on Rural Development has addressed public transport issues in several sessions. As a result of the consultation, the understanding emerged that the employer's expenses in compensating for workers' travel to work and home should not be subject to a special preferential tax. In particular, the possibility of using free-of-charge bus services provided under the public service contract is controversial from 1 July. At the same time, however, the taxation of services fulfilling exactly the same purpose will continue to be subject to a special preferential tax if, in the absence of a free public bus service, the person employed is forced to use a commercial route to move between the workplace and the home. This is an important change, which provides an opportunity to ensure more favourable conditions for workers. Indirectly, the amendment to the draft would also support the continuation of commercial lines and the functioning of the existing network. The purpose of the Act is to exclude from the special advantage the purchase of public transport tickets, which are reimbursed by the employer to employees when they are employed. The exemption does not apply to the carriage of taxis.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U5	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U6	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Social Affairs Committee, we are launching a law amending the Social Welfare Act. In October 2017, the Chancellor of Justice asked the Riigikogu to bring the Social Welfare Act into line with the Constitution. It's about aids. If elderly people living at home have the opportunity to receive preferential aids, it must also be available to the elderly in the care establishment. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice in October and November 2017. As you remember, on 14 November the Riigikogu plenary supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chairman of the Riigikogu instructed the Social Affairs Committee to initiate the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this at a number of its meetings and responsibly, because by then it was already clear how much funds there would be for this in the 2019 financial year, on 31 May 2018 it decided to initiate a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act. If you, the honourable Riigikogu, support it and we accept it together, then from 1 January 2019 people living in welfare institutions will also have the opportunity to receive aids with an advantage, with their own participation, i.e. on the basis of the same principle as those living at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U7	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws. Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U8	All delivered drafts are dealt with under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 92 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu! Adoption of the agenda. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. There are a lot of points on the agenda on Wednesday. Points 18 and 19, the Personal Data Act and the Aliens Act, are important and substantial drafts that we discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs only today. There are a lot of signs of haste and superficiality in this process. Do you think it is good practice that we discussed this in the Commission only today and that we should vote in the big Chamber on Wednesday? Is that in accordance with the normal rules of procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U10	My experience as a member of the Commission, which was the name of the Committee on Monetary Affairs from another Commission, and was led by the various good members of the Riigikogu at different times, is this: it was often the case that the Wednesday drafts were still discussed on Monday. The Committee on Legal Affairs has been proposed to remove the last item from the agenda on Wednesday, draft Act 625 on the ratification of the Agreement on Mutual Assistance and Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the prevention, preparedness and response of emergencies. With this amendment, honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the 17th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 60 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, 27 against, 2 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U11	And now, after the hammer hit, there's a free microphone. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U12	Honorable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have some information to get you. We have information about Valga from Valga Hospital, Valga Municipality and Valga from the doctors and gynecologists of the maternity department. It's like this. After considering the decision of the Valga Hospital Board, Valga has taken the view that the decision to discontinue the provision of obstetric services as of 1 July 2018 does not follow the development plan set out in the Commercial Code, the Valga Hospital Development Plan. We feel the need to discuss this decision again in the Valga Hospital Council, to keep the obstetric service and other services in the county. In view of the development of the region and the expectations of the community, we consider it important that all health services, including obstetrics, continue to be provided at Valga Hospital and that the development of the hospital is ensured in accordance with a development plan that has long been in place. The termination of the provision of maternity care services at Valga Hospital is a very large decision having a regional impact and cannot therefore be limited to a decision of the hospital council alone. We ask for the position of the Government of the Republic in these matters. We ask that additional measures be taken and that additional funding be found if it is necessary for Valga Hospital to continue providing obstetric services. This means that everything that comes with it, be it surgical help, be it supervision, be it outpatients, everything the Valga Hospital is doing now, and everything that Valga Hospital can now offer in a high-quality way. All the doctors who are there can do it in quality. These doctors, who rotate between three hospitals, are rotting all the time. The justification for not making 24-hour shifts is legitimate, but 90% of doctors don't really work that way. There are home guards, there are remote guards and all other things, people work three, four, five, six or seven days in a row, both in Põlva Hospital, Võru Hospital, University of Tartu Hospital and in Tallinn. Now, if you bite through this model, why do it all, it's all actually extremely simple. Whoever can solve a little quadratic equations can figure it out here, too. It is advertised that we have the most important and sustainable policies to raise births and other problems. In fact, what is being prepared? A new industry, or maintenance service. And all the strategic hospitals in the region that are borderside, be it Valga or Võru, even at the other end of Haapsalu and Narva, are meant for good rich elderly people who are imported from good rich countries. I mean, it's a very brutal comparison, but it's going through every stitch. In fact, the closure of maternity and surgery departments is a preparatory act to create a new economic sector, or care network, for the money of the state, the taxpayer. Remember those words. I would ask Tara not to do so and to have a pleasant old age for all of us, but at the same time, old age cannot be pleasant if we do not have a growing generation or generations. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's figure out what we're doing and help those places we're getting. Every child is important to us, every student is important to us, every student dropped out of school is important, every unborn child is an accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-06-04_U13	I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 3.14 p.m.
