ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Currently 39 members of the Riigikogu reported their presence. Among the members of the government are Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, and Mailis Reps, Minister of Education and Science. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U2	The first questioner is Andres Herkel and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! We have disagreements, but you have always recognised the role of the opposition in politics, and you often suffer here too from our rather acute issues. In Estonia, the city of Narva is located in Ida-Virumaa. Among the 31 members of the Narva City Council, there are currently six who have not been able to take part in the work of any council committee, even if they wish to do so. It is, among other things, a very clear and direct violation of the law. What kind of judgment do you make? How is such a political culture even possible after our 100th anniversary? Today is also Native Language Day, and we have just been nice and nicely presidencies of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U4	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you, good questioner! I wouldn't say these are acute questions. I think these are practical questions. I have really said on several occasions to the Free Party Group that the issues you have raised have been correct in terms of the economy or other aspects. So is the question you asked in Question Time today. If, in your opinion or as far as you know, there are currently six members of the Narva City Council who are not involved in committees, I believe that the municipal elections are one of the fundamental principles: councils are elected. On the other hand, both the European Charter for Local Government and our Constitution must certainly be used. In my opinion, however, it is all the more important that a reasonable line should be drawn from the fact that those who have been elected to the council after the council has decided which committees it is to set up in addition to the audit committee in the law have been invited to take part in the work of the committees. In my opinion, it should not be the case that none of the council members can or must not participate. The way committees are formed and the number of members outside the council is a question of its own. Each municipality already has to organise with its statutes whether it is 50% + one council member and the rest outside specialists or otherwise. No, I don't think it's good practice that council members are not included on council committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U5	Andres Herkel, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister! I got the answer to the first question exactly as I expected. My second question is, however, in this case: why did neither the coalition nor your government support the draft initiated by the Free Party, which would say in law even more clearly that the political forces elected to the respective councils must also be reflected in proportion, and would also give a more precise rule as to how these forces themselves submit candidates to the committees? Why don't you support this bill? I did not mention before, of course, that in Narva this whole block and the siege of the opposition are linked to the members of the Central Party. I also ask for an assessment of what links you to political parties with such an attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U7	Thank you. You don't have to mention it, I always know from your question that you are thinking about it in the beginning. So that's not a problem at all. But in answer to your question, indeed, the Government of the Republic discussed the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by your political group at its meeting on 15 February. You asked why we didn't support it. We decided not to support the draft, in particular by justifying it in the opinion that the draft disproportionately violates local self-regulation, as I emphasised earlier, and as the European Charter for Local Government says. The Government takes the view that the State should not intervene in the formation of the internal structures of the local government, but rather provide a general framework for the organisation of the local government's work, which is provided for and provided for in the current Local Government Organisation Act. In answering your first question, I said that apart from the European Charter for Local Government and our Constitution, we should take into account good practice and political culture, but also the desire of the highest authority. If the people have foreseen these fine women and men on councils, I think they should also have an application in the areas of local government where they have professionalism and knowledge. Now, the other part of your question. My involvement with the Centre Party is true, it exists, I am a member of this party, and I am now also the chairman of this party. I certainly think it is right that, in Narva, where the people have really given very great support to the Centre Party, the opposition would also be involved in committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U8	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U9	The next speaker is the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, asking Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U10	Thank you. Good minister! You fought for changes that should have improved the situation of HEV children in the education system. However, after the entry into force of this law, I have received information fragments indicating that the situation has got worse for children. Several schools, including in Tallinn, have forced children with autistic or disturbance of attention to exchange their individual education, which has been justified, for home learning or for example for a small class. You will probably understand that unexpected and sudden changes do not have a very good effect on children with such a diagnosis. As far as I know, there have been setbacks. Do you still support this approach and this law, which has had negative consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U11	Thank you, good questioner! We will come back for a moment to amend the basic school and upper secondary school law and to this whole debate. The changes in the education of children with special needs were driven by the real situation at school. At the moment, the parent has the right to put his or her child in a school at home. In the last 26 years, it has become more and more conscious of people. Each municipality has a certain number of children who need support. Their percentage in schools is increasing, and this is due both to increased awareness and to the fact that parents no longer put their children in special schools. They often do not want to do so, even if the referral committee or advisory committee has suggested so. Your question was about the negative consequences. You see, when we did this basic school and upper secondary school law, the content of the debate and the dialogue with the Riigikogu consisted of the part in which we make major changes and the part in which we try to keep up with the educational changes that have already taken place, with financial support. Finally, the Riigikogu understood quite unambiguously: yes, there are certain differences in wording, terminology, but the main content of this draft and the biggest change is that we give money to local governments who in turn direct it to schools. Today, when we talk about it, it is the beginning of March. Very many local authorities are still negotiating the proportions and schools in which they allocate money. We have the preliminary results, but there is definitely still to be concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U12	Maris Lauri, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U13	Thank you. Good minister! The reason I approached you with this question was because the law has barely entered into force, but the cases that I have been told about are precisely such that, after the law has entered into force, schools have been told by close-to-home schools, not by special schools, that there is no money, and that, according to the law, individual education is excluded, this cannot be demanded anymore. Clearly, when this law is enforced, there has been some kind of disorder, whether intentionally or unintentionally. On this basis, I ask what is the Minister's intention to do to ensure that the law is enforced according to the meaning of the law, not by acting on its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U14	Thank you. First of all, what has the Ministry of Education and Research done? We had a slightly different distribution of children with special needs in the basic school and upper secondary school law that was in force in the past, but now the Pathfinder reviews each individual case and determines either enhanced or special support. The Ministry of Education and Research, in cooperation with Innove, who is responsible for the Pathfinder, has made it as automatic as possible in each case so that the parent does not have to go through all the cadets again with his or her child or apply new diagnosis, etc. This was our first step. But I know the process is still underway. If someone has said that the support received so far by someone's child should be reduced for some reason now, I would very much ask that you pass this information on to the Ministry of Education, specifically Innove, or personally to me, because I can pass it on. We want to take each case seriously and look at what has changed and why has changed. Certainly, the solution is not if now suddenly the situation is interpreted in such a way that the child who has been so far trained is directed towards home learning. This is no alternative because home learning has its own conditions. We have also signalled from the same Riigikogu that home learning only works in individual cases and is not a solution for children with special needs. We have also tried to advise as many schools as possible on the Ministry and Innove side. You touched the city of Tallinn and the city of Tartu. I know that schools do not yet have the budget and, in fact, they do not know exactly what their options are. They certainly need to communicate with both Innove and their city's best advisors to find out what to do with the added resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U15	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! A few weeks ago, the Ministry of Social Affairs introduced its study on the livelihoods of children with disabilities and their families in 2017. It has a very large chapter on learning and going to educational establishments, including both early childhood education and primary education, and it was very clear that in a third of cases, parents feel very keenly two problems. Firstly, there are insufficient support staff. Secondly, the behaviour of fellow students and the lack of knowledge of teachers about the organisation of education for pupils with special educational needs. Teachers do not have the skills to do so. This is what we drew attention to earlier and discussed this issue several times in the course of the changes that have just come into force. My question is very specific: what steps will be taken immediately, in the near future, to promote and improve teacher training so that parents do not, however, have to vote with their feet? We've been told many times that you should find another place where there are better teachers, but that's not an okay answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U17	First of all, the real situation is that there are schools now that can set an example with their best experience. These schools have more competence, and parents will be happy to put their children there. Unfortunately, there are schools where in many cases the general attitude of the school has not changed. Training is organised both regionally and nationally. The groups are getting very busy, which shows that there is interest. We've been thinking at the Ministry of Education and Research about how to increase study groups. The problem is that the ability of universities to provide explosively more education may not be as high as expected, but we are still trying to expand the courses. Now, the most painful problem, which you also dealt with, is actually in early childhood education, for two reasons. While the subject of special education at schools has been dealt with for a long time, for about a decade, many schools already have some experience with it, we run into two problems in kindergartens. The first is that raising the awareness of other parents about the child's special needs is very difficult, especially when it comes to behavioural patterns, for example. Second, this is often the first time parents find out that their child has a problem. It is also important that kindergarten teachers are able to advise the family who is facing a first shock. There is still a lot of action to be taken before we can even take action at all. So, yes, we are training, but I believe we have a very big job to do in kindergartens, where perhaps the biggest problems are.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U18	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U19	Reply to the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology Urve Palo, asks Arno Sild. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We know that export markets are a major problem for small countries, including Estonia. There's going to be a big world show, a Dubai World Fair. The question would be this: has our government already made a decision, or will it make a decision in the near future, on how to deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U21	Thank you for your question. True, export markets and export development are very important for Estonia and certainly one of the priorities of all government activities. As regards the participation in the Expo, or World Exhibition in Dubai in 2020, the government discussed this issue on 15 February at its study session and accordingly took two decisions. Firstly, the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology remained responsible for presenting proposals during the discussion of the state's budget strategy in order to open a diplomatic representation of Estonia in the Gulf States. Resources for this purpose should be requested in the course of the budgetary strategy process. Even if we were to participate in exhibitions or professional fairs there, for example, entrepreneurs believe that the permanent presence of the Estonian state, follow-up activities, is very important. I can assure you that this is the case. If we go to a fair once, it is better than nothing, but it would be even more important to be permanently represented on the ground. For this reason, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Enterprise make the relevant requests in the course of the country's budget strategy. The second decision was that the government would support our representation in the Expo 2020 when the private sector is prepared to contribute half of the money it takes to participate in the World Fair. I have been tasked by the government to find out by 15 April what the interest of entrepreneurs is in contributing to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U22	Arno Bridge, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U23	Thank you. You've answered that question halfway by now. In particular, I was going to ask what the attitude of companies to this is also, given what you have been made conditional on them paying half of the costs, or 50% of the costs themselves. Given these circumstances, is there already any information from businesses, do they support such an idea or do they not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U24	Thank you for this clarification. Before I answer, I also say that there is nothing distinctive about asking companies to participate and contribute financially themselves. Our neighbouring countries in the north have been doing this for years. This time Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Norway have already announced their participation. They have also said that half the money is put by entrepreneurs. They're all quite a budget, by the way. Sweden, for example, has estimated that they will go there with a 14-million box, the amount of Finland is 18 million, etc. We have taken into account that we can handle a minimum of four million, we are a smart country and we are making a smart solution, we can do it cheaper than that, and we expect two million of that from businesses. They have until 25 March to respond. The final position is not yet in place. Today, I have received three answers. The company Narma and AS Eesti Raudtee stated that they are not interested. The Estonian Tourist Association stated that their members did not have any interest in participating, although in the past they had been more supportive of going to Expo. Now that it has become more specific, they said that they still have no interest. I do not have any more information right now, but businesses have time to answer this question until 25 March. I would add that the previous evaluations of the professional associations have otherwise been supportive. The Chamber of Commerce said that yes, why not, but they expect that, as a first step, a representation will still be opened, professional fairs will be held and, if the state still has money, Expo could also participate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U25	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U26	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I did not understand which Gulf countries were to be opened by the embassy, whether it is the Gulf of Finland, the Gulf of Mexico, or some other Gulf. But all right. Let's get as specific as possible. What is the cost, estimated and planned cost if we open a diplomatic or, for example, only a trade industry over a year or more? What is the state's cost of participation in Expo and what is the income it is expected to generate, either in terms of GDP or as a real return to entrepreneurship? Is there any possibility that the state will somehow directly earn revenue?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U27	Thank you very much for your question. Let me make it clear that we're talking about opening a representation in Abu Dhabi, the capital of Dubai. But speaking of costs, as I said earlier, Expo's participation has a minimum cost of four million, so we have assessed. For example, participating in the Milan Fair cost nearly five million. It's hard to deal with less, especially going to a country this far. As far as the opening of a diplomatic mission is concerned, if there are five people, one of whom is an EAS representative, and this would be purely business diplomacy, the fixed costs would be EUR 800000 per year and the one-off opening costs would be EUR 75000. What are the benefits later? It is, of course, difficult to estimate specific amounts in advance. However, it can be said that the interest of entrepreneurs in the region has increased. Our businesses are increasingly active there, especially in the services sector, and this is particularly the case with ICT developments. The export turnover to the United Arab Emirates has also increased every year. While in 2014 exports amounted to 20.3 million euros, in 2015 it was already EUR 33.8 million. Last year it was again 1.5 times more, so exports will gradually increase there. The share of imports is relatively small, but we have, above all, pursued exports. I think there's potential. Soon, if I'm wrong, a high-level delegation from the United Arab Emirates will be here. They're on a tour of the Baltics. We will also contact potential investors who are interested in investing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U28	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U29	Now the Minister for Education and Science answers the question asked by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Education and Science, a beautiful mother tongue day for you! I will continue with this in the same spirit as my colleague, Mr Lauri, has already started, namely the implementation of amendments to the law on basic school and upper secondary school. As we know, there was a completely new principle, I dare say, that the introduction of enhanced and special support goes to non-school counselling teams, of course, in cooperation with schools. Now we hear these counseling teams haven't been able to issue any decisions yet. However, we also pointed out here in the Riigikogu that when this law applies, all preparations should be made. What is behind the implementation of advisory teams?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U31	Thank you for a very important question. I must assure you that in the Ministry of Education and Research we have dealt with the same subject every week. The reason that the consultative committees have pointed out is that they take every case to be transferred with all seriousness, they do not want to be wrong, and all this has taken time. I do not dare to confirm whether none have been issued, but certainly this process has not been as operational as all parties have actually wanted. We are paying attention to this and we are still waiting for it, but it has not been as automatic and as fast as we all would like. There are many reasons for what the Pathfinder centers have brought. One is that individual attempts are made to review everything, it's not just an uplift of any numbers. They have said that at the same time there is regular counseling and all the time there will be new applications. There is also next year's appointment to schools with a whole range of applications for extensions or earlier school leave applications, all of which require attention in turn. These are explanations, but it is certainly our aim that this process should go as much as the legislator wanted, i.e. be as carefree as possible and as flexible as possible for parents. Right now, it's been a little slower than we expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U32	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. There has also been talk about this and it is also enshrined in the law that schools will receive separate operating support to train children with enhanced and special support. The Ministry has confirmed that schools have been provided with as much and diverse information as possible, yet several schools have come up with the question of when the operating grant for them could reach them. Will it arrive with the decision of the counseling team or only after the work has started? They still have certain questions and confusion about this financing model. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U34	Thank you. Indeed, if you come to school now, many schools have not yet received the money. I know that discussions are still ongoing, both in smaller municipalities and in larger cities. The best specialists are trying to decide, the legislator has given us instructions, and we have watched on the side of the country how to allocate additional budgetary resources so that they go individually to every child exactly where he goes to school. At the same time, we expect that there will also be counseling for this school and that the school will come along and be part of the competence that already exists across the city or county level. This is also the reason why many cities have been discussing how to make use of the best experience so that when money reaches schools now it has not yet reached all schools, it can also be used in the best way. This could mean targeted money for finding staff directly for support services and for employing, for example, a special educator, which could mean flexible opportunities for the school environment, such as small classes already formed, so that there will be support staff. We have also discussed here in the Riigikogu that the local government should not reduce its targeted finances and investments already made, because the additional money should also bring some kind of positive solution. So I really admit that there is confusion at school level because I do not know what will change from now on. Our expectation is that something will get much better, but it all needs additional work at the level of schools and local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U35	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U36	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! During the procedure of this act, the concept of assistant teacher was added to the text in the Riigikogu, including on the proposal of the Free Party and with the approval of the Commission and the Ministry. I thought that was very important. Have any progress been made in clarifying the content of this concept of assistant teacher with the drafting of a statute on the possibilities, rights, obligations of an assistant teacher?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U37	Thank you. I know that, from the side of the Riigikogu, bureaucratic steps are going too slowly. From the ministry's side, it's understandable from time to time. To date, we have only had our first meetings with the target groups, where we have discussed the expectations of the assistant teacher, both in kindergarten and school terms. For example, when we talk about qualifications, whether the introduction of an assistant teacher to the kindergarten level is the same as the current teacher's help, or whether it is the same as that of a 1+2 model in kindergartens, where the teacher's assistant's name is used, and whether both the assistant and teacher's help of the kindergarten system remain in the kindergarten system and whether the qualification rules need to be put in place for both. That is how far we have come by now with our discussions. At the moment, it seems that it will take some time for qualifications to be introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U38	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U39	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U40	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! Estonia is a member of NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. NATO is also a member of Great Britain. The British Prime Minister has openly and unusually made direct reference to Russia's footsteps in Europe, the first chemical weapon to be used and poisoned since World War II. The Centre Party, which you are chairing, has an agreement with the United Russia, which provides for exchanges of information on important issues. These two values are very conflicting. My question to you is this: which agreement do you consider more important? Waiting for an answer in Estonia's interest, will you be sure that you will not cancel the agreement with United Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U41	Thank you. Well, you can still put completely unrealistic things into one question. Of course, I personally and the entire government community supports the fact that Estonia is an active NATO member today, tomorrow and also in the future. What you referred to in your question, this case of nerve gas poisoning in Britain, is, of course, a serious case. I also met yesterday with ambassadors from most European Union countries who reside in Estonia. I clearly said that Estonia strongly condemns such an attack. I also said that we support and trust the information that comes from our ally, Britain, in examining this case. I think that all countries should cooperate quickly to find out the facts of this case. This is the most serious chemical weapon use case in Europe. I have also met with representatives of the Estonian authorities today and have received as precise information as we currently can about this attack in Estonia. The second protocol, to which you refer, even you know that it does not work and does not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U42	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U43	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Let's get on with it. In recent months, the Central Party has called for no conflict between the East and the West. All said was the question of humanity, that's how the ideologies and campaigners of the Centre Party write. Criticism of the Kremlin's activities here I refer, for example, to influence action against the self-being of states, in the opinion of these middle party members, is a russophobia. As Prime Minister of the European Union and NATO, in the light of the use, poisoning and recent Putin message that Crimea will never and never be returned to Ukraine, in the light of the use of chemical weapons in the United Kingdom in NATO country, you will remain sure that the Centre Party will remain a Contract partner for the United Russia and that this agreement will not be revoked?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U44	I have already answered you by answering the previous question, and I repeat: this protocol does not exist. Now on, I actually understand what the background to your question is. You want to bring this contrast to the table again in Estonian society. It must be said that this move has been a successful map for the Reform Party. It has been a successful map in 2007, 2011 and 2015. I very much hope, and it is certainly my duty as a citizen of the Estonian state, that in a 100-year-old country we are all so wise and do not bring out the map with which to create 'they' and 'we'. The 1.3 million people here are all our people. I support your election ad, and I support the chairman of your party. The chairman of your party, Mr Hanno Pevkur, has said at the end of last year, it was perhaps in October that such confrontation should disappear in Estonian society. Your election ad 2017 says very correct words to me: 'Choose a strong team, choose strong Estonia! '. I very much hope that you, as a team behind the chairman of your party, will end this opposition to the Estonian society that you have, must be admitted, quite fruitfully carried in previous elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U45	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U46	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Prime Minister! As a member of the Riigikogu and as a father, I am quite concerned when a neighbour says that Crimea will never be returned. When I look at your answers, I see that it doesn't bother you at all. I ask you straight: will you cancel or cancel this agreement, which you call unrealistic and non-existent? It is not even a question of legalism, it is a question of morality and ethics, whether we can accept it if, at this time, someone can say that Crimea will never be returned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U47	Thank you. Well, I don't know how clear you can be. If I say that this agreement, this protocol, does not exist, it does not exist. Now on from Crimea. I think that the position that Estonia has had in relation to Ukraine must continue; it must be strong. This must be our business in the wider world, in Europe, in the European Union, in order to put an end to the war in Eastern Ukraine. I do not think that this sentence must be accepted, that Crimea will never be returned. I don't know where you're gonna take it that it hasn't been asked, and I haven't answered it. On the contrary, I have always said before you in front of the honourable Riigikogu that Crimea belongs to Ukraine. You have to stand up for that. We know from our history that it will take time, perhaps very long, to regain independence, but we have to stand up for it, we have to act for it, every hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U48	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U49	A question for the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The question concerns the position of Estonian language in our universities and as a scientific language. As we know, the Constitution states that our people have the right to receive education in Estonian, and the Education Act also says that on Estonian territory the state and local government guarantee the possibility of obtaining education in Estonian at all levels of education in public educational institutions and universities. At the same time, we see more and more English breaking into our universities. This is contrary to the language law, according to which measures supporting foreign languages must not harm the Estonian language. Does the Ministry of Education monitor the English invasion with concern and plan any steps to slow it down or simply watch?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U51	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, the Ministry of Education and Research is very, very direct with higher education institutions. Even today, just before Question Time started, it was possible to take a live look at the debate on the present and future of higher education, so this issue will come at the very right moment. We are now reviewing where we have reached since 2011 with our reform of higher education. The Riigikogu also set very clear objectives when Estonian-language higher education was made available free of charge. We are doing mid-term reviews now, because next year we should conclude new administrative agreements with universities, where we will agree on the state's expectations of universities for the next three or four years. My first answer to you is that we will certainly expect proposals from this Riigikogu, with the Ministry of Education and Research and other ministries, what are the expectations of higher education over the next three to four years. We can write all these things into the management contract All such nuances can be recorded in management contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U52	Mart Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U53	Thank you for your answer. However, we also know that, in recent times, the subject has been seriously on the agenda, that free higher education may disappear at all, because it is unsustainable. From my experience, I have seen one university, though true, become a completely Russian-speaking university within ten years from a university in Estonian, and most of the students were Estonians. If, now, the fact that higher education is going back to pay, does this mean that higher education will disappear in Estonian, just as in this private university?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U54	Thank you. The subject of the introduction of paid learning is certainly very attractive in debates, if the results of free higher education or higher education reform are to be monitored. That's interesting. For example, it is particularly easy for the debate club to make groups with pros and cons. In terms of funding higher education and sustainability of higher education, the subject of tuition is, in fact, highly complex. It has been tried to be extremely simple, as if it would bring extra money to higher education institutions, and then the state would no longer have to find additional resources to ensure that there would be no serious problems in finding young teachers in higher education institutions over the next three or four years and that the salaries of teaching staff would be competitive. Universities alone cannot guarantee all this efficiency. Nor does the return of tuition tax exempt taxpayers' money, because if there is tuition tax, in any case, there must also be a system of educational support at national level that would give everyone the opportunity, regardless of where someone lives or what their wealth is. Australian experience tells us that it actually started bringing money back to the state budget only 14 years later. So, in my opinion, neither from the point of view of the ministry is the return of tuition fees a solution. The introduction of paid education into higher education is not something we would like to see. There is certainly a need to find more public resources to conclude contracts with universities for the next three or four years and to be able to pay teachers a competitive salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U55	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U56	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! Although you and the Prime Minister are sitting between the Minister of Information Technology, it seems to me that you have no connection. In the case of this single agreement, you could talk about your participation in the conclusion of this agreement. That's what you can do after briefing. But the sustainability of the Estonian language in higher education has been quite a topic for discussion, and I would like to ask you, as a minister, whether the right is for those people who fear that if English as a scientific language and as a language of instruction invades so strongly in universities, it will clearly have a negative impact on the development of the Estonian language and on the university in their native language. Or is it just an emotional expression? Are there any studies that could confirm or disprove it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U57	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, as regards the role of the Estonian language in society, the debate on this subject, I understand, is also up here in the Riigikogu tomorrow. That is a legitimate question. After all, Estonian is not only important to us today, on Mother's Day, on our simple tissue, but we are actually talking about the development of the scientific language, the development of any sectoral vocabulary. There, higher education and science are of symbolic importance. First of all, the Ministry of Education and Research, as responsible for the field, is very careful to review what these additional measures, the additional steps that we should take, together with universities, research institutions and other ministries responsible for the field, so that language really develops constantly in terminological terms. This is not just a matter of language people; it is a matter of responsibility for professionals in different fields. They must be pressured together so that the Estonian scientific language develops terminologically and is not corrupted. The second issue, which is also important, is whether we should be concerned. We must be very concerned when we see, at some point, that in some areas either the production of science or the provision of higher education is hampered and remains only English. We need to be careful not to create whole areas where such temptation might arise. That is why the moment when administrative contracts are concluded is very important. Universities themselves are also very interested in negotiating what proportion we have of foreign students or foreign lecturers who, of course, do not tend to speak Estonian, and how much our own desire to maintain education in Estonian is. This is definitely the subject of the next six months.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U58	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U59	Monika Haukamm asks the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology a question. A question for Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the development of the Information System of the Social Insurance Board (SKAIS2). We have already dealt with this issue repeatedly and repeatedly here. It's like a success story has turned into a saga that's been taking years. I understand that the development of this information system is not directly within your competence, but you are the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology and you have a whole department of people responsible for developing the state's information systems and databases. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications indicated already in 2015 that the Ministry of Social Affairs may not have enough people or really enough skills to carry out such a large project. The contracting authority should have the necessary skills to know what to order. How can you see how much you as the responsible minister can get involved in this? You know this saga isn't over yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U61	Thank you. First of all, I want to fix a mistake, a glitch. I would like to thank my colleague, Mailis Reps, for pointing this out. It shows that we have very good cooperation and teamwork. Before, when I was talking about Dubai Expost and going there, I said wrong. I repeat now: Abu Dhabi is the capital of the United Arab Emirates and nothing else. I'm a human being too, not a robot, so sometimes there's a glitch. Once again, thank you to my colleague for that. If you answer the question, then indeed, a good questioner, this area concerning the development of the SKIAIS2 is purely the area of the Minister for Social Protection. When we talk about me as Minister for Information Technology, our opportunities are small, our hands are actually rather short, i.e. we cannot intervene directly in the administration of every ministry. However, I am pleased that last spring we adopted a regulation with the current government, according to which every ministry has now also designated a sectoral IT service manager. Up to the point that every service is responsible, someone who is responsible for how our e-government services are developed in ministries and administrative areas. It also provides an opportunity to see whose responsibilities something moves and where there are shortcomings. In replying very specifically, as far as I am aware of the matter of the SKIAS2, the Ministry of Social Affairs has today developed a new roadmap and a plan for how to proceed, and has also presented it to us for review. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has broadly approved the new roadmap. If there is a debate on the country's budgetary strategy, the funds will be asked for. I hope that, after the question to be specified, I can still answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U62	I hope so. Monika Haukanõmm, please ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your answer. When we think about what has taken place in the last five years, when the first development kick-off was around EUR 8.6 million. A new framework procurement has been announced and should be completed by now. We are talking about an additional EUR 12 million over the next four years, so this is a very, very large amount of money. I am not sure that if there is a regulation that says that we now have a person in charge of IT services, this will solve the situation. Given the importance of the SKIAIS in Estonia, this activity should be much closer and more substantial. Do you intend, for example, to ask the risk assessment committee, the steering committee, for example, to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to be present and keep an eye on this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U64	This regulation, to which I referred, is a broader issue. In May last year, the Government of the Republic approved, indeed for a very long time, a regulation on the basis of the organisation of services and information management, which, for the first time, will require the quality of service from public authorities at all. This is a very important issue, and this is what the President referred to in his speech. At all, there is much room for improvement in the development of e-services in the Estonian state, but there will be no development if there are no responsible people in the end people are still developing. If we come back to the SKIAIS2, I repeat, this is a matter of responsibility for the Minister for Social Protection. I can now communicate what the Minister for Social Protection has done to my knowledge so that this does not happen again. The Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre has been established. When we analyzed why the SKIAIS1 really went so wrong in the past, there were three main reasons. One was that the Ministry of Social Affairs' own competence to order such a thing and to develop a procurement was incomplete. Secondly, the winner of the procurement also overestimated his competence. Thirdly, too much was done at the same time, the whole system was to be developed together. Now it's all learned. The Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre has been set up, with considerably higher competences. After all, it depends on people being able to order the right thing. Secondly, it is not ordering one whole anymore, but developing in a piecemeal manner. This is figuratively like the Tartu-Tallinn highway, where we do not tender for one builder at a time, but build by parts. Here, too, part by part is being taken of that in the future, if any changes are to be made or something goes wrong, there is no one large information system that is broken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U65	Thank you. Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs, we talked about regional transport. It's not the free transportation that leads anywhere, it's the information technology. One of the concerns that actually emerged was that whether you, as a minister, have taken the initiative or are willing to do so in order to have a common e-ticket system in Estonian public transport, so that, regardless of the form of the Estonian operator and the county in which he is operating, a person who wants to move into this system can conveniently order claims stops as well as other stops through a single information system. Are you ready to take this on yourself if it hasn't already been done?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U67	Thank you for your question. This concerns the administration of transport in Estonia and how many e-solutions to offer there. I certainly support this idea, and I am prepared to think along, but the theme setting, as such, is still the responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and, as far as I know, he is dealing with it. It is planned to develop an e-solution in Saaremaa, i.e. start testing it in Saaremaa and see how it goes, then it can be further developed for the whole of Estonia. As far as I know, they're already working on it. The Road Administration and the Ministry of Economic Affairs were also represented at today's meeting, so plans are being made on this subject. In the end, I believe that's where we're going. Sooner or later, we will also see e-solutions in the transport system. I know that the Finnish Minister for Transport, for example, has taken good action on this, Finland is also dealing with this issue. But once again, I believe Kadri Simson can answer you quite specifically. As far as I know, he's working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U68	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U69	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to initiate drafts or submit inquiries? No, I don't. Then I have a message for you. Namely, today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Tartu Regional Development Support Group. The caller is Aadu Black. Let's move on to the agenda. [[A comment from the floor.]] Sure, I'm sorry! Incoming check, please! 72 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U70	We will go to today's agenda: the third reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Monika Haukanõmm, please, on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Weeks ago, there was a second reading of this bill, and on behalf of the Free Party, I proposed that the reading of the draft be discontinued. Why? I explained that quite a long time ago. But the reason is simple: this is a draft which, regrettably, developed between the first reading and the second reading into a cluster bill where, on the basis of the amendment proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, two completely inappropriate issues were brought together. The original bill, which the people are beginning to call the bill of spying on young people, is upsetting the social democrats, but that is the name they have received, gives the municipalities an own-initiative right to inquire about all young people up to 26 years of age living on their territory. The goal is to find out if there are some who are not studying, working, or looking for a job. With this request for data in different registers, you want to know if any of them would need help. After an initial request and a request, a young person can always say that please stop processing my data, I do not want help. It's all very nice. But it is worrying that if such consent is requested at 16 years of age and he says he does not want this help, for example, will we not turn to him in the next ten years. The assessment of young people's behaviour is, of course, necessary; we do not dispute it, because very many young people have been excluded from active life. Youth unemployment is higher than on average. But is the solution that is now being proposed the most sensible? We challenge the method chosen and its scope.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U72	Sorry, waitress! People's ambassadors Sester, Michal, Holsmer and all the other ladies and gentlemen! The speaker is very difficult to perform in front of you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U73	Thank you. The draft allows municipalities to proactively provide support for young people who may need help to start working or return to education. But who would have thought that in order to achieve this good goal, it would go so far that personal data would be processed too massively, i.e. spontaneous snooping will take place. Both the Data Protection Inspectorate and the Chancellor of Justice were very critical of the draft, indicating that the processing of data in this way is contrary to the Constitution. In essence, this is an invasion of privacy. Of course, we have been criticised by the European Union for not paying enough attention to NEETs. And so we have reached a situation that can be described orwellically as such: the big brother has decided to move to Estonia. Is this another step towards a society of prohibition and command? Because the state knows what young people need, even though they may not know it yet. We don't really need that kind of law. The current Welfare Act has all the tools to collect and analyse statistical data and help young people. Social work is still based on the principle: in order to get help, you have to ask for help, i.e. you also want help. Of course, that doesn't apply to children. We now want to give local governments the right to search for own-initiative data, perhaps someone needs help, rather than dealing with the prevention of "young people's inactivity," to encourage some school entry and retention, to develop flexible and simple employment relationships, etc. But now I come to the other side, which is actually good in this law and which turned this bill into a cluster bill. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U74	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U75	The Ministry of Social Affairs wanted to include a point in the draft whereby the personal assistant service would be exempt from VAT. Since 2016, we have a new version of the Social Welfare Act. Regrettably, however, in contrast to other social services, the service of a personal assistant who supports the livelihood of many people with disabilities remained subject to VAT. This is an unfair situation and urgently needs to be changed. That's not what we're against. At the same time, it is completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible why it has taken so long, even though the Ministry of Social Affairs had information that there was a concern with the personal assistant service. Why didn't the Ministry start a separate legislative amendment earlier? Why has it been stretched so long, and why did it have to be included in this bill? Now this is my question, which I also asked a week ago: how should we vote if the original draft cannot be supported in any way, but on the other hand, I would certainly like to support it? One bill cannot be in favour and against at the same time, but in today's final vote, it is one whole. As it is necessary to vote in favour of a good change in order to give people with disabilities a greater chance to receive a little more service, the service will become more accessible and affordable for those in need, the voice must inevitably be given to the totally inappropriate part of snooping. However, this is neither fair nor in line with good legislative practice. Since we are now going to vote on the cluster bill, let us be clear: we do not support spying on young people, but we do support the exemption of the personal helper from VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U76	Please, Kalvi on behalf of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U77	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Like Monika, exactly a week ago I stood in front of you and talked about the same bill. Today, this bill will come to a final vote, and I am still sure that this is a very sensible draft. Dear friends, I agree with many practitioners, youth workers and social workers who are in contact with young people every day and who are aware of their concerns. Let me quote here from Heidi Paabort, the project manager of the Youth Support Office, who has been working with these young people for several years, who found in the latest Teachers' page: 'Without this amendment to the law, some young people may be excluded from active social life, even though there are services and opportunities to help them. The law would provide greater assurance that the problems of young people will be addressed more permanently and that the "luck factor" part would be reduced, whether or not the problem is noticed. We must remember that it is a little easier to help these young people now than tomorrow. Those in trouble may be your own child or a well - known child. So wrote Heidi Paabort. Heidi's thoughts can be signed with two hands. It is a fact that there are numerous young people across Estonia who have dropped out of school and who often do not know or even fear to ask for help and who have stayed in the loop. In order to help young people who have lost their place and remain at home on Friday, they must first be found. Only then can they be directed back to the school bench or to the labour market and brought back into active social life. The experience of Germany and the Nordic countries also says that early intervention reduces the likelihood that a young person in distress will fall into the ranks of the discouraged and under the care of the social system. Let us admit that a few 30 or 40 - year - old men who are now going to the village store for a strong beer and who are no longer a workman could have been saved 10 or 20 years ago if they had been determined to act. Now both the state and the municipality have much more services, opportunities and knowledge to support the risk youth standing on their way to life. The Youth Guarantee support system, which is being created, plays a very important role in reaching young people, in my opinion. A week ago, I had a little debate with the politicians of the Free Party in this very chair. They've started attacking the bill for incomprehensible reasons and scaring us with spying stories. Ladies and gentlemen, good free partyers! Let it be confirmed once again that not all operations will be subject to data protection rules. This has also been confirmed during the procedure of the draft. Youth and social workers will have the right to receive information from national registers on the basis of specific rules. If it turns out that a young person does not study, work, do not serve in the Defence Forces, does not engage in entrepreneurship or raise a child, the official will try to contact him, provide him with help, and direct him to suitable unemployment fund services or education systems. And if a young person doesn't want to do anything, that's the way it's gonna be. Figuratively speaking, he doesn't knock on the door anymore. Nobody gets pressured. To date, six municipalities have expressed their wish to participate in a pilot project and still to help. Let them, good friends, do it! Let us help them lead the young ones on the right path! Estonia is a small country, we must have an important person, a young person standing at the beginning of every life. Everyone has the right to win from this law to defeat inactive young people, their parents, society as a whole, and no one loses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U78	I'm closing the negotiations. We will hold a final vote on the proposal of the lead committee. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 558. Please take a stand and vote. There were 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, no one opposed, with 12 abstentions. The Act amending the Social Welfare Act and other laws has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U79	Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 536. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the final vote? Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 536. Please take a stand and vote. 73 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft, 6 against and no abstentions. Bill 536 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U80	Second reading of draft Act 568 on the approval of the 2012 amendments to the Protocol on Heavy Metals to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee is Rainer Vakra. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U81	Honourable Chairman! Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present to you the draft Act approving the 2012 amendments to the Protocol on Heavy Metals to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution and what took place between the first reading and the second reading in the Steering Committee. I would remind you, then, that this draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 8 January 2018. We completed our first reading here with you on 7 February and set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 21 February at 4 p.m. The members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and the committees did not submit any proposals to amend the draft. During the period between first and second reading, the Committee on the Environment has discussed the draft at a meeting held on 8 March, i.e. Women's Day. There have been linguistic and technical changes to the draft law, which in no case alter the substance of the draft law. The Committee on the Environment took procedural decisions and proposals at its meeting on 8 March. The committee decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, i.e. by 14 March, and to propose a final vote. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support the draft. I would also like to remind you that its aim is to reduce the emissions of heavy metals generated by human activity, which extend across national borders and are likely to have significant adverse effects on human health and the environment. I would also like to remind you that, in essence, the requirements of the Protocol have already been transposed into Estonian legislation by the Industrial Emissions Act in 2013 and the adoption of this draft in lawmaking in particular does not impose any additional obligations on Estonian companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U82	Questions for the waitress. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U83	Thank you, good speaker! Good waitress! The question is simple. I mean, the subject is important, certainly very important! All these heavy metals salts and heavy metals ions. But, apart from human health and the environment, is it also meant that because of heavy metal pollution, the limestone and dolomite of our national stone and other carbonated rocks, on which the Republic of Estonia is built, and what is our honour and pride and history? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U84	Thank you for your very correct question in Estonian. On Mother's Day, you can score five for that question. When we are talking about the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution, it is indeed trans-national and includes our own stones as well as what we are doing here in the Republic of Estonia. But, as I said, our legislation already provides for a better position than what we are confirming today in this convention. Estonia, along with other countries of the European Union, is also at the forefront of limiting heavy metal emissions. I hope that, with your help, we will show the rest of the world that there is reason to follow suit from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U85	No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law approving the 2012 amendments to the Heavy Metal Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 568. Please take a stand and vote. There were 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, 7 against the Riigikogu and no abstentions. Bill 568 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U86	Second reading of the draft Act on Accession of the European Forest Institute to the Convention initiated by the Government of the Republic 567. Peeter Ernits, the Environment Committee waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. There's not much to talk about this bill like the last one. It is only a shame that we have been in Europe for a red lantern. Yesterday, the forestry development plan began to be drawn up, and the main speaker we had invited was the head of the European Forest Institute. It is not good that it took us 15 years to accede to this convention now. By the end of last year, 28 European countries had joined it. But I'm glad we're finally doing this. In short, we discussed this on 8 March or there was nothing really to discuss. The only decision was that we will present it today in the large hall and we propose a final vote. No amendments with a deadline of 21 February were tabled. There's nothing to put forward, that's the text of the convention, and it's stupidity to start improving it. So I propose that we vote in favour. There's nothing else to say. One shame just ends with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U88	Questions for the waitress. Laine Randjärv.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U89	Thank you. First of all, about this bill, better late than never. But I have this question: what will change besides getting rid of the shame? If I understand correctly, the University of Life Sciences is already an associated member of the University of Life Sciences, and now the state of Estonia accedes to this convention. What's gonna change, exactly? Are we going to pay any more money? What's gonna change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U90	Thank you for your question. Actually, it doesn't change much. We can be at the table with all European countries and also participate in the decision-making process. We don't have to pay money as a country. This factor is often important and maybe it has also slowed down the participation of the company to participate in another venture if the money has to be paid, but it does not have to be paid here. We can pay, but we may not. There is no obligation. The only change is that we can be at the decision-makers' table with all 28 countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U91	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Was it discussed in the Commission why this situation arose, that it took us 15 years to conclude that we should also accede to this Convention? We consider ourselves one of the most forest-rich countries in the European Union, don't we?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U93	Thank you for your question. I asked it at first, too, and I tried to find out why. I was told something was discussed once, but the papers are gone and they don't know for sure. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U94	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U95	Thank you. I have one more point to clarify. What have we been deprived of in this 15 years of opportunities, rights or, for example, information, information? Has there been talk about this anywhere, or is it just known to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U96	Thank you for your question. I was interested, too, but the Minister and other officials explained that it was like a raspberry approach. Since we have an associate member of the University of Life Sciences, we'll get the information through them. But as I said, the Estonian state did not consider it necessary to sit at the decision-makers' table. So we've got the information, but we haven't been involved in the decision-making process in 15 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U97	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U98	Thank you, dear waitress. There have been questions about why nothing has been done in 15 years. Is this the work done by the last ministers, or is it the work done by previous governments and ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U99	Thank you for your question. We have also discussed this in the Committee on the Environment; we have discussed this on several occasions. And as I understand it, there's a lot of similar conventions in the ministry drawers. If you've noticed, there's been a lot of them coming into this hall lately, and I can tell you there's more coming. I can't tell you what kind of minister or someone else's drawer they've been dusting and how long they've been standing there, but there's a lot of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U100	Thank you, Peter Ernits! We can assume that the members of the Riigikogu are now clear. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There were also no proposals to amend draft 567. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act of Accession of the European Forest Institute to the Convention, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 567. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, no respondents or abstentions. The Act of Accession of the European Forest Institute to the Convention has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U101	Second reading of the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waitress Erki Savisaar of the Economic Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed sending the draft to second reading at its two meetings on 6 and 12 March. To remind you so much, the draft law amending the State Assets Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 8 January. The first reading of the draft was held in the Riigikogu on 14 February and the first reading was completed. The purpose of the amendment to the State Assets Act is to supplement the principles governing the management of public undertakings in a situation where the State participates in a company whose securities are listed on a regulated securities market or the listing of which is subject to an application. On 6 March, a decision was adopted to include the second reading of this draft on the agenda of today's plenary session. On 12 March, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and other procedural decisions were taken. Tarmo Carrots, Deputy Head of State Property Department of the Ministry of Finance, also participated in the meeting. The draft has also been sent to the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for technical and linguistic purposes. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline of 28 February at 5 p.m. An amendment to the removal of the entry into force provision was submitted to the commission for consideration, in cooperation with the representative of the initiator. Paragraph 2 of the draft law provides for the entry into force of an amendment to the State Assets Act, including on 1 April. Third reading of the draft, however, the final vote is scheduled for 21 March and the President of the Republic has two weeks after the adoption of the Act to announce it, which means that this decision may come after 1 April. The National Gazette must also have time to publish the text of the Act. Consequently, the representative of the initiator of the draft considered it appropriate to delete the provision on the entry into force of the law from the draft. When taking into account the amendment, the Act amending the State Property Act enters into force in general terms, i.e. on the 10th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. As a result of the deletion of the entry into force provision, a second amendment has also been made, since if the draft consists of only one paragraph, there is no need to title and number the paragraphs and therefore the title of § 1 is deleted from the text of the draft. At the initiative of the language editor, the word'securities' is included in the text of the draft, which is underlined in the text of the second reading of the draft. All decisions were taken by consensus by the Commission: it was decided to propose the end of the second reading of the draft and, if the second reading is closed, to carry out the third reading of the draft on 21 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U103	Aivar Sõerd, please, question to the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! If I remember correctly, this bill came about in connection with the IPO of the Port of Tallinn. Tell me, you are the outstanding representative of the coalition, the state of the IPO of the port! This preparation has been underway for a long time. The Port of Tallinn has held a press conference, there are advisors involved, and in spring this IPO was supposed to come. What's the status, and when's the stock deal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U105	Thank you. This draft arose because public authorities are subject to slightly different rules than stock exchange companies. This is precisely the case with the various economic forecasts and the many other issues that we discussed here last time. Since stock exchange companies are not allowed to have these differences, the law makes adjustments in this respect. I can't tell you how far it is for the government to bring different state companies to the stock market and what happens on the day. However, the committee really discussed when the listing of the Port of Tallinn would come. We gave a clear message that if this happened before the summer vacation, it would be very good. It doesn't make sense in the summer. If we don't make it before summer, we'd rather have it in the fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U106	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There has been one amendment to the draft. Any views on that? No, it's not. The second reading of Bill 570 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U107	First reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, will make a presentation on behalf of the originator. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U108	Hello, honourable Riigikogu. Mr President of the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Aliens Act to the Riigikogu. Its aim is to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, voluntary service, participation in student exchange programmes or educational projects and working as au pair, i.e. for the purpose of home or childcare. In Estonia, the arrival and residence of foreigners is regulated by the Aliens Act, which is why the amendments to the directive are intended to be laid down in this legislation. The draft introduces five major changes. If you don't mind, I'll give you an overview. Firstly, the mobility of researchers and students from third countries within the European Union will be facilitated. As a new regulation, the Directive provides for movement between Member States. Researchers can do research and students can study in another Member State for six months and one year without having to apply for a residence permit in the host Member State. This means that a visa issued by another Member State or a residence permit granted under the Directive for research or study can carry out research and study in Estonia as well. For this purpose, you no longer need to apply for a separate residence permit in Estonia. Secondly, the regulation of short-term work is improved and short-term work can be registered for practice purposes. The duration of a professional traineeship may be up to six months and may also be paid for by an alien. The rules governing the granting of a residence permit for study are also amended so that fees may be paid in the course of taking part in a traineeship mediated by a university of applied sciences, a university or an international student organisation. The conditions are that an alien must have completed higher education in the last two years or have completed higher education. There must also be an apprenticeship agreement between the trainee and the host institution. In addition, the Directive introduces regulation for the recruitment of third-country babysitter-house helpers. To clarify that the term "child-caregiver' is new in Estonian legal language and is an Estonian equivalent to the word "au pair' used in the directive. The draft stipulates that, in order to register working as a short-term baby-sitter-home-helper, an alien must have concluded an agreement with the family who receives him or her permanently residing in Estonia, that the family will be assisted in caring for the child and in carrying out lighter household chores. The main purpose of the stay is to improve your language skills and to learn about Estonian society, culture and lifestyle. Consequently, the maximum weekly working time and the maximum stay in Estonia are set. The amount of work shall not exceed 25 hours per week and the duration of the residence permit shall not exceed one year. The fourth amendment extends the period of legal stay of researchers, students and academics in Estonia after the expiry of the residence permit from 183 days to 270 days. This allows lecturers, researchers and students to stay in Estonia for another 270 days after completing their research or completing their studies in order to work or start a business. And the last major change that I consider to be one of the most important: the Police and Border Guard Board will allow the temporary stay of an alien in Estonia to be terminated before the deadline if an alien has violated the conditions for stay in Estonia. According to the draft, the owner of a long-stay EU visa, or D-visa, can be obliged to leave Estonia in the future if the visa holder violates the rules of temporary stay, such as the rules of employment. The amendment is primarily necessary in relation to cases of misuse of the right to work in Estonia, in order to improve the prevention and prevention of illegal work in Estonia. In the past, the police were able to fine the company in the event of illegal employment, but the foreigner could still stay in Estonia. There was no reason to force him to leave, and basically he could continue working illegally until he got caught again. And it was also used, that fine money was included in the construction price. With the amendment contained in the draft, we can improve this situation and force the person to leave Estonia in the event of an infringement. And finally, the deadline for entry into force. According to the deadline for transposition of the Directive, the law is due to enter into force on 23 May this year and, consequently, we have proposed that the law enter into force on that date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U109	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U110	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Can you simply explain to us what the problem is and is changing the Aliens Act the best way to get rid of this problem? At the moment, I heard that we have students and domestic workers, some of whom violate the law. Just please! What is the problem and is it the best measure to solve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U111	Thank you. The problem is very simple. When people are involved in science and these people are in Europe at all times or are studying, it is precisely when people can move between universities that gives the best basis. When I studied 20 years ago, I studied in the United States. I think I have a lot of people in the world with the same fate. The bigger the education, the better. That's one. Another thing is that if a foreigner has to undergo an internship during his studies, he has not yet been able to do so legally. In the future, he could do so, and he could also charge money for an internship if the internship is subject to a fee. As for baby-sitters-home helpers, hundreds of young people in Estonia, if not thousands of young people have gone to Australia, the United States, Canada, Great Britain and elsewhere to spend a certain time there and gain international experience, maybe to explore their learning opportunities as well. But why is there also a point in the draft on visa cancellations? Because all the same possibilities that I was talking about could lead to abuse. In order for the police, as a responsible organisation, to be able to put an end to these abuses without delay, it is necessary to regulate the withdrawal of this D-visa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U112	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Researchers and lecturers are allowed to extend their stay for 270 days after the end of the residence permit. What's the 270 days coming from? Why a number like that? And how much interest do our higher education institutions have in this extension? I have seen that the University of Tartu has presented its proposal and coordination, but not the Council of Rectors or any other higher education institution, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U114	Thank you. We always send this legislation to all parties for coordination. Some are actively using this option for some drafts, some less. 270 days is an agreed period in Europe. During this period, a person can decide whether he or she wants to bind himself to this country, to contribute to the economy and science of that country, or just to pull together his or her actions, everything he or she has done here over the years. And then you can leave. This 270 days is an agreed time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U115	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! In answering the first question, you said that the problem of domestic workers needs to be solved. Our people really go abroad to learn local or English, but how many people come here because of the Estonian language? Do you expect more of these domestics to come here? And how did these domestics end up next to scientists and students? And why is the entry into force of May 23? Otherwise, the laws will still enter into force on the first day of the month, but now on 23 May. It's a nice number, but why?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U117	Thank you. I'll start at the back: Why May 23rd. Since this is a joint European Union legislation, it is precisely 23 May that day that we could have a directive in force. All in all, you make that decision. If May 23 is not suitable for you, you can choose June 1 or another date. However, on behalf of our executive, we have proposed this. That's one. Secondly, by the way, the movement of these same au pairs or baby-sitters-home helpers has a great deal to do with young people, students and students. If they are in one country or another as a babysitter, they will also make decisions where they can go to study. In this way, they may establish a basis for entering the educational market in one country or another. And I wouldn't be so pessimistic about who still wants to come here to learn Estonian. They come not only to learn the Estonian language, which is certainly an added value, but they also come to learn exactly the possibilities to be used in our universities afterwards. And believe me, there are still a lot of students coming from all over the world. Estonian universities are big. I think that such a movement of future world developers can be promoted in different ways. But surely the state must also be able to take those who abuse these opportunities off this journey.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U118	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U119	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! This draft was also in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and was the subject of a rather lively debate. My first question focuses on the transposition of this directive. How many countries have transposed this directive into their legislation on the same scale as we do, or practically full, although there is no such obligation? Perhaps you will explain further why we have decided to transpose the directive almost one to one. For example, the au pairs, or baby-sitter points, are not obliged to transpose the directive, but gives quite a degree of freedom.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U120	Thank you. This actually shows that we can be free in our choices. For example, the transposition of the regulation of the same au pairs, i.e. babysitters and domestic workers, is in my opinion positive, precisely in the sense that it facilitates the movement of young people internationally and creates additional opportunities for them to become acquainted with Estonia. I don't see any negatives here. Rather, it is a good thing that Estonia is open so that young aliens would like to learn here and create added value for either their own country or the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U121	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! One issue is the costs of implementing the law. I read here that it is necessary to develop both the USIS and the visa register. And it has also been said here that you would need an additional EUR 35000 in your budget for this, but at the same time you will specify that this amount may also change ♪ it will become clear after the development order has been drawn up. However, if I look at the fact that the law will already enter into force on 23 May of this year, the question will inevitably arise as to whether we will be able to complete these developments in time. Recently, we have quite a few examples that development work will not be completed by the time needed. There's this little contradiction inside.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U123	Thank you. There's really no contradiction. Both of the things that you mentioned in the same visa register and in the UUSIS are there. We are talking about increasing their volume. The increase in volume will also depend on how many people will use the same so-called Student Directive. The resulting volumes. We have now estimated that this amount could be up to EUR 35000, precisely because the UUSIS, which has lived some time, needs to be updated. This was demonstrated by the latest ID-card crisis. Nevertheless, this system is being developed. But I want to say that these volumes depend primarily on the number of people who will take advantage of the new opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U124	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U125	Thank you. We know that au pairs, i.e. babysitters-home helpers, can be accepted from the European Union, the United States, Canada, Japan and elsewhere without any restrictions whatsoever. There's more than a billion people down here. Why should we start receiving them now from third countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U126	Thank you. As you know, our labour market and Estonia at all are not only interested in the United States or Japan. There is quite a lot of this interest in Ukraine, where young people come to Estonia, with the first interest in how to learn further here, getting a European education. This is one example. But what I want to say to you is that the population of all these countries is not completely free of restrictions. There are some time limits. However, this regulation is generally directed, as you have also noted, at third countries, because there is a very high interest in Estonia, for example, in the same Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia. It is here that they want to look around the world as the first step.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U127	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U128	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I understand from your answer that we have a really big problem with the provision of childcare in the labour market. Do you have the bill, the statistics, what is the current demand for babysitters? And for some reason, can Estonia's students in Estonia not meet this need alongside the school? What could be the prognosis of how many young people per year, for example, from Ukraine, would like us to become au pair after this legislative amendment, or babysitting? However, I assume that the amendment is based on some analyses and assessments. Why don't you enlighten us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U129	Thank you. Let's take a look at this au pair thing. But I'd rather call him a babysitter-home maid, especially on English Day. We even argued in our house how to pronounce this au pair better. But what I'm trying to say is that the purpose of this legislative amendment is to create an opportunity, not to fill the labour gap. Young people in Estonia have also been interested in many countries over the years. Australia is very popular among Estonians. And if, for example, a young Ukrainian youth is interested in our region and discovers that in Estonia he can only do this work illegally, then it will give him the most positive picture of our home country. It's creating an opportunity, it's not filling a gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U130	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This bill contains an interesting concept of a 'weaning contract'. Could you please explain what this means? Which authorities must take this new regulation into account and how?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U132	'Request agreement' is a general term. The essence is that one party takes on certain obligations, takes on certain responsibilities, for example, that a person has an activity and, of course, a place of residence. This contract may also be concluded between universities, so one university invites a lecturer from another university and thereby assumes certain responsibilities. This is the basis for people to move between institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U133	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Questions about the baby-sitter-housekeeper prompt me to ask such a question. Possible babysitters come from third countries, and they can't just come here because they want to look for a job in this market? Does this, however, require some kind of preliminary agreement with a family who wants a nanny from a third country to enable their children to learn the language of another country and teach the Estonian language to the nanny?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U135	Thank you for your question. You're on the right track. Just like the young Estonians who have gone abroad to do the same job, he first seeks a host family and when he has reached an agreement on how his life will be there, he will travel there. The bill also shows that it certainly is not possible for me to just go there and think about what I'm going to do now. Previous arrangements must be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U136	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U137	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You said it was an opportunity. But I'm asking you, how great is this opportunity going to be? If we now have a maximum of 34 researchers from third countries, 1300 students, three volunteers and zero babysitters, how big could these numbers be if, for example, Vietnamese, Ukrainian and Syrian students, scientists and babysitters could come for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U138	Thank you. I hear you have more accurate information than I do: we also have babysitters and lecturers coming from Vietnam and Syria. Please share it with me, too. I'm sorry I don't have it. What I do know is that creating this possibility requires that a person comes here to perform this particular function. He has a prior agreement, and if he does not comply with it, the final point of this bill will give him the opportunity to be expelled immediately because he has not been honest with the state. As far as students and faculty are concerned, their number is known. And now we are giving them the opportunity to stay longer in the European Union in order to do their research in a broader amplage. They can move around Europe more easily. At the same time, this movement also applies exactly to the principle that if a person fails to fulfil the role he has promised to perform during this movement, I believe that such people have a minimum number of teaching staff and students, then he can be expelled.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U139	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The question of this cooperation agreement between the Centre Party and the United Russia was again raised in Question Time. We have heard from the Prime Minister that this agreement does not work, but the Prime Minister has not understood that agreements need to be denounced so that they do not exist. Your answers here make it very clear that Estonia intends to resolve its labour issues in cooperation with the CIS countries. My question is this: does the cooperation agreement with the United Russia and the trend towards adopting the labour force from the east mean that we are slowly shifting into Russia's sphere of influence and are at one point becoming a member of the CIS?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U141	Thank you. You know, by admitting my perhaps very narrow horizons, I say that such fantasy flights under the influence of a small bill are very surprising to me. I'm sure they should be analyzed. [[Laughing.]] But what I'm trying to tell you is that we're talking about the movement of young people, the learning of young people. We can't just live by the perceptions of people of this age, let's say. This bill is supported, in my opinion, by very many young people precisely because they can move, their friends can move, they can learn. And they don't think there's a treaty with Russia somewhere. They think that the world is a beautiful place, not a place where politicians pluck each other's hair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U142	Peter Ernits, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U143	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You have confirmed here that the implementation of this draft as a law does not affect regional development, the natural environment, state security or external communication. Hence, all other areas of life are concerned. What's the distinction? Why is it said that these areas are not exactly affected?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U144	That's a good question. I think that those areas that have been mentioned may be affected, others are not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U145	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U146	Thank you. Well, I'll continue to bully myself, if I may say so. You are trying to give the impression that Estonia would be isolated if this bill were not adopted; young people would not be able to move. I would like to remind you that we belong to the European Union, we have the Schengen visa space, our people have the opportunity to change universities, etc. within the framework of Erasmus. Nobody puts Estonia anywhere between the walls! We're talking about students and other young people want to move. We can move practically around the planet, and this actually applies to young people from the third world or third countries. Yesterday, by the way, there was a lot of talk in this Chamber about the fact that there is no need for overregulation. Do we need the kind of overregulation that this specific law will bring?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U147	Thank you. By the way, I was thinking about the same question when I started sending this bill to the government. It is always important to analyse whether one or the other draft does not mean overregulation. But I realized it didn't mean that. Why? Because those people who are the subject of the bill just want their position in a foreign country to be legal. Let's take a very simple thing: practice. Internships are an integral part of university studies, especially in universities of applied sciences. At the moment, when these people come to our college, they have to basically hide their internship status. A young person does work, but he cannot get paid for it, if only in an envelope. Here's an example. In fact, we give a person the opportunity to legally develop their activities. Another problem that also concerns lecturers and students. There are rules on how long a country can stay, for which reason a country can come. These are the same formal rules that we are harmonising in Europe. You indicated that we have the Schengen space, the common space of the European Union. All developing activities, including learning and teaching, must take place under the greatest possible conditions of freedom and thereby be able to compete with the movement of teachers and students in other worlds.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U148	Thank you very much, Minister, there are no more questions for you right now. The presentation of the commission is made by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U149	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Helmut Hallemaa wanted to make this report enormously, but he is on a mission in the Republic of Finland and two good things can't be done at the same time. I have a commission to represent in such cases. On Monday, 5 March, we discussed sending this draft to first reading. On the spot were Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt and, in addition, experts-experts Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, he is a person who probably does not need to be introduced to those who are familiar with the subject, Harry Kattai, adviser to the same department, and also legal advisor Kaspar Lepper and Hellika Kirt from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When Mr Madison said that the debate was lively, it does not mean that it was passionate. However, the debate was substantive and most of the questions you asked the Minister today also went through our debate. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were interested in how this law could affect the administrative burden of our Police and Border Guard Board. The answer was that it is logical that the administrative burden will be reduced if the residence permit of another country is also possible to stay in Estonia and this permit does not have to be issued separately in each Member State. We also discussed the issues of babysitters and migration in general, such as the legal possibilities of staying in Estonia for a short period of time. Perhaps it is appropriate to examine these four options here. I quote from the minutes of our committee. Ruth Annus replied that there are four ways to work in Estonia for a short time, only one of which is illegal. The first option is that an alien comes directly to Estonia to work for a short time. The second option is the free movement of services: a company from another Member State that offers a service in another Member State wins some outsourcing in Estonia and can offer it in Estonia with its employees. The third option is to have a 'legal body' of a factory or other company in a Member State that does not actually provide services in another Member State, but foreign workers are employed in a company in another Member State, even though they actually work in Estonia. And the fourth option is that a foreigner is legal in Estonia, but works here illegally. The short-term employment of a person is not registered in Estonia and its main aim is to circumvent the wage criteria. Of these four options, only the latter is illegal. So the purpose of this bill is to provide the basis for legal stay and work in Estonia in situations where it is reasonable. Indeed, this is not an attempt to solve any labour problem. There are also the representatives of the host nation in this hall, and the host nation should also have servants of their own. I'm not looking at you, Mr. Ligi. After the debate, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concluded that this draft could be discussed in this Chamber today and proposed that the first reading be concluded. The members of the Riigikogu were Marko Pomerants, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Kalle Laanet, Mart Nutt, Rein Randver and Tiit Terik, against Jaak Madison. We also propose that the deadline for amendments should be ten working days, as usual, when the first reading is closed. The deadline is therefore 28 March at 5.15 p.m. We'll be waiting for them by then. That's it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U150	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U151	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I stayed here to reflect on the term "grandfather-house helper." One of his tasks is cooking. Can this person also work at a family company that is a recipient of food? Or another option: the host family has a company that deals with catering, and the dishes needed for catering are prepared under domestic conditions. Does the law say anything about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U152	Thanks! The very logical and law-abiding answer would be that this person should have received a work permit here. We discussed whether, for example, the same babysitter or domestic helper, who by law can work up to 25 hours a week, could do any additional work. Indeed, no one is going to read those lessons that maybe the 26th hour came somehow. But if, for example, it is a musician who finds his bandmates and goes to a cultural institution tonight and gets paid for it, then the Estonian state should not be furious about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U153	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Question: what kind of joke did you have with this host? We didn't understand that very well. And if we didn't get it, then the ghost knows who's ever gonna read this verbogram here could be some kind of misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U155	Yeah, thanks! The concept of the host nation is followed by the people of the EKRE group in the back of this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U156	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U157	I also had a question about the fishing muffler in another case, when you said that the Estonian state should not be furious. Please open this thing up! I am unfortunately not familiar with this bill enough to catch such hints, but I am very interested in whether there is, I don't know, a problem with the registration of employees or the payment of taxes. What are you implying?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U158	Thanks! I'd be happy to answer your question. We are talking about § 1061 of the Aliens Act Amendment Act, which regulates the activity of baby-sitter-home helper in Estonia. Its third paragraph states that the number of child-sitter-housekeepers' duties must not exceed 25 hours per week and that one day per week must be free of obligations. There is also talk about what a maid could do. Being a domestic worker may mean that he or she is dependent on the family, he or she receives allowance, etc., but there is no legal contract between them within the meaning of the Estonian contract of employment. The question was, could he make any extra profits? The answer is that if such temporary sources of additional income are one-off, the Estonian state will not keep track of it or monitor it. But when it comes to a clear employment relationship in a company that Tarmo Kruusimäe asked about, it is logical that there must be a work permit and the criteria for pay must be taken into account. In the case of childcare services, the exception is that during the period of residence in our country, she does not have to pay her average salary in Estonia. They are such a separate group of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U159	Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U160	Thank you. I am still interested in the tax side, which, of course, is also a question of fair competition. According to this description, it appears to be a labour force. Is it really the case that if such labour is taken from Estonia, you must register and pay taxes, but if a person comes from abroad, you will be free of this obligation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U161	Thanks! I will then come back to the legal bases for staying in Estonia. So far, the legal possibility of working as a babysitter in Estonia was that, depending on the time, short-term work had to be registered. It's one of the possible legal bases. And then they pay the salary based on the salary criteria we have in the Aliens Act. If au pairs are also introduced when the directive is transposed, this is a separate basis, which does not require the average salary of Estonia to be paid for 25 hours a week at most. That's the kind of special group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U162	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a question about the deadline for transposition of this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U164	Thanks! The draft law has been written on 23 May 2018 on the date of entry into force of the law, and I think it will be possible to process this bill here by then. But the President is also able to make his own decisions and, if it is a constitutional situation, to declare this bill as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U165	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U166	You've touched on a number of issues here, the possibility of someone working at someone's home restaurant and doing a band tonight and earning it. I'm gonna ask you this. The additional opportunities are excellent, but the potential risks have probably also been assessed. I have not read out of the draft whether there are any risks involved in transposing this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U167	Thanks! I call on you to be calm in this sense, as it has been said, that there are a billion people who are now able to come to Estonia. In general, these potential visitors are as mindful of our country as our babysitters who go to other countries to do this job. Of course, there are any exceptions, but the prerequisite for this job is that there is an agreement with the host family, which assumes that a person is welcome. And in two cases, either the nanny finds herself in a situation where her expectations do not correspond to what she expected from the family, or vice versa, the family does not consider that this is a situation that meets her expectations When we talk about learning, we know a few examples that a person may have some sort of additional interest, which is not about making a band, but about getting information about our country. In that case, I will continue to assume that our defence police will be up to their rank and will eliminate such opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U168	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions for you. I will open a debate on the general principles of this bill in the form of negotiations. Please, Jaak Madison of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U169	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, If Mr Pomerants said that he should ask EKRE what the host nation means to know what we are doing, then really, we know that, but IRL does not know and never did. And Mr Pomerants, with his answers, proved this very well. There was indeed a lively debate on this draft last week in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as I have already said. And it was also a meaningful debate, I fully agree with that. However, because the debate was meaningful, the fact that the draft is simply poor became increasingly clear. That's bad for a lot of reasons. Firstly, this directive will be transposed one to one, without any unconditional or exception. In the European Union today, there are several countries that have only partially transposed this directive and, for example, have deleted the same au pairs, or admission of domestic babysitters in our own language, under the Aliens Act. We'll take it from one to one. It is completely unclear what its purpose is. Is it really our main concern that young people from Ukraine can come here as babysitters, or are we still following what the Aliens Act should allow in our interests? There are currently 14 exceptions in the Aliens Act that allow you to come to Estonia. These derogations do not go under the immigration quota. Most of these exceptions come from European Union law, i.e. directives or regulations. Now we want to introduce new conditions in this law, i.e. we will extend the spectrum on which it is possible to come to Estonia without taking the immigration quota into account. The current quota of about 1 000 people per year is completely meaningless, because we have 5 000-7000 people from the so-called great CIS countries, whom the Minister has also warmly promoted here. They're coming anyway. And be concerned about the millions of young people in Ukraine that they will otherwise not be able to come to Estonia in a simple way, you know, that is not our concern. I'm not worried about that. There are tens of millions of young people in the world who would like to come to the European Union tomorrow, and certainly some of them would be willing to come to Estonia, because it is also part of the European Union and a slightly better place than their home country, Ukraine, Moldova or any other third country. But that is not our goal. The second problem is precisely overregulation. Last day, we discussed a draft anthem law. There were critics and smiling teeth among those currently sitting in this very hall: you regulate, you order to sit, step, reveal your head. Do we have a point? Now, however, a directive has come up on the table, which we are over-regulating by transposing, amending the Aliens Act, but no one complains of being politely said. Nobody! In everyone's opinion, this is a perfectly normal thing, and there is no problem. Double morale and duality! This is not acceptable to us. It is acceptable for us to amend the Aliens Act if it is in our interests if we really need to do so, if there really is a huge need to hire babysitters and we no longer have young people who would like to be babysitters or domestic workers, and really there is a need to solve a mad problem. If it is based on our needs and is in harmony with our interests, then fine. But the fact that one is being taken over by one of one of the European Union's directives and announced here on the remote, with a joyful glow, is that it is a nice thing, well, it is not a great thing. We don't like it. And that is what I said at the committee meeting. I was the only one who had the sense to say that it was not in our interest, and I am voting against it. So our group proposes not to support the draft at first reading, to send this directive back to the European Commission and to say that it is not right for us. Change it or we won't take over. Very simple! And, of course, this vote also shows what the host nation means. Most groups, especially those on the right side of me, do not understand this very well. But we forgive them, there's still a year left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U170	On behalf of the Group of the Tarmo Kruusimäe Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U171	Good Chairman! Good ambassadors! Everyone talks about their own experiences. I've been working as a chef at an Indian restaurant. I've seen how the head of a private limited company has recruited so-called catering professionals, whom I've driven away smartly because they didn't know the difference between quite a lot of things that are very important in the kitchen. So they weren't catering specialists, but we had students at EBS and they already had an ID card. Several criteria were met. In a private interview with the representatives of these different cultures, a surprise-surprise, I got a pretty good talk with them! They said that it was necessary to pay for getting to Estonia. Now I just want to talk about one moment. It is obvious that if a family of foreigners who, in accordance with this law, have a longer residence permit in Estonia takes on an assistant, it is not as we imagine Maie will say to Valdur: 'Valdur, what if we called ourselves a babysitter from Burma? Think of how interesting he will be to introduce us to Burmese food and our child, the baby, will learn about Burma's culture and history. ' But that's the thing: the Indian family that resides here wants a baby-sitter-home helper from India. In India, we know there's still a box system. And if we talk nicely about the 25 hours he has to work a week, then the student who is studying at an Estonian university where he can enter under lighter conditions has a workload of 25 hours a day, because he cannot escape the caste system in any way. I therefore think that the author of the draft could still think this through and conclude that we would rather not favour trafficking in human beings. In the Republic of Estonia, every person has the right to be rewarded for the work he has done. We have heard of cases where the maid has come from another country, but is in exactly the same environment as before, and the neighbors may say that this is not the maid, but rather he is more like a slave. That's my problem. These citizens have easy ways of coming here, it is absolutely clear. Now, when you play with a little thought, I've seen that it's exactly nine months left to complete the research. And when we think about the old-fashioned reproduction of people, so after nine months we see an achievement, will this research be taken home, or will it actually stay here? I hope that all the listeners understood that this is simply an arbitrary interpretation: 270 days, or nine months, and you can call it research. I want to say that those domestic workers who come here need to know that they have a legal basis for refusing if they are simply forced to do more work than they are supposed to. But what Marko said about making a band is nothing today. It's not like we're state-owned, it's not youth work. It is the weak decision of the people themselves not to inject themselves into the eye of the poppy, but to go to the rehearsal room of the band and to make a band for their own money, which the Estonian state does not need for 100 years. But we can enjoy the fruits of it, and we are eager to live with them when they bring us beautiful results from a singing contest somewhere. Then we feel that you see how well ours sang in spite of us. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U172	There are no more words, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft law, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed to reject the draft law amending the Aliens Act at first reading. They have a perfectly legitimate right to make such a proposal. We will begin the preparation of the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft law amending the Aliens Act at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. Seven MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 44 against and 6 abstentions. The proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 590 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U173	First reading of the draft law amending the Consular Act and the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Foreign Minister Sven Mikser, please report to the microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the consular and identity documents law before you at first reading has two aims. Firstly, to transpose the European Union Directive on the consular protection of unrepresented citizens in third countries. In essence, this means that if, for example, an Estonian citizen needs help in a third country where we do not have a representative office, he or she can contact the embassy of any Member State of the European Union for consular protection. In essence, such a law exists in European Union law for quite some time, but the directive sets out how it can work even better in practice. The implementation of this directive will make the consular assistance provided to the Estonian citizen by other countries of the European Union smoother, while the transposition of this directive will not change the current situation for people living in Estonia with an alien passport. The second draft aims to extend the scope of services provided in embassies. In particular, we would like to start offering all e-cards in embassies, including ID-cards, digital ID-cards and e-resident cards. This means that it will also be possible for the embassy to restore the validity of the certificates by becoming the law of this bill, or to issue new codes if necessary, the "PIN-ümbrik." At the moment, the only solution is to apply for a new card or to visit Estonia for this service if such a need arises. The impact of a possible law is therefore very positive, as the availability of services improves considerably. This service will be provided to all groups to whom such cards are issued, including residence card holders and e-residents. I would also point out that the law should enter into force no later than 1 May 2018 in order not to exceed the deadline under the Directive. And the speedy enforcement of the law is also necessary in order to be able to start providing this after-service option for e-cards as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U175	Krista Aru opens the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. You mentioned the positive side of this bill: to whom and what it is good for. Can you also point out some questionable, risky, problematic areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U177	To be honest, I do not see any aspect of Estonia's life that will become worse when this bill becomes a law. I think this is a perfectly sensible law that broadens people's opportunities and rights. There is certainly real demand from our citizens for these services, both for the consular assistance provided by the European Union's representations and for the after-service of certificates. So I can't point out any negative aspects of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U178	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U179	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I read here that unrepresented citizens of a Member State of the European Union receive consular assistance from the Estonian diplomatic mission. My question is this: name some countries where there is an Estonian consular office, but there are no other countries of the European Union, so you must contact the Estonian embassy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U180	Thank you. I will certainly not be able to provide you with an exhaustive list of all the foreign representations of all the Member States of the European Union. And I am more than convinced that there is no capital in the world where the Estonian embassy would be the only embassy in the European Union. However, there are certainly individual countries of the European Union that do not have their own representation in one of those capitals or cities where Estonia has an embassy or a consular mission. And in this case, these citizens will have the opportunity to go to Estonia or to another European Union country's diplomatic mission to receive consular protection if they are "unrepresented citizens," i.e. they do not have a representative office in their country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U181	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U182	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! When I heard about all these e-services here, I was kicked out with a reflex like this, which the old folks say is that the lice is still thinking about the sauna. Would it not be possible to offer e-cigarette services in India and Thailand, for example? It is known that there is a state monopoly on tobacco sales and that e-smokers are prohibited.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U183	Thank you. This area is certainly not among the areas of work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and especially not among the priority areas. E-cigarettes aren't handling this bill in any way. If you think it's necessary, I suggest you find other people in this hall to take this initiative in the form of some other bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U184	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U185	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I am surprised to read that the legal quality of this draft explanatory memorandum has been verified by three officials. I have not seen such a comment before on the drafts. Respect that so many officials are paying attention to such a thing! But it has been said here, as I understand it, that the requirement to register a stay away from Estonia is still inside the consular law. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U186	Excuse me, could you elaborate on which paragraph you read such a requirement?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U187	It is stated here that § 471 (2) of the consular code still includes the requirement to register a stay away from Estonia. Are you gonna take it out now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U188	In paragraph 471 (2) the words 'who has registered his stay away from Estonia and' are deleted. Yes, this particular part of the sentence is indeed taken out of the law in force when the bill is approved. I think that was your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U189	Dear Minister, No more questions for you right now. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U190	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft for the first time on 12 February when we were preparing for the first reading. Foreign Minister Sven Mikser also gave the Commission a fairly comprehensive overview of the content of the draft, presenting its objectives. As this draft concerns, among other things, the follow-up of e-residents in our foreign representations, the Commission has developed a wider interest in the whole issue of e-residency. So on 5 March, we not only dealt narrowly with this specific draft, but more broadly with the issue of e-residency. To a large extent, the e-residency programme has so far been a beautiful success. And the goal is no longer just an increase in the number of e-residents, but an increase in the number of e-residents creating businesses and generating revenue for our economy. This year, 2018, a target of 2500 companies has been set up. Kaspar Korjus, project manager of e-residency, told us in the Commission that this objective is being pursued at a fairly good pace. The Commission was asked which countries our e-residency programme is most popular in. To name countries outside the European Union, Ukraine, Turkey and India have had the greatest interest, but also increasingly in South Korea. South Korea is the country where a pilot project of its kind was launched at the beginning of this year. The e-residency programme has so far been highly dependent on the location of Estonian foreign representations, as the fingerprints needed to receive the card must be provided either to a representative of the PBGB or to a representative of a foreign mission. But in the framework of the South Korea pilot project, a private company with whom a contract has been made takes fingerprints and issues a card. If this project is to be successful, then it is planned to open up such representations in more countries, and with this it will certainly push further momentum for our e-residency project. Now that e-residency allows companies to be run within the European Union at lower administrative costs, there are people interested not only from outside the European Union, but also from other EU Member States, mostly Finland, Germany, Italy and France, but also from Britain, probably more and more under the influence of Brexit. In addition to all this positive, we spoke in the Committee on Foreign Affairs about the problems and challenges associated with the e-residency programme project. In recent times, the most important topic has certainly been that it is very difficult for non-residents, who are treated as all e-residents, if not impossible to open bank accounts in Estonia. Understandably, no one disputes that strict and very specific measures must be in place to prevent money laundering, but no one disputes that we need a project of international entrepreneurship, foreign investment and also e-residency, which helps to bring enterprising people to Estonia, as well as customers to businesses. This particular issue is somewhat out of the administration of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but we can certainly acknowledge and raise it, so that the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs will continue to address this problem, which in any case needs to be resolved. During the debate on a specific draft, the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted the following procedural decisions by consensus: We proposed that the draft be first read on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu and that the first reading be closed. The proposal is to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on Monday 19 March. The Commission's consensual decision was also that the committee's report is made by the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs, who is still before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U191	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Kersti Sarapuu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It was about e-residents. Is it possible to state the reasons why it takes so long to open an account?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U193	Thank you. The reasons, however, are largely in the rules that apply in Estonia. And this problem of opening accounts not only concerns e-residents, but foreign investors in general. This question was also raised in the Commission and it was explained that banks will have a duty of due diligence to establish a customer relationship and maintain a later relationship, which they will naturally have to fulfil. So very strict rules have caused it. The whole problem has come to the top of the agenda just recently, and we must certainly not overlook it. Once again, it is not just about e-residency, but about the wider economic environment and foreign investment, without which the Estonian economy is very difficult to grow and succeed. But a specific bill doesn't change those rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U194	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U195	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I understand that the specific draft does not concern these rules, but since this has already been the case, does the Committee on Foreign Affairs or the Government, as you know, intend to deal with this problem? This has also been very much reflected in the media and in the financial community. Let's just say there's a problem coming up about whether our economic environment is open, whether investors would have a reason to come here, or whether the rules are already on the other side, becoming too strict. Do you know any plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U196	Thank you. This issue also arose in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As I said at the end of my presentation, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs can do so by drawing attention to this issue, by keeping it in focus. The Committee on Economic Affairs, of which you are a member, as well as the Committee on Monetary and Legal Affairs, are the committees that will have to deal with this issue very seriously in the near future. I hope and believe that the Members who are members of these committees will understand the seriousness of this, and that is what our current government understands. In any case, Parliament cannot overlook the problems that have arisen.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U197	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 584. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 19 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U198	Eighth item: First reading of the draft measure law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, please report to the microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U199	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft measure law I have before you has been prepared for a very long time and will replace the measuring law that has been in force since 2004. The development of the new law was due to the need to update and simplify the law, as well as to make the requirements of the law more flexible so as to take account of modern rapid technological developments. As a matter of time, the current measurement law was developed with a view, in particular, to transposing European Union directives. Since 2004, life has moved on, some of the provisions of the current law can be simplified today, and there is also the possibility of reducing overlaps with other provisions of the law, such as the Law on Law Enforcement and Conformity of Product. Technology has developed rapidly and new types of measuring equipment have become more widespread, such as GPS devices, the use of which has been restricted by the current law. Through feedback, we have identified a number of options for simplifying and making the law more flexible without any loss of reliability of measurements. Not all the changes can be read here, because this is a whole new text, but I will focus on the most important changes. Compared to the existing law, the application of traceability requirements for measurement results will become more flexible and tailored to the needs of the sector. In particular, the change concerns measurements by supervisory authorities, as well as measurements to determine environmental charges. Examples are measurements of the size of the areas. The current measurement law defines the measurements for which traceability of the measurement results must be demonstrated. From now on, the requirement to demonstrate traceability will apply when required by sectoral legislation. Already, there is such a requirement in nine different laws. For example, traceability is required when measuring the quantities of excise and customs goods, in traffic monitoring, in adapting taximeters, in checking compliance with the requirements for alcohol, recording equipment and quality of road construction. Compared to today, measurements can be carried out in each area in accordance with the nature and need of measurements in a specific area. For example, for simpler measurements, such as weighing, the use of a controlled measuring instrument is sufficient. Measurements with more complex and higher effects, such as the measurement of the quantity of fuel for the purpose of calculating excise duty, shall include, in addition to the measuring instrument checked, an assessment of the measurement methodology and measuring skills. According to technological developments, the purpose of the draft is to enable competent surveyors to use measuring equipment which cannot be verified or monitored on a metrological basis. For example, GPS equipment, 3D modelling and drone use. In such a case, the competent meter shall use the appropriate methodology and use the procedures set out by the manufacturer in an international standard, legislation or other normative document to check the performance of the device. Within the framework of the reduction of the administrative burden on operators, i.e. the zero bureaucracy project, the volume of the documentation for checking the quantity of products or prepackages of the same quantity is reduced, for example, by a prepackage of each one-kilogram of sugar per package of packagings. The cost savings for the verification of measuring instruments will also be achieved by adding a new type of re-assessment and the requirement for double accreditation of verification laboratories will be abolished. Compared to the current measurement law, which requires all packers and importers to have and maintain documentation on checking the filling capacity of prepackages for two years, possession of the documentation with the draft is made mandatory only for certified prepackage operators wishing to comply with requirements that are not mandatory in the European Union for faster cross-border movement of goods. This reduces their administrative burden by halving the period of mandatory retention of documents, i.e. one year. The reason for the amendment was that the documentation of the verification of the quantity of filling does not in itself guarantee the correct amount of filling of the prepackage. It is important to use a controlled measuring instrument to ensure the correct amount of filling in the product. Prepacking companies include an estimated 500 packers of food and industrial goods, who will be able to decide for themselves how many documents it is appropriate to have to check the quantity of packaged products. The inclusion of the type of statistical re-assessment of measuring instruments in the Measurement Act gives economic operators the possibility to significantly reduce the costs of verification. Enabling statistical verification means that not all measuring instruments are checked anymore, but a representative sample is made of measuring instruments which are checked. The use of statistical verification is possible and appropriate for a large number of measuring instruments of the same type and use under the same environmental conditions. These may include electric meters, heat meters or water meters. For example, the cost of checking all recently installed remotely listed electricity meters for companies would be estimated at 15 million for current prices, but after the entry into force of the law, the cost per verification period will be EUR 200000 to an undertaking, i.e. 600000, depending on the size of the sets. A 100% check shall be carried out following the statistical re-assessment. Verification laboratories shall abolish the requirement of double accreditation. Verification laboratories do not need to have two accreditations in the future, one is enough. This double accreditation is a burden for the verification laboratories, and the competence of the laboratory does not increase in order to meet the requirements. The amendment does not have a major impact, as there are 16 verification laboratories in Estonia, but it removes the unreasonable requirement from the law. In order to better address consumer complaints, the number of applicants for emergency response has been increased. In the event of doubt as to the accuracy of the reading of a measuring instrument, an emergency verification may be required not only by the supervisory authorities and the holder of the measuring instrument but also by a person associated with the measuring instrument to whom an invoice or a requirement is submitted on the basis of the indication of the measuring instrument. In the case of consumer meters, this can be done by a domestic or commercial customer, or in the case of measuring instruments used in consumer transactions by the consumer. So these measuring instruments are store scales and fuel tanks. At present, the consumer has to rely on the reasonableness of the system operator or any other party to the transaction to resolve complaints or to contact the supervisory authority, which will carry out the procedure and, if necessary, also require an emergency response. From now on, consumers will be able to resolve the dispute faster and easier if the instrument is suspected, and for both parties to the transaction, the outcome of the exceptional dispute resolution will be resolved as an assessment of compliance with the requirements of the legislation. The draft also includes amendments to the law on state fees, environmental charges, land, traffic and police and border guards relating to changes to the traceability requirement of measurement results in the Measuring Act. Both the current measurement law and the current draft are related to requirements arising from European Union directives, including the Directive on the transition to summer time. As you know, discussions have been launched at European Union level on the directive on the transition to summer time. The draft is planned to enter into force as a law on 1 January 2019. Once again, this is a complete text prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U200	Dear Minister, There are infinitely few questions about the law of measurement. But thank you. The presentation of the commission is made by Kristen Michal, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U201	Good manager! Dear Minister, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu convened and discussed this bill on Monday, 5 March. As we have already seen from the presentation of the Minister, the bill has been made long and heartily. The Minister did not present it less convincingly in the Commission and was supported by an expert. As a result of all this debate, the following proposals were made: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, 28 March at 17.00. All these decisions were consensual, everyone agreed with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U202	Question from Peter Ernitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Can you tell me which country standards exist in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U204	Thank you. I don't have all the text here, but we'll look together later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U205	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. I will open negotiations if the representatives of the political groups wish to do so. It's not there. The commission's proposal, as you have heard, is to finish the first reading of draft 566. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5 p.m. on 28 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U206	Ninth item: First reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and the Energy Economy Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U207	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft Act amending the Electricity Market Act and the Energy Economy Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The last major change in the Estonian electricity market took place in 2013 when the Estonian electricity market opened to all consumers. The introduction of open market mechanisms has revealed the need to clarify legislation. In our dealings with market participants, we have identified a number of ways of simplifying and making the law more flexible without adversely affecting the functioning of the electricity market. So I am here before you with a bill that we want to update the electricity market law due to the needs of practice and, at the same time, to alleviate, even abolish some of the administrative restrictions in the electricity market that have been in place so far. The changes made to achieve the objective are a number of pages. These and their implications are well written in the explanatory memorandum of the draft. I'll stop at the most important changes. Firstly, with this bill, we propose to relax the criteria for establishing a direct line between the power plant and the consumer. The current law also allows the establishment of a direct line, but so far the direct line can only be built on the same or adjacent property as the producer. The changes requested provide a flexible way of establishing a direct line of up to six kilometres and will no longer have to be in a neighbouring block. This will encourage investment in energy-intensive production. Direct electricity consumption may be more economically advantageous than the current price of the network service. As a result, a number of companies and potential investors have been interested in the possibility of setting it up. If a new point of consumption is connected to a direct line, this will not change anything for existing consumers, as the production or production generated so far has not helped to pay network charges anyway. If all large consumers who already operate and have technical possibilities to set up a direct line do so, this would not have a significant impact on the final price of electricity for existing consumers, taking into account the six-kilometre radius. This effect would remain within 1%. The likelihood that all existing large consumers will take advantage of this option is low, as the costs of establishing a direct line need to be weighed against the network service. The amendment contributes to the implementation of point 2.6 of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic. It provides for a competitive tax and regulatory environment for industrial and service sectors with high growth potential in the Estonian economy. According to the draft, a number of authorisation requirements will be waived and some requirements will be substantially relaxed. For example, a licence for the sale of electricity will be abolished and a licence for the production of electricity will be waived for up to 200 kilowatts of production equipment. In addition, the authorisation requirement is waived for direct lines connected to a production unit of up to 500 kilovolts. As a result of the changes, the administrative burden for companies and the Competition Board will be reduced and the operation of the electricity market will be facilitated. The obligations of network owners in respect of those networks which are not authorised network operators shall be specified. Until now, the electricity market law has imposed an obligation on the owner of the network to put his network into service by a licensed network operator, but the costs of providing the network are left to be settled by agreement between the parties. Current practice shows that agreements are very difficult and that consumers may suffer. Persons providing network services who do not have an authorisation are not subject to competition authority price regulation and are not subject to development obligations. Consumers in such networks cannot be sure of the quality of the network service as well as the cost-based price. The amendment shall specify who will cover the costs and what the obligations of the network owner and owner will be. The Act sets out more precise bases for the calculation of network charges than has been the case so far. This ensures legal certainty as well as legal clarity as to the level of network charges paid by network operators, investors and consumers. The current law does not contain detailed criteria for taking into account, for example, depreciation of fixed assets. There is also no non-networking costs, such as fines, interest payments, sponsorship expenses and donations, the ban on switching the online service price. A similar change has been made in the natural gas sector in the past as an example of this change. In addition, it will be possible to take into account in the future what has been done by the legal entities for which the State has a majority decision-making power to develop energy efficiency in order to comply with the State's energy efficiency obligation. In order to comply with the requirements of the Energy Efficiency Directive, Estonia has set an indicative energy efficiency target for the years 2014 to 2020, consisting of energy savings from consumers. Current measures will enable us to meet 97% of Estonia's overall energy efficiency commitment; these changes will contribute to the achievement of the target. One option would be for network operators to invest energy savings to 1% of the average sales revenue of the final consumer over the last three years. The draft is intended to enter into force in general terms, but the amendments relating to the relaxation and abolition of authorisation requirements should enter into force on 1 January 2019. This is briefly the content of the draft. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U208	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! Both in the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and in the group, we had a question about a specific criterion, about six kilometres. Where does that come from, exactly six kilometers? At the meeting of the Economic Commission, the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs said that this length was determined on the basis of actual requests. But the interesting nuance is that if the proposal of the parties concerned was five kilometers, it was finally reached six kilometres. How many companies are planning to establish a direct line in the light of this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U210	In particular, the amendment sought to alleviate the requirement for the establishment of a very rigid direct line that it could be limited to a secondary parcel only. Current generation capacities were analysed: producers that can be at one end of the direct line and potential industrial areas around them. As a result of the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it was decided to come up with a direct line of up to six kilometres to offer these opportunities to future consumers. There was also an option that would happen if we allowed longer direct lines. But it was maintained that already six kilometres is a considerable relief from the current situation and that if a certain number of kilometres, or six kilometres, is known, then you can also estimate the effects that might occur. A specific company, which is six kilometres from some power plants, is not on our table, as far as I know. So this criterion is not for one or another specific investor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U211	Thomas Väinaste.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U212	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U213	You tried it, did it work? It's working, the signal got to me. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U214	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question concerns, in part, the possibility of a direct line, which is a very good opportunity, and, on the other hand, small power plants with a capacity of 1 megawatt. In fact, we are going upside down to the 290 bill, which says the other way around that these small power plants should also be covered by less supply. Have you discussed granting them the exception that the European Commission actually allows? Or is it still reasonable to put them all in a general scheme of less bids?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U215	This solution, as you pointed out, comes from another bill. In the case of a direct line, relief shall be required for production units up to 500 Kilowatts. Different versions and volumes have, of course, been discussed, but this draft has not been included in the support scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U216	Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is this: could two or three consumers, for example, be served on the same direct line that is currently going to a single consumer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U218	Thank you for your question. The direct line is currently clearly defined by law; it is an electricity line connecting the electricity producer and one consumer. We are now beginning to expand the possibilities of using the direct line. We extend them in such a way that the direct customer does not have to be on a neighbouring plot, but may also be further away if he has concluded an agreement with the intermediate landowners and can thus establish a direct line.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U219	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U220	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This is the case with the isolated network, the example of Ruhnu and Prangli, but with the amendment of the Small Islands Act, you say that the isolated networks can still be created. Where else could they come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U221	Thank you. They can also occur in other small islands: those islands that are covered by the Small Islands Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U222	Please, Karin Tammemägi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U223	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The establishment of these direct lines creates parallel networks. Are environmental impacts analysed? In addition, there is an increase in network charges for existing small consumers. Does that benefit really pay off?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U224	The concept of a direct line is reflected in the idea that companies coming close to the electricity producer, who consider the energy input to be significant at their own costs, are worth building a direct line. The impact on small consumers should be minimal. This brings more energy consumers, who do not currently exist and who do not currently contribute to network costs in the form of network charges. However, environmental impacts are limited by the fact that a direct line can be built within a distance of up to six kilometres from the energy producer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U225	Toomas Kivimägi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, Minister! However, to some extent the sum of the network charges is likely to decrease slightly. Is it known in the absolute value of this decrease? Or I guess it's easier to answer how much it can affect the price of electricity to other consumers in percentage terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U227	In preparing this draft, the impact of mitigating the criteria for the establishment of direct lines on the final electricity price has been thoroughly assessed. You'll find it in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. Since a new consumer will be connected to the direct line, new investments will be made, my answer will be the same as Karin Tammemägi. It will be new production capacities, producers that are new consumers of electricity produced by us. And the potential impact on existing consumers is also known. If production units fulfilling all technical criteria were to make use of the possibility of establishing a direct line and to reach an agreement with the intermediate landowners that new networks would emerge over their land, this would lead to a price change of less than 1% for existing consumers. And I would point out that last year, network charges were reduced twice in significantly higher amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U228	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U229	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I'd like to make a little bit of a point. I've got a little bit of a little bit of a mix-up. If an energy producer is closer, for example a consumer three kilometres away, who could be connected to the grid to sell electricity to him, can two lines be built, or should one line still be limited? Six kilometers is the maximum distance. How is this regulation meant?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U230	One producer can build several direct lines, but the direct line connects one producer to one consumer. And three kilometers is no obstacle. One consumer may be three kilometres away and the other may be 5,9 kilometres in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U231	Minister, thank you very much. No more questions for you. The report of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu is made by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U232	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also give you an overview of what was discussed in the Commission. Some of these issues were also reflected in this Chamber today. This is then a draft 576, a draft amendment to the Electricity Market Act and the Energy Economy Organisation Act, a first reading. The Commission discussed this on 5 March. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Jaanus Uiga, expert at the Energy Department of the same Ministry, had also been invited to attend. In a few words, I will also give an overview of these issues, but, as I said, some of them were on the issues that have already been discussed here today. The speaker also asked why the maximum length of the direct lines to be built was set at six kilometres. Jaanus Uiga, an expert in the Department of Energy, replied that it was based on the input of the Economic Development Department of MKM, according to which industrial companies have been interested in direct lines of up to six kilometres. The maximum length of the direct line must be defined, as allowing very long direct lines can have a difficult foreseeable effect on the price of the network service. The construction of long lines is made difficult by the mere fact that there is a need to introduce a large number of servitudes for the use of the various plots that the new electricity line would be going through. At the meeting, the speaker noted that we have received an assessment from the Estonian Solar Power Association, where they state that the impact requested by the draft is not achievable, since, according to the draft Act amending the Second Electricity Market Act, which currently bears the number 290, the possibility of building small power plants in the vicinity of industrial areas with a direct line will be eliminated. A letter like this has come to us. Mr Uiga replied that if the question raised in this letter was to be resolved, it could be resolved by changing the second draft that was pending. This cannot be done by changing this particular draft. The speaker also pointed out that the proposal made by OÜ Team Paldiski to the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu has also been received by the committee in order to allow the draft to open a closed distribution network. The Minister explained that the purpose of this draft is to alleviate the situation of individual energy-intensive companies. They represent a very small number of all network service providers. The regulation of the direct line aims to make Estonia a more competitive country of destination for large investments. A more favourable network service price could be offered to a company with a direct line. It is more beneficial for Estonia if the electricity produced in Estonia is consumed locally rather than sold abroad on the power exchange. The inclusion of closed distribution networks in the draft would have a significant impact on the price of the network service, as Elering would lose a lot more customers in this case. Also, the closed distribution network does not comply with the definition of a direct line. Jaanus Uiga added that the admissibility of the direct line is the result of the Internal Electricity Market Directive, according to which the direct line is a line connecting the production unit to one consumer. However, a direct line may not be connected to the network. This draft solution will have the least impact on other consumers. In the case of new consumers, a closed distribution network could be used, but the entry of existing consumers into a closed distribution network would have a significant impact on other consumers. Specifically, this impact has not been assessed. Deniss Borodich argued that a number of market participants have, as was understood during the preparation of this draft, allowed the creation of a closed distribution network, and certainly many companies want it. Deniss Borodich also stated that it was not rational to establish a number of parallel direct lines to companies located close to each other. However, criteria could be established that companies that set up a closed distribution network should meet. Erki Savisaar pointed out that a direct line longer than six kilometres was not economically reasonable and so there was no reason to limit the length of the direct line at all. Why do we set up six kilometres when the entrepreneur himself realises that he does not have the smartest longer direct line to set up? Erki Savisaar also stated that it would also be worth considering allowing closed distribution networks and energy cooperatives. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs explained that, if longer direct lines were allowed, the impact of the draft could no longer be estimated as to how many large consumers would leave the core network and how it would affect network charges. And EU regulations do not only allow benefits to be granted to new energy consumers, but it was only for new ones to be allowed to do so. That can't be allowed. If you're gonna make some kind of discount, it's gonna have to extend to everyone. The regulation of energy cooperatives is under discussion in the framework of the European Commission's Clean Energy Package. Jaanus Marrandi asked how this law would affect the costs of electricity for large consumers operating in Estonia. Jaanus Uiga replied that if the electricity producer is located closer than six kilometres from a large producer, this could affect costs. There is also the possibility of building a power plant closer to a large consumer. A company connected to a direct line must also receive electricity from the grid when the power plant is in maintenance. If the power plant doesn't work, he's got to get power from somewhere. In reply to this question, Kadri Simson added that energy-intensive companies will be subject to a lower level of electricity excise duty in the future, as well as a reduction in their future gas excise duty. Efforts are being made to ensure that Estonia can sell the quantities of renewable energy statistics, which will allow for a reduction in the fees for large consumers of renewable energy in the future, for example. Tarmo Kruusimäe was interested in taking over the existing closed distribution networks. Jaanus Uiga explained that electricity distribution does not take over distribution networks that do not meet the criteria, and the resolution of deficiencies is one of the reasons why it has taken time to connect to the network in many places. Kristen Michal pointed out that the explanatory memorandum contained certain aspects of when and how depreciation of the fixed assets of the network company is included in the accounts. He asked me to explain it in more detail. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained this by adding that, according to the current regulation, it is possible to use computer software and network assets, for example, according to the Competition Authority, after the same period, despite the fact that software is a five-year investment and network assets, for example a 40-year investment. The possibilities of re-evaluation in this respect can be clarified in the draft. Kristen Michal also wanted to know what the estimated impact these accounting changes would have on consumers. Jaanus Uiga explained that in practice the price does not increase for the consumer. The aim is to harmonise accounting and regulatory accounting of assets. The same change was already introduced in 2011 in the natural gas sector. He promised the Committee on Economic Affairs to send more precise estimates than he wanted. Tarmo Kruusimäe wanted an assessment of the extent of the impact of the draft and Jaanus Uiga replied that there are currently 27 companies that are likely to use the direct line. The price of network services in Estonia is on a downward trend, and so it can be expected that the price of network services will not increase to the consumer as a result of the changes to the draft. Kadri Simson also added that the impact on the consumer tariff is about 1%, which is a small change, given that last November the charge for wholesale electricity services was reduced by 2.3%, and this year the network service fee is intended to be further reduced. Finally, Deniss Borodich also noted that the law currently allows a direct line to a neighbouring county and asked how many users of such a solution are in Estonia. The MKM representative has informed us that direct line licences have been issued under the current law slightly above 20. And then it was time for decisions. Let me be clear that all the decisions were taken by consensus, no one was against or impartial, everyone supported. And the decisions were: firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, and so I am here before you, to propose that the first reading be stopped and that the deadline for amendments be set at 17:00 on 28 March 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U233	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much. I will open negotiations for the representatives of the political groups, if that is what you want. It's not there. The commission's proposal, as you have heard, is to finish the first reading of draft 576. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5 p.m. on 28 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U234	Today's 10th item is the first reading of draft law 586 amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (reform of criminal penalties, fines resulting from EU law). Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U235	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! In fact, the reform of misdemeanours has two blocks. The first block has been introduced to you by the Minister of the Interior, and it is an honor for me to introduce the second block. To a large extent, the whole idea of this reform of misdemeanours is firstly to reduce the number of people who are registered in the criminal record. Secondly, the aim is to introduce so-called fixed fines for less dangerous offences. The third objective of this part of the reform of criminal penalties is to link the fine unit to the person responsible's income in case of more serious traffic offences. It is precisely the danger to fellow humans that has been taken as the basis. At the moment, our criminal law has such a principle that, in order to impose financial penalties, there is an income-based penalty for criminal offences which are more serious than the threat of criminal offences, there is a daily penalty for misdemeanours. The proposal is an income-based fine, similar to criminal sanctions, for minor traffic offences. These actions include: escape from the scene in the event of a traffic accident or failure to provide assistance to a person in an assisted state affected by a traffic accident, deliberate disregard of the mandatory stop signal by the driver (there have been regrettable cases when a race has started to race against the police), exceeding the speed allowed by the driver of a motor vehicle by more than 41 kilometres per hour, as well as the use of alcohol or drugs by the driver involved in a traffic accident immediately after the accident. We have had cases when the police have clearly stated, and rightly so, it will be impossible to prove later whether a person committed an offence or caused an accident while intoxicated, or if he used alcohol afterwards. Consequently, such activities must be further impeded in terms of general safety. At present, in the case of financial penalties, the legislator has established such a conceptual limit between an income-based penalty and a daily-rate penalty in terms of alcohol in the blood of 1.5 milligrams in terms of drinking difficulty. Now we do not criminalise driving in lighter drunken drinking, but the draft stipulates that if the alcohol content is between 0.5 and 1.5 per million, then the fine is also income-based, as is the case for drinks over 1.5 per million, and if the alcohol content in the blood is less than 0.5 per million, then the fine remains a daily rate. The last such offence is when the person who drives the vehicle is deprived of his right to drive. A criminal offence is known to be punishable in the event of repeated or recurrent driving without a driving right in accordance with the applicable law. The draft provides for the principle that offenders can be punished by the suspension of the right to drive. There is no such possibility in the current law. It provides for the possibility of paroleing the right to drive which has been applied as a principal or ancillary punishment. For this purpose, a person shall be granted a one-year probationary period. If he is good and avoids wrongdoing, the probation of the right to drive will not be enforced. It must be acknowledged that, as studies show, the withdrawal of driving rights in itself is one of the most important and effective penalties for traffic offences. In addition, the time limit for payment of the fine shall be extended. The reason for this is understandable: after all, most people have monthly incomes, pension or salary. If, at present, a fine is to be paid within 15 days, this period will now be extended to 45 days. Consequently, any person who lives on one-off monthly incomes and who does not have additional resources will have the opportunity to pay the fine legally. It also provides for a lighter sanction in the case of urgent procedures. In other words, if a misdemeanour protocol is immediately formalised by means of an urgent procedure, the principle of a third reduction of the fine is laid down. The interest of the state is undoubtedly procedural economics; people are being motivated to use the urgency procedure. In addition, EU law gives rise to the possibility to impose high administrative fines as a criminal offence. These concrete actions are related to data protection in May this year, the European Union's Data Protection Regulation will enter into force and financial offences will enter into force. In the same way, this is frightening because 20 million is the ceiling, but the fact is that this legislation, a directly applicable data protection regulation, has already been adopted in the European Union. So, in the legal order itself, these sanctions will start to apply from May under directly applicable European Union law. Today, too, the maximum penalty for misdemeanours has been set at EUR 400000, but none of the practitioners impose a penalty of EUR 400000 on the person crossing the road in the wrong place. The punishment is still linked to the nature of the act. Why is this whole data protection reform even needed? In order to essentially launch a European Digital Single Market, where more data will move, especially due to economic activity. The question is, why do these fines have to be so high? Of course, the impact of administrative sanctions of this type must be such that the person involved in economic activity who is affected by this influence or sanction is economically motivated to refrain from illegal activities. In a pan-European perspective, the Data Protection Regulation naturally refers to global corporations (Google, Facebook and other institutions with such economic implications). These are, in short, the main changes foreseen in the system of penalties for misdemeanours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U236	Hanno Pevkur opens the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U237	Thank you, good minister. This is certainly a fundamental legislative change. There are some positive points in this draft, such as the urgent procedure, the conditional release from criminal penalties, or the improvement of the possibility of payment in instalments. This is, in itself, an increase in flexibility. But I'm still interested in linking the fine unit to the culprit's income. What's the choice that some of the wrongs are on this list and some aren't? Do you have a statistical overview that shows that people with higher incomes are acting more dangerously? How many people are under your scheme, the perpetrators of the crime, who are affected by this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U238	Thank you. I think that these offences are generally universally accessible in a demographic environment; people can commit them. I don't think there's any big difference. White-collar crime is what is available to the wealthiest people. But it certainly does not make sense that the crimes of people with higher incomes are high-risk. No, on the contrary, it is still a matter of work. This catalogue of actions has been selected according to what is expected to be more dangerous to fellow humans. For example, if I leave a man lying on the street helplessly, having hit him with a car, drinking vodka after an accident, or running away from the police in Pirita at night with a motorcycle, it's actually important that society has agreed not to punish them as crimes. I certainly support this ultima ratio principle so that we do not criminalise the legal environment, but influence must be that which motivates people to refrain from doing so. I think that such crimes are being committed throughout society, in different income groups, as I have said in the case of drunk drivers. I don't know what else to say here, I can't tell by nationality or gender. Fortunately, we have more law-abiding women, so on the basis of gender, these differences can be introduced, but not on the basis of income levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U239	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U240	Good manager! Good minister! You are saying here that the aim is not to increase the amount of fines and increase the revenue of the state, but you have brought here a nice table that, like 10 million, even 11, plans to get together, 5 million from drunk drivers, 3 million from unauthorized drivers, etc. At the same time, for example, there is an urgent procedure, it is one third of things, there will be less punishment, it will be easier to get away with. How do you ensure that the real income of wealthier people is taken into account, the actual salary? If they say the pay is much lower, what can you do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U241	The system is quite similar and is analogous to it here, there is no need to invent any unique system, as is currently the system for imposing a financial penalty for crimes. Based on the income declared by the person in the past period, the police are able to search the individual in the Tax and Customs Board database. This will be taken as a basis. The Committee on Legal Affairs also asked how to resolve these issues, say, hidden revenues, envelope wages or other hidden items. This is not, in itself, the purpose of this amendment, because the State is trying to identify hidden incomes and incomes by means of other policies or containment activities. Revenue declared shall be taken as the basis. We expect people to behave in a legitimate way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U242	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U243	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The point of such fines is, in fact, to influence people's behaviour and to prevent any kind of violation. Do you have any example, like some other country, that an income-dependent fine has worked so as to reduce the number of misdemeanours committed, not to drive drunkenly, not to rush too much?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U244	We are looking at miscarriages in Europe. The general trend and modern logic is one that we are moving towards with this draft. This means that a stronger leverage is envisaged for high-risk activities, with a significantly lower impact in the case of less dangerous activities. It must be acknowledged that this distinction is, in fact, much more conditional in the current misdemeanour system. We want to push these extremes "more apart." The idea is, of course, to motivate people to behave legally. This is not a tax policy measure to generate revenue. We believe this, figuratively speaking, that if a person with a higher income wants to speed, it makes sense for him to speed up to 38 kilometres per hour, if he wants the fine to be one-off and not to enter the criminal record, then it makes sense to speed up 19 kilometres per hour on the Tallinn-Tartu highway. The State says that there is simply a point in avoiding certain brutality in order for this alternative to be applicable. In some countries, some of these acts are punishable by criminal law. We would like to avoid this; we do not want to criminalise further. So there's a general connection to the logic of influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U245	Hanno Pevkur, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U246	Thank you. Good minister! I very much hope that you will now correct yourself a little and say that you will not call on people to race on the Tartu highway, talking about what is reasonable speeding and what is not. But just as with the tax changes, today's coalition has clearly wanted to "motivate people to go back to the envelope wage," so does this change to motivate people to take the envelope wage in order to avoid more punishment. In one of your answers, you said that the question was a work. That's right! But the result of the act is actually the same, regardless of who does it. I still could not answer my first question as to why only certain misdemeanours are subject to income-based fines and why this is not the case for certain misdemeanours. Just explain it, please! If you are saying that it is not meant to generate income, although clearly it is, why are you making this change that you are actually once again motivating people to go back to the envelope salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U247	Thank you. No, of course I'm about to say that language wouldn't be too loose. I certainly didn't mean that any kind of speeding would make sense. Of course, any offence is unreasonable and irrational in terms of human dignity and also of the safety of fellow human beings. But what I want to say is that the general logic of this bill and the point is that certain more dangerous activities are being tackled and sanctioned more intensively than the less dangerous on the basis of evidence. Now, the issue of envelope wages. I do not share the view that the Estonian people are expected to be of such an attitude that they are not legal abiding, as if the starting point is that they are strongly tempted to leave the victim of a traffic accident in a helpless state lying on the street so that some people would like to do so. I'm gonna hit a man, leave him lying on the street, and just so it's affordable, so it can be done all the time, so it doesn't cost too much, I'm gonna try to use the envelope salary, I don't believe it. I think that there may be people with this twisted reasoning, but I'm sure they're a very narrow minority. In accordance with the same logic, a good questioner could answer that such a philosophy has also been introduced in the case of crimes, and we have not established the assumption that if financial penalties for crimes are linked to income, then we assume that the Estonian people want to commit crimes unbridledly and, in order for it to be affordable, do not legitimately declare their incomes. Non-declarations of income are, of course, unacceptable, but these motivations why this is being done, I believe, are primarily economic in nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U248	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U249	Good manager! Good minister! You say that you will soon also come up with the principle that financial crimes should take into account income. But that's my question. If the law comes into force on 1 February next year, but somewhere in October-November, it turns out that the plan to get 10 million fine money into the state budget has not been completed, will the police be ordered to get 5 million from drunken drivers and 3 million from unauthorized drivers? So are the police going to the streets intensively to complete the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U250	No, there's no such plan. This information, which has financial implications or which is expected to have a statistically or demographic impact, has been brought to the attention of the legislator. But surely, national criminal policy is not based on so-called income accounting or standards, whether it is sanctioning crimes or misdemeanours. We have a number of financial legislation that does indeed provide for high ceilings for financial sanctions. But above all, they relate to the professional activities of legal persons: securities fraud, insider dealing and the like. They are not so much incomes, i.e. profits for companies, they are not taken into account on the basis of this proportion, but, in fact, in the European Union, the principle that legal persons are based on the percentage of net or total turnover.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U251	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U252	Thank you. Finland also has a system of income-based fines. According to the press, the fines for speeding have reached almost 300,000 euros, the same 20 kilometers per hour. This has probably led to envelope salaries there too (but we will certainly be able to get) as has been said here, but also to the fact that the rich have started to hire drivers who will then be speeded but whose wages are small, and will gladly be paid a fine on this small salary. So it still doesn't solve the situation. But I want to ask you, is it really the violation of the person who gets paid more than the violation of the lesser wager? They do the exact same thing, but one of them gets punished a lot harder. How does that work with justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U253	These are principles agreed upon in society. If a person travels with an alcoholic strength of 1,51 per cent, the monetary penalty is income-based; the legislator has based it on a daily rate if there is 1.49 per cent in the blood. By this logic, people could be pharmacists, because if they have the unbridled temptation to drive drunk, they would measure that the result would be within that range, or they could hire sofas. But according to our conventional logic, 0.5 to 1.5% is not criminalised, but the fine is income-based. It is, of course, one unit; the actions cannot be weighed differently. I'm sure the person responsible and the circumstances will be taken into account when punishing a crime, but it's still one unit, and there's no way to think about it differently. The impact of financial penalties, the preventive effect of sanctions imposed to prevent people from doing so, is undoubtedly linked to a person's income. As I said, in the European Union, administrative sanctions in the financial field are not measured by a single line between Microsoft and the Estonian bakery, but on the basis of a percentage of turnover. I think that's a rational attitude. But I want to say once again that speeding up to 20 kilometers per hour here we are moving in the other direction with our reform of misdemeanours. It shall not be entered in the criminal record and shall be subject to an automatic penalty, the corresponding unit multiplied by the number of kilometres in which the speed was exceeded.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U254	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U255	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Each of these draft laws has a speck of idealism. I think there is an idealistic hope in this draft too that income-based fines will, however, reduce traffic offences. In 2016, for example, there were statistics that 3009 cases of drunken drivers were captured in 0.5 to 1.49 per ml. Can you make a prediction or a prediction of how this law will have worked after two years, whether it will decrease, remain the same, or increase? That, of course, depends on the work of the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U256	Yeah, of course, one thing is the number of hits, but the other thing is violations of general criminality. I think that the numbers we have today must still be treated as such that they do not satisfy us in terms of the level of security of our society. We're trying to make it look like a cute thing like this: I'm driving a one-promillion drinker on the road to Tartu, and if I have a higher income, I'm going to get this one court. How, then, does it come to be dear to me in terms of financial punishment? In this sense, it is very different from many other offences. In American legal culture, which is more radical than our own for certain types of activities, they are still treated as crimes. What's the difference? The difference is, for example, that I can protect myself to a certain extent from theft. I'm gonna lock the door. I'm gonna set off the alarm. I can protect myself from other offences, but when this torpedo comes on the road to Tallinn, one of the promills driving, I'm actually completely defenseless, as well as the rest of the road users. I'm being rightful, but I can only hope that he's lucky and I'm lucky. We could say that we should be more forcefully sanctioned by other measures, but we have chosen a path based on the ultima ratio principle that we do not want to overcriminalise.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U257	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U258	Honourable President! Honorable Minister, excuse the evasiveness! First of all, I would like to thank you on this mother tongue day for an exceptionally witty expression that proved how a simple thing can be said in the legal language. You said that these offences are universally available in the demographic situation. That was a very nice expression. But that's it. This bill is likely to create controversy, and it has already. Has the public's view of such a principle of punishment been studied in order to link the sentence to income? Do we have any intel on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U259	In general, the studies that we have carried out, both in victim studies and in other studies, have been such that, when it comes to criminal offences, there has been no evidence of a situation which is separate from a public sense of justice, as if the income-based financial penalties for crime were considered to be contrary to public law. Have public opinion studies specifically been carried out on this draft law? The answer is no. But I would like to stress once again that when we talk about financial penalties, the basics of income are enshrined in the Penal Code for criminal offences. Financial leverage in the event of misdemeanours will be divided into three in the future. Firstly, there are automated fines, which are set at nominal amounts. They are designated for the least dangerous, the least dangerous of their perilous acts. The second group remains day-to-day. The third group will then, like the fines imposed for crimes, go on an income-based basis. I stress over these acts: speeding more than 40 kilometres per hour, drinking alcohol after an accident, driving in a 1⁄2 1⁄2 1⁄2 1⁄2 ounce and escaping from the police. If you ask what the attitudes of society are, I must admit that this is a cognitive position that has no quantitative basis, but I think that society will surely condemn more strongly than other wrongdoings, such as drinking alcohol after an accident or hitting a person and then running away.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U260	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U261	Thank you. If we look at the statistics, we see that every year the number of people who have not been able to pay the fine and who have asked to replace the fine with detention has increased. How do you predict the impact of the adoption of this law on this statistics?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U262	I think he's affecting it in a more positive direction. People's ability to meet their obligations is growing for very simple reasons. Three measures. Firstly, in the case of urgent proceedings, the penalty will be reduced by a third. Secondly, it is foreseen that the financial penalty will have to be enforced in 45 days instead of 15 days. Thirdly, when it comes to the planned activities relating to financial income, when a person has a lower income, the penalty rate does not become zero, although it cannot go negative, but it remains at the level of the daily rate unit. If a person has a higher income, this rate increases according to the coefficients and methodology. In that sense, the insolvency of these people, I think, will not occur. The right thing is that there has been an increase in the proportion of people seeking a certain type of replacement punishment. I think that these decisions have been made by those who deal with them, and there is nothing unnatural about it. I certainly do not agree with the argument that if a person is poor, it could be a legitimate basis for getting out of punishment. I don't want to favour this line of thought in any way. If it is done, then the act must be followed by influence. When a person does not have financial resources, influences are different, such as social work or arrest. But surely the reasoning cannot be that, regardless of income, the offences must be available to all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U263	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U264	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'd like a little clarification. If the driver denies another car or hits a pole in his car and then leaves the scene and if he's a richer person, does he have to pay more for what he did? Is his punishment stronger?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U265	You mean an escape from the scene in the event of an accident. If there has been a traffic accident and a person escapes, according to the general classification of misdemeanours, this requires intent, if a person has deliberately fled the scene, then the answer is that in this case, too, the fine under this bill would be related to income.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U266	Minister, there are no more questions for you right now. Liisa Oviir, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U267	The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws on 586 Tuesday, 6 March 2018. Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Liisa Oviir, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere took part in the committee meeting. There was no Külliki Hatter, Olga Ivanova and Taavi Clothes. Urmas Reinsalu, Ministerial Adviser Jan Trei, Advisers to the Department of Criminal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice Markus Kärner and Einar Hillep, Legal Adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Henry Timberg and Head of the Criminal Law and Procedure Service of the Ministry of Justice Tanel Kalmet and Assistant to the Analysis Service Andri Ahven were invited. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, presented the content and objectives of the draft, stating that the draft reformes the penalties for misdemeanours and creates the possibility of imposing administrative fines under European Union law. He pointed out the major changes foreseen in the draft. One of the major changes is that, in the case of more serious traffic offences, the fine unit is linked to the person responsible's income. So far, there has been a fixed-size financial penalty system, which means that people who have committed acts under similar circumstances will be punished with a financial penalty of the same size. Secondly, the financial penalty under the urgent procedure is intended to be reduced by a third, but the general assumption of the application of the urgent procedure is that the person himself accepts it and also renounces the possibility to lodge a statement of opposition. Thirdly, the bill allows for the punishment of road offenders by the suspension of the right to drive. Under current law, the perpetrator of a traffic offence can be punished by withdrawing the right to drive, but such punishment cannot be imposed conditionally. In the case of a probationary sentence, a person is granted a one-year probation period during which he or she has the opportunity to improve his or her conduct and to embark on a law-abiding course. The last major change is to alleviate the situation of economically disadvantaged people by extending the time limit for payment of the financial penalty and facilitating its payment in instalments. In addition, the Minister noted that the draft amends the general part of the Penal Code so as to enable the requirements laid down in European Union law to be met and to apply criminal penalties for certain infringements in specific areas (in particular the financial sector and data protection). This means that both a natural and a legal person will be able to apply a fine of up to EUR 20 million or a fine corresponding to up to three times the amount of the amount received as a result of the misdemeanour. The Minister added that the bill also eliminates some misdemeanours, such as ticketless travel on aircraft and non-payment for taxiing. A debate took place in the Commission. For example, Urve Tiidus asked whether fines of up to EUR 20 million could also be imposed in Estonia, in addition to which the Minister of Justice said that it was really possible to impose a fine of this magnitude for misuse of inside information or market manipulation, for example. Jaanus Karilaid asked to comment on the sentence of the draft explanatory memorandum: 'The maximum fine for the recipient is 2.3 times more severe than the maximum fine for the recipient of the average salary and 8.6 times more difficult than for the culprit receiving the minister's salary. " Urmas Reinsalu explained that the punishment for a crime must be such that a person refrains from committing a punishable act. This principle does not apply to minor wrongdoings. Mr Kärner explained that the calculation system had been taken over from the system used for criminal offences, but other factors, such as the number of dependants, etc., were also taken into account. For example, if a person receives EUR 500 as a net salary, his/her daily rate would be on the assumption that he/she does not have dependent or solvency-reducing loans of EUR 5.9. However, if a person receives EUR 2500 as a net salary, the daily rate may amount to EUR 35. According to Kärner, the ratio of the fine rates to the various incomes is thus more equal. We also talked about whether the conditional option of withdrawal of driving rights is still in place in some countries. The advisor of the Ministry of Justice explained that no other country has been taken as an example, but the aim of this amendment is to influence people to behave more legally. It was added that the withdrawal of the right to drive can affect the lives of many people today, and this is the punishment that drivers would most like to avoid. It is therefore possible that, as a basic penalty, a fine and an additional penalty are imposed on the withdrawal of the right to drive which is not conditionally applied. However, if the same penalty is applied to the driver once again within the period of suspension of the right to drive, those time limits shall be added. If the withdrawal of the right to drive is not applied in the event of a new infringement, only the old sentence shall be enforced. Raini Laide noted that this draft certainly made the misdemeanour procedure more difficult and asked whether additional resource needs had been taken into account. The Minister of Justice said that the work volume of the practitioners does not increase significantly, there is a need for some training and a period of getting used to. However, as regards the income-related fine, the Ministry of the Interior has negotiated with the Ministry of Justice that it will be based on automated requests in the MTA database and that the necessary IT solutions will be made, which means that there is no real need for additional time resources. The Ministry of Justice promised that in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, the software would be ready in time. On that basis, the Commission took consensual procedural decisions: it decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda today, to propose the completion of the first reading and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 28 March 2018 and to appoint Ms Oviir as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U268	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U269	Dear waitress, thank you for your excellent review. My question concerns whether or not dividend income is taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U270	We didn't specifically discuss dividends. In general, the Minister of Justice was of the opinion that income, not any other possible things, would not look at a person's property or all of it, would be taken into account in the income. However, since the dividend is part of the income, it is not just about income from wages, I assume that this should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U271	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U272	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, are you sure that dividend income counts? You have just said that an application will be made to take income data from tax databases. But what's in the IRS databases? There's declaration records, TSDs, salary records, maybe some other data. But it is generally the case that dividends received in Estonia are not declared. Now, be nice and tell us whether or not dividend income is taken into account. If dividend income is not taken into account, I ask why such a distinction is made that wage income is taken into account when imposing fines, but dividend income is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U273	Thank you. I will try to be good and say that, since this issue was not specifically discussed in the Commission, it is probably the most sensible thing to address this issue to the Ministry of Justice, who is able to give an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U274	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. We have heard the presentations, which means that we can go to the negotiations. Mr Randpere has first expressed his wish to speak on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U275	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. On the one hand, it is a little difficult to say something about this draft, because it contains many different things. It is like a one-chamber meal, where some elements are perfectly acceptable and reasonable: for example, as regards the financial penalties with a higher ceiling, which the Financial Supervision Authority has actually wanted for years, precisely in order to impose financial penalties for certain misdemeanours in the financial sector, but also in the area of data protection. On the other hand, it is absolutely necessary to criticise the part concerning the misdemeanours of income. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U276	If that's what you want, there's a chance. So three more minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U277	Thank you. In fact, the principle should be that we are dealing with the right things in legislation. We all know that not knowing the law in itself does not relieve us of responsibility, but if we create so many new laws, we constantly create new methods of calculation and punishment, even though it does not relieve us of responsibility, it does not make it easier to comply with the law and it does not reduce the number of offences. Legislation should in principle address the existing problems in society, but not legal nihilism, and simply new openings, which the Minister could not even justify in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Make these same misdemeanours an income-dependent one for what? There was no answer to that question. There is no problem in real life, a problem that can be combined with the conclusion that if the penalty were income-dependent, the misdemeanours would be reduced. We discussed this, although Liisa did not mention it, and there were also such expressions in the Commission, whether the problem is that people on low incomes cannot drive around drunk. Maybe it is! Or have ministers started drinking on a massive scale? For some reason, the explanatory memorandum to the law refers specifically to the salaries of ministers when it comes to what this new penalty rate might be. Or is there simply a desire to provoke some class rage? In that case, I am surprised, frankly, by the fact that the IRL is doing this. I wouldn't be surprised if the Communists weren't here or the Social Democrats did. But it's the IRL! Let's look at page 5 of the draft explanatory memorandum. We are always talking about ministers and minimum wage recipients. There is no such thing as the effectiveness of punishment. Has anyone at all taken into account that, for example, the unfortunate anonymous minister we are talking about here is actually most affected by the fact that when he does something, he is written long stories from one side of the page to another. It's his punishment, not that he's getting more money off of him than some dick who's gonna sneak around drunk every day. Of course, be careful with the ministers too, because last week we learned that the actual salary peak is in Tallinn City Government. The mayor and the deputy mayor are the ones who could be used as a basis for such class rage. To say that this calculation has become simple or understandable, you can't. I think it's so complicated. I read both the bill and the explanatory statement, and I suggest you all do it. In fact, this is a calculation of how to correct the daily rate, such a mathematics state examination task. Take a look and take a look! It's not so easy that you just put the numbers in the table. Here, too, the issue of dividends came up; then there is the question of alimony, dependants, children and stuff, all things. It's too complicated to justify it on an easy hand or to be understood by anyone. The problem is that there will actually be a bit of selectivity and a distinction between people: those who pay their taxes honestly and those who do not pay. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law explicitly states that it was chosen not to assess the standard of living, although it would be right if they wanted to go to the end of this road and really punish the goddamn rich people who commit wrongdoing. The Minister has also repeatedly said that only a few wrongs will be committed, the worst. Both the draft and the explanatory notes state that this is only the first step. This does not preclude that this will continue to be done in the future. This also does not preclude this plan, probably, that after some time all misdemeanours will be punishable on an income-based basis. But there's good news. Liisa mentioned in passing that no more charges would be imposed for non-payment in public transport of tickets, aircraft and taxis. You're on an aircraft without a ticket, but you can't get a ticket. Good luck! I know they're throwing rabbits out of the tram, I hope not on the plane. And there's no ticket left in the cab! It is, in itself, an interesting point of view that the only two modes of transport in Estonia, which are subject to a charge of air travel and taxiing, will no longer receive a fine. Soon we will have a nationwide transport communism. We have free public transport and you can get a ticket for free public transport. Finally, a few reflections on the mother tongue day. It's not the invention of this bill, but I discovered that there's a word like 'irregularity'. Who invented the word "unlawful content"? Fantastic! Of course, the explanatory statement is full of spelling errors. We are not going to insist, on behalf of the group, on the rejection of this draft at first reading, but I have already begun to prepare amendments in order to restore or maintain the situation, so that the penalties are not dependent on income.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U278	Mart Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U279	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm basically picking up where the previous speaker ended up. There is a clear feeling of the pre-election atmosphere and it is clear that this bill smells winds in this atmosphere. In other words, they try to please those groups who feel that there is a lack of justice in society. These are poorer people who want to see blood on the street and want to see rich people punished. Since the rich are being bled, as was done during the French Revolution, no longer well tolerated, let's not bleed, let's shoot the money. We're gonna take the money away from them, and we're gonna take the money away from them. If we make sure that they are rich in Estonian terms, we will take away several times more money. I understand that this ideology comes from Scandinavian countries. I have a good friend in Finland who, every time he comes from a party and has taken a few glasses of wine, puts the steering wheel on a woman who hasn't taken the wine and says that if she got caught, she has given me examples, then because of her income, she would be fined so that she could buy a speedboat, for example, for fine money. He's a rich person. A rich person with a lot of money shots. Whether our society is so rich, whether our society is so richly stratified, it is, of course, a matter of its own. I don't think so. It seems to me that we are dealing very clearly with populism in this draft. If, at times in this Chamber, there is critical talk of substitution and overregulation, these two words are very well suited to this draft. There is substitution and there is overregulation. That is why I am very critical of this draft, of turning into a boring Nordic country, where people are being punished by taking money away from them. At the same time as we have risen in terms of taxes to the level of the Nordic countries, let's say, as a percentage of tax compared to income, we pay more than 50% of our income together with indirect taxes, our income has not risen to the level of the Nordic countries. I therefore believe that the fine policy should not reach the same level as in the Nordic countries, although perhaps the longing for such financial blood in certain social strata is very high. I call for this short-sighted populism to be avoided. Our group does not support this draft in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U280	The political groups have no further requests to speak. Is there anything else the Minister would like to clarify? No, I don't. Then we're done negotiating. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 586. We're done with the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 28 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U281	The next item is No 11, the first reading of the Act on the Bar Association, the Law on the Courts, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Amendment of Laws and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 583. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, is welcome to the Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U282	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! Happy English Day, everybody! In fact, this draft does not contain the term 'infringement', but it must be said that the word 'infringement' is a completely legitimate dogmatic term of penal law. There's nothing unintentional about it. At first glance, this may seem awkward to the reader of popular literature in terms of the beauty of the language, but I think that in a specialized language where very serious sanctions are spoken, in addition to the fact that the purity of the language may be compromised, the accuracy of the term is certainly important. This term was embodied in the Russian era as a social hazard. But this bill actually deals with justice management issues. The draft provides for changes to procedures concerning notaries, bailiffs, insolvency practitioners, patent attorneys, sworn translations and lawyers. It provides for certain tasks to be transferred from the State to public professional associations: organisation of examinations, suspension and restoration of professional or professional activities, replacement, accreditation, recognition of foreign professional qualifications. The draft proposes that these tasks be transferred to patent attorneys and sworn translators in such a way that in the future, both the Chamber of Patent Attorneys and the Chamber of Translators will be set up instead of the activities of the State. In addition, it is a matter of regulating the lives of some liberal professions. For example, the notarial law is complemented by a new basis for the removal of a notary. From now on, it will be possible to remove the notary from office even if the notary is declared bankrupt or if bankruptcy proceedings are terminated as a result of failure. It is also proposed that the legislator discuss and consider the following issue and draw up a position on this matter: namely, whether the keeping of the register of bailiffs and notaries, which is dealt with by the Tax and Customs Board, should be given jurisdiction to the relevant professional corporations. Keeping such a register in terms of its content is undoubtedly not the main function of the Tax and Customs Board. Overall, two separate professional chambers will be set up and given the task of "self-management', based on their high level of due diligence, to organise the profession in a self-governing manner and will provide for a series of technical changes relating to the organisation of the activities of the liberal professions mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U283	Urve Tiidus has a question for you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U284	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When you presented this draft in the committee, the representative of the Chamber of Vandetranslates was present and, in the course of the debate, there was a word on several occasions such as'suddenisation'. The Chamber of Juvenile Translators was not very pleased with this amendment to the law that they should now form such an official chamber. Will you comment a little on those who did not attend the committee session? Why, though, does it seem to them like a coercion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U285	Thank you. Different liberal professions have actually had different interests. After his release, the first Chamber of Attorneys was formed, this Chamber had very strong traditions in pre-war times, but also in Russian times the College of Lawyers fulfilled this role. In general, it has been the case that, in most cases, the liberal professions themselves wish to have autonomous competence to organise their activities. In the case of sworn translators, the current view of the Ministry of Justice is such that a critical number of sworn translations have emerged. We expect that, after the end of the transition period, from 2020, if this House were to be implemented, there should be more than a hundred. If we ask whether this is coercion, then today is not forced nationalisation in that sense. There is supervision of these people's activities, if they deliberately, knowingly mistranslate, then there will undoubtedly be a question of responsibility, and this act can cause a great deal of damage. If today this situation is, say, coerced, it can be said by using this language that it is coercive. However, if we are talking about whether there are any additional grounds for supervision or whether their activities are somehow restricted by nature, compared to the current situation, the answer is 'no'. We propose that these supervisory or organisational tasks which are in the hands of the State be assigned to the Chamber itself. I do not deny, and I also expressed in committee, that their position was skeptical. They consider that they should be involved in interpreting and have expressed their reservations that they would be interested in carrying out such tasks, in internal administrative matters such as the receipt of examinations and also in disciplinary procedures. I have also expressed this position during the debate on the draft, so that they can be further supported economically and revised. We certainly did not achieve in the coordination rounds during the procedure for the draft that most of the sworn translations said that yes, terribly fun, we want this to come, but we also seek dialogue in the procedure for the draft in Parliament. It will certainly be difficult to create such a thing if such opposition remains and maybe grows. The Ministry of Justice has had general logic for 20 years that the liberal professions are trying to organise themselves. The Ministry trusts the translation of the oath, believes they can handle it, but at the moment, the sworn translators themselves are skeptical about whether they can do it best by using energy. But the general logic is that we have the principle of self-regulation in the liberal professions. Why hasn't this been the case before, when the law of the sworn translator has been in force since 2007? The assumption is that a certain critical mass is needed, with three people doing this house would be strange or bizarre.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U286	Peter Ernits, please, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U287	Good manager! Good minister! Before it sounded like 'personalisation', you just repeated that, in fact, the liberal professions could decide. But at the same time, I read here that, although the bartender says that a judge could be a member of the honorary court, it would make the matter more transparent and reliable, because the judges are being approached at some point anyway, you say, forget it, only lawyers can be there, no judges or any other characters. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U288	The specific question concerned the Court of Justice of the Bar Association. In their time, in the 1990's, there were representatives of other judicial authorities in these collegial bodies. What was the point? I cannot say that the state trusted less at the time, but it was certainly intended to ensure the expression of the public interest, that the composition was more diverse and that there was no such risk that there was always a situation within the tsunami, and that it was intended to balance it slightly from the outside. In the course of handling this draft, I acknowledge that the questioner has studied the coordination table in the original version of the letter that, in the current situation, we consider the barter to be 1,000 members of its scale, that internal democracy is being realised and that everything is on a professional level, and we have proposed that the representatives of the other institutions be abandoned. In fact, it's the judge's main task to judge, he gets paid for it, doesn't he have a certain extra burden if he had to go there? But the bar office protested, and we didn't have it, so we figured it out. This means that, according to the draft submitted, there will be four sworn lawyers elected at the General Assembly of the Bar Association, two judges elected in the Court of Justice and one legal scientist who will be a lecturer at least in a state-recognized higher education institution in the field of study. So seven members, most of whom are representatives of the Bar Association, but three members are from outside the Bar Association. That's what we took into account at the bartender's proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U289	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U290	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Good waitress! Does the Ministry of Justice also leave a back door in case he sees a house of so-called free trades becoming too much of a tsunami, so that he makes himself unsustainable by making his decisions? Let me give you an example. If we need to find a sworn translation for a specific language group, but in accordance with the rules imposed by the Tsunft himself, perhaps no one else will qualify, then we have nothing to do, people just have to buy in this sworn translation service from a neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U291	Thank you. Such general oversight competence shall be maintained by the Ministry. That's the logic. They organise their activities themselves, carry out training in professional qualifications, which is very important, monitor compliance with their ethical standards, assess disciplinary misconducts and also identify the level of language proficiency of individuals. If there is an act contrary to the law of any corporation, the Minister is bound to intervene and initiate the supervisory procedure within the framework of his supervisory competence. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U292	Good minister! Members of the Riigikogu for you... Still, anyway. Henn Põllaas, sometime, please, a little bit more quickly. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U293	Thank you. I read from the amendment to the Notarial Law that § 21 (2) regulates the possibility of a notary replacement from among nationals of another Member State of the European Union. Where does that come from? Do we really not have people of our own, and why should people from other countries take our place as substitutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U294	Thank you. This is not a question of any kind concerning... You referred to the paragraph of the draft. Excuse me, which section? Since these amendments are listed as points in the draft, what paragraph? The draft amends the law with its numbering and the laws that are amended have its own numbering. That's so I can answer correctly. [[???Henn Põlluaas kommenteerib saalist: 'Notariaadiseaduse § 21 ...'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U295	Excuse me, Mr. Pier. Do you have another question? [[???Henn Põlluaas saalist: 'Ei, ta küsis ja ma vastan.'???]] So we're like here...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U296	How is it now procedurally right not to even talk to Mr. Pistachio? Yes, indeed, this is a matter of... (Henn Põllaas from the floor: 'Page 15 in the explanatory memorandum. ') Mr. Põllaas has studied the bill thoroughly. There is no specific change in this regard which would provide for a change of substance compared to the current situation. In general, the situation is that there is a law on public service and restrictions can be imposed in the European Union on the law on public service. We have a certain number of places for civil servants where a citizen of another Member State of the European Union cannot work. The assumption is that Estonian citizenship is necessary to express a specific, special relationship with the Republic of Estonia. In the case of the liberal professions, such as lawyers, the principle of free movement of labour applies in itself, so that citizens of another Member State of the European Union can also hold these professions, and in the case of lawyers this principle is provided for. If the question is whether we have a deficit of notaries, that the people of another Member State of the European Union are now coming to be notary, given that there are also language and other professional standards, I can say that there is no plan to launch a competition for notaries in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U297	Now the members of the Riigikogu have run out of questions. Thank you. Before we go to the negotiations, there will be a presentation by the lead committee. Please, on behalf of the lead committee, Raivo Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U298	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was also dealt with by the Committee on Legal Affairs at its meeting on 6 March. The debate on the previous draft has already been read out, and I am not going to read it again. This item was then indeed the subject of a draft law amending the Bar Act, the Law on Courts, the Law on bailiffs and other laws. During the handling of this draft, the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, Adviser to the Minister Jan Trei, Head of the Office for Free Calls of the Department of Justice Administration Policy of the Ministry of Justice Gunnar Vaikmaa and Adviser to the same department Maret Saanküll, Member of the Board of Directors of the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankrupt Administrators Jüri Titus and Chancellor Kristi Hunt, Estonian Attorney General Katrin Kose and Member of the Management Board of the Board of the NGO Chamber of Vandetranslks Maris Järve and sworn translator Taivo Liivak. Alina Kucherova, adviser to the Estonian Centre Party Group, was also there. As the Minister said here, the draft states that two chambers of commerce are on the agenda. The Ministry of Justice has a desire to reduce the volume of its tasks in organising the work of legal professions. This concerns in particular the organisation of examinations, the suspension and restoration of professional or professional activities, replacement, accreditation, recognition of foreign professional qualifications and the performance of office duties. The aim is to transfer these tasks to public professional associations. The draft provides for the creation of a Chamber of Patent Attorneys and a Chamber of sworn interpreters. While patent attorneys were quite positive about the creation of their professional chamber, as was already mentioned here, sworn translators did not take it so positively. This was also the subject of the longest discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Maris Järve presented the views of the NGO Chamber of Vandetranslates to the Commission. They consider that, with the entry into force of this law, there is a risk of a loss of access to the service and that it may add to the price of the service. The Ministry of Justice is based on the assumption that the translation market for sworn translators is growing, but Maris Järve considers this not to be the case because the document circulation in the European Union has simplified and our officials can also accept foreign language documents. At the same time, Järve noted that all sworn translators who wished to do so have been able to join the current NGO, the rest of them acting independently, but according to the draft, all sworn translators must be members of the building to be created. Mrs Järve also pointed out that the public-law Chamber was entrusted with a number of tasks which require resources. He also pointed out that, although the draft states that the Chamber to be set up does not need to have offices and staff, they cannot imagine how, without them, it would be possible to conduct the examinations of sworn translators or to set up a contact point open during normal working hours. He also pointed out that the membership fee of the NGO Chamber of Vandetranslates is currently five euros, but it is also too large in the opinion of many sworn translators, considering the income from the work of sworn translators, and many have not joined the NGO because of this five-euro membership fee. He pointed out that since no state support was foreseen for the House to be created, the membership fee would probably be higher than the current membership fee of the NGO of five euros. There was a lot of talk about this resource problem. He once again found that an independent house of sworn translators was not sustainable and could not finance and organise its activities on its own. According to Gunnar Vaikmaa, representative of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry does not wish to regulate the market, but does not have a strong cooperation partner representing the jury translation. In total there are 91 sworn translators in Estonia and only one third of them are members of the NGO Chamber of Vandetranslcies. He also explained that it would be difficult for the Ministry to supervise sworn translators and to carry out their professional standard and assessment in such a way that sworn translators would be satisfied with it. The Ministry is of the opinion that the Chamber that is to be set up would be more reasonable in creating its own work organisation and setting its own goals. Taivo Liivak noted that some sworn translators act as self-employed, some have created OÜs and some are employed. He, too, felt that the "public house" that was to be created might not work. Livak understood the wish of the Ministry of Justice to reduce his duties relating to free legal professions, but pointed out that, according to the current regulation, the institution of the sworn translator is not a legal profession comparable to the rest of the professions. The desired objectives can be achieved with substantially less burdensome solutions, which could be agreed by sworn translators with the Ministry of Justice before the draft is drawn up. It therefore considered that the part concerning the translation of the oath should be deleted from the draft. Commission chairman Jaanus Karilaid asked if the problem could be solved if the Ministry of Justice developed service standards and allocated a specific resource to sworn translators. Minister Reinsalu said that according to the Ministry of Justice, sworn translators could manage their work better than the Ministry. He added that if sworn translators considered that the dialogue with the Ministry was not sufficient, they had to trust that feeling and asked ministerial officials to have further dialogues between the first and second reading of the draft with sworn translators. Valdo Randpere asked for clarification on the problem the draft is trying to solve. Minister Reinsalu replied that the State could only carry out tasks that were strictly necessary. According to the Ministry, the monitoring and quality of the translation field is not one of them. Gunnar Vaikmaa pointed out that while notaries were still working on translating foreign languages into Estonian, the market will continue to be held by sworn translators and will also help them increase their income. Urve Tiidus wondered whether lawyers and insolvency practitioners had voluntarily formed their own central society. Reinsalu replied that lawyers volunteered for this. Gunnar Vaikmaa added that the creation of a court of insolvency practitioners was not so voluntary, and it was preceded by a heated debate. Jüri Türuss stated that the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators is proposing some changes to the draft. The first proposal concerns the amendment of § 74 of the Law on bailiffs. In their view, paragraph 1 discriminates against members of the Chamber when they act as liquidators and reorganisation advisors compared to those who are not members of the Chambers. The proposal concerns the same payment and collection of fees, the aim being to put an end to the discriminatory situation. The second proposal concerns the addition of § 100 (4) of the Code of Enforcement Procedure and an additional paragraph 41. Paragraph 4 provides for an auction organised by bailiffs, an additional paragraph 41 deals with an auction organised by the insolvency administrator. The Minister promised that the Ministry would analyse these proposals. Katrin Kose stated that the Estonian Bar Association is asking for the phrase 'or who has worked in the office or workplace referred to in the second sentence of § 66 (6) of the Law on Courts' to be omitted from the end of § 26 31 of the Act. The purpose of the amendment to § 26 31 of the Bar Act is to harmonise the requirements for former lawyers, judges and prosecutors to enter the Bar Association. Maret Saanküll stated that the Ministry had wished to harmonise the wording of the Courts Act and added that it did not oblige the administration of the Bar Association to do anything, but in certain cases it would give certain persons the opportunity to become a lawyer without passing the legal examination. Minister Reinsalu explained that the Ministry of Justice wants to be able to move freely between higher legal professions. He was referring to persons who had passed a judicial examination, a lawyer's examination or a prosecutor's examination. The Minister admitted that it may be necessary to clarify the relevant provision of the Courts Act. Finally, the chairman of the committee, Jaanus Karilaid, announced that the Committee on Legal Affairs awaits the assessments made by the Ministry of Justice between the first reading and the second reading of the draft. Karilaid also found that the Ministry could also contribute financially to the creation of the house of sworn translators. The consensus reached on the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 14 March 2018. The consensus was also that the first reading should be completed. The deadline for the submission of amendments, i.e. 5 April 2018 at 4 p.m., was also laid down by consensus. Raivo Time was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U299	Good waitress, the members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. Now it's time for a negotiation. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U300	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, This reflex is perfectly there in me as a liberal: when I hear that something is being tsunamid, housed or, worse, coerced, I immediately think that it is actually synonymous with a market constraint, a market failure. This in itself means that I am cautious and I would also like to express, on behalf of the whole group, a certain scepticism about this draft. I understand that people make up houses, and the liberal professions also make up houses, but it is usually born voluntarily. At the moment, this volunteer didn't seem to be anywhere. There were people on the Commission who were really unhappy. While the minister was talking earlier about something that was not cute, it can be said that there were cute people sitting there who were completely unhappy because they were being forced into chastity. It was almost like forced collection. It's not the wrong parallel, to tell you the truth. I also asked the Minister in the Commission, but I did not get a good answer on how much the Ministry will save with such a change some kind of money or resource. No one had done that calculation. They were questioning each other. No one could say anything. In fact, it could be the starting point, on the one hand, to solve some problem, be it even financial, and on the other hand, to have some idea of how much it will cost now and how much or how little it will cost later. But since there is no such understanding, I inevitably began to think about the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Although I am not saying that there is a violation of the Constitution or even a breach of the Constitution, it is basically that in the Republic of Estonia people have the right to unite in alliances, they are not obliged to do so. That's why I don't like the idea either. I would like to put to the heart of the Minister and the Ministry here that you choose one of the two alternatives: think this through and do as the sworn interpreters wanted, perhaps take the House of Translators out of this bill completely, or find them a material resource and give them help to help them cope with the tasks you are putting on their backs. The fact that the bill gives a member of the House of sworn interpreters the opportunity not to pay the membership fee if he does not have the resources to do so, in three years, is no consolation. Help them with resources, otherwise it's really a forced collection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U301	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U302	Good vice chairman! I'd rather speak from my own point of view. The first time I came into contact with the so-called liberal professions was when the Union made Estonian press photographers, many of whom I knew. I didn't get it. Guys, what do you need this for? Why do you want to write a professional standard? I had been closely involved in the professional standard of a youth worker before that because of my previous work, and I remember how it started to write it. The press photographers quickly explained it to me. At the moment, anyone can take a picture with a mobile phone, but for a press photographer, taking a picture is bread, it is not a sharing service that everyone takes a picture and gets it published in the press. All the more so, press photographers have ethical beliefs that they have always known, but what they have not yet agreed between themselves: what they do not photograph, what images they do not give to their employer. Let's say, for example, the human carcase, when a person has left this world, whether or not it is recorded? Today, somebody's gonna go up there with a cell phone, get 35 euros for the picture, and that's it. There's more to it. At the same time, I've dealt with a lot of NGOs. Many turn to me and say that this tsunami is already such that even nail technicians are now writing themselves professional standards, resulting in half of nail technicians not being nail technicians. And the other half is already writing out the professional standards of a nail technician, under which they would be nail technicians and others would not be nail technicians, but representatives of nail technicians' salons. So, some kind of boom's loose. Everyone is running a race, who is right, either the Estonian Miss or Miss Estonia. As a Riigikogu, we should perceive these things. One concern was when we talked about how to give 25 euros to volunteer sports trainers, which could be tax-free 52 times a year. Good idea! But here, people from other sports voted against. You understand why he can, but why can't we? It will be transferred from this Riigikogu somewhere further away. I support it when the state says that it will only assume those tasks that are essential, and everyone else entrusts the so-called liberal professions. That's a good idea. I do not support the idea that the state has to pimp these free associations financially all the time. It's a learned helplessness. When the cash flow stops, is there no need for this? I have been opposed to this all along, and because of this, some organisations have already declared me persona non grata, because I think that people gather out of free will and money is not what expresses free will. When the money runs out, why do you come together at all? Then tell me it's only your interest to get the money. I want to tell Jaanus Karilaid from the Committee on Legal Affairs that the processing period could be a little longer. I trust the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs could go through these situations. Is this the basis for Miss Estonia or Estonia's miss just what? Or is it going to be the same thing, this cheating, and the way someone votes, depends on who's lobbying this pressure group and who's not? So there's already a problem. Everyone writes professional standards. It's a good thing we're not going to write professional standards here on the basis of the worldview and say that you're liberals and you're not. But the third force that is currently outside the Riigikogu could also say that they are, in fact, the most correct liberals and the two who are here do not represent the liberal view of the world. It's the same with Conservatives. Who's more conservative than anyone else? Whose cornflower is bluer? Whose swallow's tail cut is leaner? Now that's today's situation. I would advise the chairman of the committee to take time off in this regard. In two years, we're gonna start, especially the Justice Department, when we've tied it all to the Tsunft. I can safely say that there are quite a few lawyers today who won't be a barrister because these criteria are decided by other lawyers. Do they want to get more when the soup gets thinner? Today it is possible for any interpreter to buy a sworn translator service, which is already a business. I think there's a problem and you've been informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-14_U303	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 583. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 5 April at 4 p.m. We are done dealing with the items on the agenda. But I would remind you that Aadu Must is waiting for you all to attend the founding meeting of the Tartu Regional Development Support Group. Good night. Closure of the sitting at 5.57 p.m.
