ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, honored guests of the Riigikogu, shelters of work, good day! Question Time. Incoming check, please! 38 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. Members of the Government in Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Environment Siim Kiisler and Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. I will give an opportunity to put forward a more specific question in the debate on each issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U2	The first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, first questioner Jürgen Ligi. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! The government has completed its decision, but one decision has been postponed to Parliament. Parliament does not actually have a direct role to play on the migration framework. You have thrown this into our hands; the majority of the government has essentially handed the decision into the hands of a minority in Parliament. The plan was to give us one night to process it, you've told us which day or week we'll have to make a decision. In the press, your deputy Karilaid says there's really no need for this minority. Today, Mr Ossinovsky spoke at length about how this is a political game and, in fact, this minority is not needed for anything. What are you hoping for? How do you expect this to result in a migration framework in Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Good guests! I will begin with one point: 'This matter has not been discussed with the parliament or the public, and it has not gained the authority to do so, but it will directly limit Estonia's sovereignty to decide matters in its own country. Even the text of this agreement is not available. It is very symptomatic that this secret engagement will not be signed by the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but has authorised the President. None of them have spoken to Parliament. Let him deal with his robotex, but this thing has to be stopped! ' The quote is made by Jürgen Ligi, it has been published on 9 November 2018 in social media. Now you understand this Reform Party. Once you want to discuss this with Parliament, and when it is brought before Parliament, it will not suit you again. You can't do that! You yourself have been in the government coalition for seventeen years, you know how fragile our position is when we talk about having a common foreign policy and defence policy. And now you come to undermine it and play with this foreign policy dimension! You play that once you want this Parliament, once you do not want this Parliament. Like a little kid. You can't do that, Mr. Ligi! Of course, I think listening here to the opinion of honourable members of the Riigikogu in this context is correct, it is appropriate, it is also in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The President of the Republic of Estonia has supported this idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U5	Jürgen Ligi's point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U6	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I interpret it in such a way that you do not need the votes of my group. What was said at the time was the discovery of this pace and the expert's assessment of the effects of this agreement. I'll stick to what I said the other day. This process was stopped. Now you bring this agreement to Parliament and you want the minority in Parliament to decide for the government. That's what I'm pointing at. Is that the mocking tone you're using, the derogatory tone, the foreign policy trick and all, that's your plan now, you don't need our votes, and you can just grin with three or at least two parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U7	Thank you. The following reference is made to the Postimees newspaper of 19 November: 'According to the Riigikogu is necessary to take the pressure off. ' The author is Jürgen Ligi. I think, first of all, point 1, when you say that there is no need for votes, I do not want to live in a country where executive power or Prime Minister says how members of the Riigikogu have to vote. This is not the country of Estonia where I want to live. After all, the way in which you, Mr Ligi, and your group will vote is linked to the fact that, as a member of the Riigikogu, we take an oath of office in front of this Chamber, we are free in our votes, we have a free mandate. I really do not know what your position will be in the vote on this statement. Now the Riigikogu minority. This is the subject the government has been discussing, that is true. It is also true that the government has not found a common position here. In my opinion, in today's situation, it is very right that the Riigikogu evaluates it. And the Riigikogu still gives its opinion to the democratic state according to the majority of the votes. I really do not appreciate the result of this vote next Monday at 11 or 12 or when the honourable Riigikogu will vote on it. I'll come back to the fact that you said the government wasn't making decisions. We will take the document that is on the agenda of the honourable Riigikogu today: the 2019 state budget. There have been very important decisions, important decisions for health care, important decisions for children's benefits, rising pensions, rising salaries for police officers and rescue officers. There have been very fundamental decisions based on the structural balance of the budget, but there can be no mention of the nominal surplus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U8	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U9	Thank you. Your inadequate management decisions started to appear last week when you were dealing with primitive party propaganda instead of resolving the government crisis, sharing candy and not knowing what events. And it started falling apart. Now you have led the government into a deadlock, a dead end, you cannot decide and you are putting responsibility and decision on the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu can do this work; the Riigikogu can decide, unlike the government. But your current arrogant and condescending tone is indeed strange. It is as if you are politically deaf, because you really need the support of the Riigikogu to do this work for you. But now I'm asking. The president has said that he needs a government decision to go to the UN conference. If Parliament makes its decisions on Monday, when will the government decide once and for all that Estonia's foreign policy will be united and the President of the Republic will be able to represent Estonia with dignity before the international community?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U10	Thank you, dear Arto Aas. You're talking about an election campaign. I came here from my work on foot, as I always come to the honourable Riigikogu, and I was quite shocked. There's a car park in front of Castle 1a. I was watching the big poster over there on the big, beautiful Mercedes bus. There's a taavi in the garment. I looked the other way, and there was a big picture of Javier. I don't mind Taavi's garment that he's on the big Mercedes bus. This is an important part of the party's election campaign. Who's on the Mercedes bus, but who's on the train, on public transport. That's it. So don't mind your groupmate coming in here on a big Mercedes bus. Now, is the government stuck? If the government is stuck, the majority of the Riigikogu will most likely have to vote down this government and the opposition will have to take responsibility. I say the government is not stuck, the government is operational. This is also demonstrated by the very fundamental, strategic decisions and priorities set out in the budget for next year: local authorities, agriculture, defence, the largest budget ever. So let's come to the President of the Republic, as you indicated. On 19 November, the President of the Republic of Estonia said: 'We have a country where the voice of the people sounds through the parliament. The people will decide through Parliament. And I think it is fair to see that, if there is no other way of overcoming this situation, the issue will be referred to the most democratic body of our Parliament to discuss. The debate on questions in Parliament is not a way out of government responsibility; it is instead a fundamental foundation of our democracy. ' I agree with the President here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U12	Next, Home Secretary Andres Anvelt will answer, asking Jüri Adams. Please, George Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U13	Mr. Minister of the Interior! I have repeatedly called on you from this Chamber in various forms to put your subordinates to work in order to make a significant difference to the bad situation that developed during the last four parliamentary elections, that Estonians living abroad practically no longer participate in the Estonian elections. Have I just become a real shouter in the desert, but there hasn't been much results. In Latvia, the law on diaspora was passed, I hope that you and your subordinates will be familiar with it, where one important point is precisely to ensure that the state supports all Latvians living abroad to participate in the elections. We've missed the historical advantage, but maybe it'll make your employees work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U14	Thank you. First of all, I will also tell you, honourable Riigikogu, to keep your health healthy and do not be very upset with each other. This is the most important because today is the last time I have to perform before the Riigikogu. But now to the question of Reverend Jüri Adams. Once again, I would argue that this has never been a second, third or fourth class issue for the Ministry of the Interior. As far as Estonian people are concerned abroad, they are constantly being tried by means of various measures, but unfortunately very many foreign Estonians, especially the second and third generations, are not interested in this. This does not apply to everyone, but it is for these next generations that there is a great deal of this problem. We are going to make a huge contribution to those generations who have gone abroad to work and study in Estonia during the time of regained independence. For them, there are several options for the so-called Estonian diaspora. These programmes are run by the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture. The role of the Ministry of the Interior is to coordinate it to some extent and to reach out to these persons, but specifically these two ministries provide them with services. Let us now take this law of the Latvian diaspora. Officials of the Ministry of Interior have made a comparison. In fact, the difference is that they have an ambassador for the foreign Latvians, we don't have one, but the activities are almost all the same. We've just kept them a little apart, but now the Ministry of Culture also has an Integration Foundation in preparation for the creation of an information centre for "foreign Estonians."
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U15	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U16	Thank you. Mr. Minister! A few days ago, I read in an e-mail that you had signed a government statement by your subordinates on the Citizenship Act initiated by members of the Reform Party. Its basic idea is to introduce the same double citizenship option that has been in place in Latvia for about ten years. When I read this text, I was terrified because, in general terms, your officials had written that the Estonian people adopted the wrong grounds of citizenship in the referendums in 1992 and it is as if they should be revisited so that there is no significant difference between native citizens and naturalised citizens of the first generation. What's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U17	Mr. Adams, you should know that much better than I do, because you've been here before and, as you can see, you're gonna be here long after I leave. It's called politics. All the letters signed by the Minister of the Interior can't be suitable for all the people in this room. There are political choices. I am telling you very clearly that Latvia's so-called choice of double citizenship varies depending on what country the citizen is. It hasn't worked for me and my fellow minds. For a very simple reason: with this, we would create more hatred and hatred in the country, because some, as they say, are whiter than others: you are, you are not. I do not think that this is at all beneficial to the rule of law in Estonia of the 21st century. But all roads are open to you. I very much hope that the Free Party will continue in any role in the next Riigikogu, either as a branch of another party or as such a small continuation, and will implement this citizenship policy that you have proposed. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U18	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Anvelt! Let me first stress that we have had a very pleasant cooperation with you even when our views have been different. So thank you and best wishes! But maybe it's appropriate to bring in more of these bigger and newer ideas. We have also talked about the possibility of an external Estonian constituency to bring the diaspora into this hall, to encourage these people to participate more in the activities of the parties, to deal with Estonia's questions and to bring their problems to this hall. How do you feel about that? Could it be realizable at any time, or is there any other means of bringing Estonians, Estonian citizens who live abroad, to a much larger number of ballot boxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U20	Thank you. I think that our citizenship is so small on a global scale that our task as a country is to find these people as much as possible and bring them back to their roots. One expression of this is participation in national and certainly local politics. As life has shown, this cannot best be done by not simply turning to them that the elections are coming, we send information on it and please take part, but we can certainly do so through these initiatives, which the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research are already in the process of doing, they will also extend this ampluaade, as they say, to bring these people back. Firstly, young people can be brought back through learning opportunities. Many new youth exchange programmes have developed, with the help of which young people from outside come to our higher education institutions to study. It is also the promotion of culture, if our cultural people are to be taken into consideration, they are writers, composers or orchestras to the external Estonian community. Then it's possible to activate them, to show that we care about them. When this critical mass is at hand, there's no way I can resist your idea that it could be in this form. But right now, we still haven't reached a level so that we can create a particular circuit. In the near future, we will continue to see external Estonians split between our constituencies. The civil position of external Estonians itself also plays a very important role here. We know very well that one of the principles of Estonia's democratic rule of law is that if citizens still have a serious desire to implement it in this way, they can. So I think it is very important that they relate to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U22	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Martin Helme. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U23	Thank you. First of all, Prime Minister, I should reprimand you for the tone of how you answered the first question. You are here to report to the members of the Riigikogu, not to accuse us or, I don't know, to scold us. As far as the decision-making process in Parliament is concerned, I fully agree that Parliament must be able to discuss and decide all kinds of matters. We can argue whether this could have been a draft decision or a draft statement, but I personally like that all members of the Riigikogu and all the political groups of the Riigikogu must show how they vote on an international agreement promoting mass immigration. It does not make sense to me how this should help the government because, like today in the media, the former legal adviser of the President, Paloma Krõõt Tupay, wrote that what we think or say or decide or vote in this Riigikogu does not change the fact that the government has to decide whether or not to join this agreement. You still have to decide at some point. Don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U24	Thank you, good questioner, Reverend Martin Helme! I take it seriously that you were in Jürgen Ligi's defense, and sometimes I really try to take that tone a little less. Of course, the Riigikogu is very honorable, the members of the Riigikogu are very honorable. Now answer your question. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states in § 65 that the Riigikogu adopts laws and decisions, but it also says in § 65 (11) that the Riigikogu makes statements and declarations and appeals to the Estonian people, other countries and international organisations. Let's keep analyzing the law. § 154 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states that political groups and committees may submit draft decisions of the Riigikogu containing proposals to the Government of the Republic, and the Riigikogu's application, declaration and referral bill may be submitted by at least one fifth of the Riigikogu's membership. That is what has been done in this case. If you look at practice, it can be said that several countries have taken the debate on the migration framework to their Parliament in order to achieve a more broad debate and consensus. As far as I know, this has been done, for example, by our good friend and ally Germany. After all, the government has held up its debate, we know the results, and now really it is before the honourable Riigikogu that we are discussing and evaluating this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U25	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U26	Thank you. I think one part of the criticism is the way this debate is being held here. If the text of the statement is being processed at one reading, it is not really a debate, but at least we can, yes, shape a position. Of course, I do not understand whether, until the elections, the position of the government is such that things that the three of you do not agree on are coming before the Riigikogu and looking at what the coalition numbers are today, where the 51 votes come from or where the majority comes from. Are we going to vote on the state budget in the same way today, that if the three of you do not agree on a cost line in the government, you will throw it to the Riigikogu and see how the vote goes? In my opinion, this is absolutely incompatible with the logic of how Estonia should be governed by all laws. But I'll come back to the question anyway. The statement of the Riigikogu is not a power to make any decision to the government or the President. That's not it. The government gives a mandate to the President or the Foreign Minister, but if he does not give it, the Marrakesh Treaty cannot be joined, regardless of what the Riigikogu decides here on Monday. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U28	Thank you. As a member of the Riigikogu, you know these laws and this maze more precisely, of course, but no-no, so it is not that the President is given authority. As a result of the law, the President has the right to shape and direct foreign relations himself. But I absolutely disagree with your point, and I think you just had a slight glitch. You accept the budget, the Riigikogu decides on the state budget. It is simply our order that we bring this proposal before you from the government side. If you really want to discuss this in Question Time and ask me this, I will say that really, I think there are a lot of good things, a lot of Estonia's priorities next year, 2019. I'll tell you some. For example, we take health care: an additional health funding. We move forward, the indexation of pensions and the increase in pensions around 7.6%. I believe that additional funding in the field of education is important. I mention internal security so that our police and rescuers feel confident that their wages will rise. I think you have also talked a lot about the strength of local governments with your political party (i mean EKRE) so that they can provide good services, quality services, just as close as possible to Estonian residents, to the people of Estonia. This is really my proposal with the government to the Riigikogu. But the budget will still be discussed by you and accepted by the government, it will not be adopted by the government. I wish the entire Riigikogu strength at second reading!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U29	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I have always tried to be very respectful of my political opponents, too, but I think the Prime Minister was clearly overreacting today. The Prime Minister will probably understand the problem. If the government and the Prime Minister are unable to decide on one issue and within that time, the Prime Minister will use the most primitive techniques in the election campaign and try to show people that he is driving a train (though he is driving back in a car with lights) that he is a man of the people, then that is the problem. It's a bigger problem than it looks at first. Jüri Ratas would have been a statesman if he had come to the Riigikogu with the same statement or agreement and said that it was a vote of confidence. This is an extremely important step for the Estonian state, so that we can be credible in the international picture and have a reliable Prime Minister who will lead the country. This would have meant that there would have been a statement before us and that we could have expressed either mistrust or support for this Prime Minister. Today we are playing blindness here in Parliament. Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U31	Thank you. You're always going to be so detailed about the organisation of your field of work, the legislation that it's hard for me to debate with you here, I'm the weak side here. But you were talking about a vote of confidence. As far as I understand your working arrangements, when the government asks you to vote, it is already at the beginning that it says that it cannot make any amendments, and then it is as the government says. I cannot say that there is no need to vote on confidence at all. However, I think that Parliament's debate is needed on this issue. I think that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has set a deadline for the submission of amendments (if I am not mistaken, it will be on Friday) means that it is you who can evaluate it, you can make your proposals on this statement. You're upsetting me, Mr. Urmas Kruuse, because we didn't bring it here as a vote of confidence. Then you couldn't have changed the compasses. I would like to say that I do not believe that the Riigikogu should be deprived of the possibility of debate on this matter. I understand what you are complaining about: that the government is not making a decision. Government departments have different positions on this issue. You also know that the government works by consensus. I will give an example of the European Union Council. Certain issues will be discussed there for years in order to find a common part in order to find a position and never go to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U33	Answers Minister for the Environment Siim Kiisler, asks Kalle Palling. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! On 7 November, you sent a worrying letter on the Waste Act to the Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu. I would like to begin by reminding you that Rainer Vakra, as head of the Committee on the Environment, is still, as far as I know, still part of the government coalition, and this correspondence between the members of the coalition is, to put it mildly, comical. Or maybe there's a wish that this issue will help you solve the opposition, too? Let it be said that we are very concerned because, in addition to you, the European Commission has sent a letter to Estonia, which, to put it mildly, expresses concern that Estonia is not fulfilling the recycling targets. We have made commitments, but we do not comply with them. If we don't fill them out before 2020, they'll be sanctioned. It is known that the fines which can be imposed in the event of non-compliance with the entry targets are very high. The costaires have even talked about the amount of the sugar fine, which is about 50 million. Does the government and the coalition as a whole realise that these amounts are very large and that, in fact, this law should be dealt with in the Riigikogu as a matter of urgency in order to avoid the possible negative scenario that actually seems today, as the European Commission has also expressed in its worrying letter? Thank you also to the manager for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U35	Thank you. There were a lot of questions together, I'm trying to answer. Indeed, less than a month ago, three Commissioners sent a joint letter to Estonia, pointing out that Estonia is one of the 14 countries of the European Union (i.e. half of the European Union) where it is very likely that the goal already agreed in 2008 will not be achieved that at least half of our municipal waste will be recycled in 2020. This has been a serious concern for Estonia. The Commissioners highlight a number of proposals that the country could make. Some are such cardinals; we might not consider them in Estonia at first. For example, fined local authorities that have not taken measures seriously to increase circulation. Very many of these proposals are essentially mentioned in the draft Waste Act, which we submitted to the Riigikogu more than 14 months ago. We have also made further amendments later in order to resolve the situation. Indeed, the situation is that, after the initiation of this draft in the Riigikogu, about two months later, the first reading took place in the large hall. It has now been more than one year and no second reading has been achieved, and no amendments have been voted through. I also looked at the Riigikogu's website, at least according to these data, the last protocol decision on this draft has been taken in the committee more than eight months ago. The point of the letter sent to the chairman of the committee was that the Ministry of the Environment certainly considers it necessary to deal with this draft as a matter of urgency and to adopt the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U36	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Did you guys notice that if you can start the question in a minute, I'm kind of weird to interrupt? Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Well, this time definition that fourteen months ago this bill came to the Riigikogu and eight months ago there was a final debate, per se coincides with the time when the Chairman of the Social Democrats, Jevgeni Ossinovski, solemnly announced that the state was paused and essentially the government was no longer functioning. But then what? As Vice-Chairman of the Commission, I am prepared to give my hand so-called benevolently. At least we will consider the points of this law, where we have a consensus, and we will move on. We will thus at least rule out fines for the so-called internal state of the government, where one party is holding the other back. Indeed, these fines can amount to between 50 million and 100 million. This is a very large amount of money that could do very many good things in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U38	Thank you. First of all, I missed one aspect. I cannot appreciate today how much the possible fine of the European Union could be if we fail to fulfil our obligations by 2020. But one thing is certain: if we show good will and act in practice, we will take measures, including, above all, legislative measures, to move towards fulfilling these obligations, it will certainly be a very mitigating factor. That is what we need to bear in mind: whether we are doing anything in this direction or not. I would not agree that this is an internal issue. The draft is in the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu decides. Today, there has already been several debates on the role of the Riigikogu. But one thing is clear, the Riigikogu clearly has a legislative role, laws are passed by the Riigikogu and all possibilities are available. The majority of the Committee on the Environment will certainly be able to decide to send the draft to second reading and vote in the Riigikogu's large hall. I admit that there are certain points where there are differences of opinion, in particular concerning the collection of packages, i.e. the introduction of this obligation, so that each person has the opportunity to hand over the packages at his own door. Today, there are containers in a few remote locations. This is a major change, but regardless of whether or not this amendment now finds the support of the Riigikogu, I think it is necessary to adopt the law as a whole. I request the support of the Riigikogu to this act!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U39	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, restructuring is planned in order to organise the work of the Environmental Inspectorate and Environmental Board under the authority of the Ministry of the Environment. Do these reorganisations concern only institutions under the Ministry of the Environment, or are they also, to some extent, involved in the management of the Ministry of Rural Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U41	Thank you. These specific reorganisations, i.e. the merger of the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate, on which the draft law is currently being discussed in the Riigikogu, concern these two institutions specifically, i.e. the administration of the Ministry of the Environment. In other areas, including the Ministry of Rural Affairs, they have nothing to do with it. But the fact is that the issue of state reform has been raised, that there could be fewer public authorities, that they could work more compactly, that management costs should be optimised, that they should be used more rationally and that people should be more clearly communicating with public authorities. It's a story in every area. This is just one concrete example of how to implement this type of action as part of the state reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U42	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U43	The following is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asking Andres Herkel. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! We were just talking about excise policy here the day before yesterday, and then it was mainly about excise duties on fuel and its possible reduction. But we were surprised by one of your answers to our question, or quite rightly it was surprising that you were not surprised that the Ministry of Finance had ordered an excise policy study for some EUR 100000, which the head of the Conjuncture Institute has called for a train leaving the station to follow. They put so much money in it, and we've made such big mistakes in this area. Previously, at least the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance were able to agree on a long-term framework for alcohol policy, a Green Paper and such things were adopted. In fact, politicians broke those plans. What prevents your government from developing such a framework itself in the months that remain? Where has this competence gone?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U45	Thank you. I am not questioning the authority's competence to assess such forecasts and impacts. The fact that things are viewed more widely and, at some point, the private sector or non-governmental associations are also ordered analyses or reviews is, I think, a plus, rather than a minus. To read from this, the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Social Affairs doesn't have competence in this field, I wouldn't dare. I certainly, on the contrary, acknowledge them. If we look at the state budget, for example, we can safely say that we can see how strong this competence really is the sum of the sum of the sum. We are talking about a state budget of over 10 billion. Let's see how the state budget has been completed in nine months. He is 73.8% fulfilled. Perhaps this percentage does not say much, but it is eloquent that if we look in monetary terms at how much money should be in the state budget at the end of nine months, and what was the fulfillment, we will see that the difference is 33 million, on the plus side. I think this shows that the competence to carry out fiscal analyses and forecasts is good in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U46	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I, too, do not want to question the competence of public authorities. Rather, ordering such a study really does cause a post factum, how bad it is already done, to ask me a question about the competence of using the money. Besides, it's a very expensive order. But that is not the main question. I will then put the question so that when and how will we reach, at least step by step, future rates of excise duty that are so much comparable with neighbouring countries, both in the case of fuel and alcohol, so that such a loss of revenue to Latvia and perhaps to other southern countries will be reduced or ideally lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U48	Thank you. If border trade could be pulled out of a comprehensive fiscal solution, then it could be done. You rightly said that it is excise policy that has a strong impact on border trade, either in a positive or negative direction. If we lower excise duty, as we talked here on Monday, when I was honoured to answer your question, then in the case of diesel, we must actually assess the excise rates in Estonia and Lithuania. If we are able to bring our excise duty rates to the level of Lithuania, consumption would most likely return to Estonia in a certain part. We can certainly count on that elasticity. The other thing is alcohol duty. Indeed, if it were to be brought to Latvia's level, there would most likely be a reduction in alcohol purchases at the border. But it has a different effect. That is why we cannot take it out of this whole fiscal whole. This is whether this means a budget of 50 million, 60 million or 100 million. This isn't going to be one for one, so if I take away from this container and put it in the other container, it's going to be exactly the same level. We also have to take this into account, Mr Herkel, I believe that you agree, you also know well about these economic matters, that wage levels are different. Thanks to our entrepreneurs, the wage level is in Estonia's favor today, compared to Latvia and Lithuania, not unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U49	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U50	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! I understand you've been under a lot of stress lately, but we still have some manners. When I first asked you about foreign policy, you started telling me about the police pay rise. Let's make a sausage for a sausage, and I'm also talking about something quite different than excise policy. I went to Kadriorg yesterday by chance to talk to the President and we didn't find a common language in almost nothing, but we were unanimous on one thing: the President of the Republic of Estonia doesn't have his own foreign policy and he doesn't conduct independent foreign policy, he's running this foreign policy that the government is putting in place, and the government is really acting under the authority of the Riigikogu. But I'm gonna ask you again what I asked you before. Regardless of what the Riigikogu thinks or publishes or how it votes, to join an international agreement requires a government decision that is currently not. Will this decision be made before 10 December? If not, can anyone go to join this agreement, and if they join it, why is it not brought to the Riigikogu for ratification?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U51	Thank you. I hope you don't mind, but I'm just telling the honourable member of the Riigikogu that I wouldn't go to Kadriorg by accident. You shouldn't go to the president by chance. And you shouldn't go to Kadriorg by accident. Kadriorg Park, I think, is the flagship of the Estonian park. On July 22, this year, he celebrated his 300th anniversary. Look at the beauty of this park! A lot of people are walking there and enjoying this beauty. I don't think they'll wind up in there by chance. Now I will answer your question. I understand that if the Riigikogu makes its assessment, then this is how Estonia should act in the vote on this statement. It is clear that, at government level, the Fatherland does not support the migration framework. The Fatherland has said that they are against it. The Centre Party and the Social Democrats have said that they are in favour of the Migration Framework. The logic of Estonian coalition governments must be taken into account. Wise government partners want to move forward the important priorities in Estonia's life, such as the budget for next year, want to take responsibility for this, I would say, in a frightening society, in a Turbulent society, and to maintain peace and common sense here. I feel that there is a desire today in the Fatherland, there are social democrats and there is a Centre Party. This is a question that comes from our constitution, but that is also what the President of the Republic said, which is not random to discuss here in the Riigikogu. According to that assessment, as you give me, I think we should act.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U52	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U53	Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, asks Uno Kaskpeit. Please, Uno Kaskpeit!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! How did it become possible for the police and border guard staff problems to come to the table so suddenly? It was only at the end of 2014 that nearly 300 officials were made redundant from this institution. The number of students in college, as well as the choice of learners, is getting smaller and fewer, especially those seeking vocational training. Border and police training was collided, the volume of the curriculum was increased and as a result the study period increased. You yourself were in the gang that pushed through bill 447 which abolished the pension of the years earned by the armed forces and police officers in their service since 2020. In my opinion, today's problem is the result of the above-mentioned actions. What is your opinion on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U55	Thank you. Mr Kaskpeit, I wish you peace and health first too! I'm sure I'm gonna miss, actually, my blood pressure is gonna miss your emotional speeches, which are always very nice, but unfortunately, it's not often factual. I'm trying to disprove something now. First of all, the last three years, as well as 2019, are historic for the Police and Border Guard Board, because such an increase in staff costs has never occurred before: 40%, or 43 million, will come. For the first time, the Agency has also received additional funding for new jobs to recruit new people. It has been successfully carried out and is coming to an end. All 45 district constables have come to work, most of the rapid-reactors have come to work. Internal Defence Academy reception. Yes, on the side of vocational education, the choice has always been a little more restraining than on the side of higher education, but there has been no dramatic change in recent years. Rather, this year's situation got better. More than three people, that's not a bad figure at all. It should be taken into account, however, that one in ten young Estonians is trying to study at the National Defence Academy. As regards Estonia entering the demographic crisis, and in the next two or three years, we will end up having almost a third less young people in upper secondary school than we did ten years ago, that is a common concern for all of us. On this issue, too, I have taken a whole series of measures that should reduce this crisis in the PB and the Rescue Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U56	Uno Kaskpeit, a more specific question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! On 1 August of this year, the border guard leader Helen Neider-Verme, who had a complete border guard background, was replaced. He has graduated from the Border Guard School and has experience at the border. The leader Egert Belizeev, who has been put in charge by you, has no border guard experience or training. He's a former immigration officer. Is this the last step to destroy the ideology and knowledge of border guards in this confused institution? Do you also feel responsible for this destruction, which has created today's threats with regard to police and border guard staff?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U58	Thank you, Mr. Kaskpeit! Once again, such a nicely tempestuous speech, the content of which is highly doubtful. First of all, I don't know, maybe if you ever become the Minister of the Interior or go back to the Border Guard, you're gonna put people in the booth. We're assigning people to the post. But that's it. Maybe that's when it's supposed to change, because you have to put a person in a dump so he'll be very uncomfortable sitting there. If we're talking about what frame decisions are made by the police chiefs, I trust them. Certainly, the police, the border guard and, in fact, the former Immigration Service, within it, bear new substantive value. These people are multifunctional, able to react both inside and outside. I don't know where you're getting your information from. Maybe there's a certain amount of nostalgia in it. I understand you as an ex-system person. But it's time to move on, don't stop. Estonia made very important changes in the construction of the Police and Border Guard Board at the beginning of this decade and they need to be moved forward. Our greatest challenge in the coming years will be to complete the eastern border in order to meet all the requirements of a well-protected border. As far as recalling people is concerned, so will we. For example, in the light of the same demographic crisis, the Police and Border Guard Board has started calling people who have left the Police and Border Guard Board, regardless of whether they are retired or retired in the sense of a special pension, in order to recall them. I hope they call you, too, and they'll call you back. You can make a good contribution to what you know best. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U59	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U60	Thank you, good Chairman. Thank you, Minister of the Interior, and good luck with the next steps. Yesterday we had the head of the PPA, Elmar Vaher, on the Committee on Legal Affairs. We touched on the crisis of police officers that could occur over the next five years. In particular, police officers may be entitled to a special pension at the age of 50 or 55. The prognosis is that over the next five years, 900 people will resign, which is quite a lot. If we also look at our problems with the traffic culture, we can see that these people are very important to us. The PBA proposed that a system could be set up so that a person could withdraw a special pension and, at the same time, remain employed as a police officer. What is the position of the Ministry of the Interior, knowing that the PBA expressed the view a year ago that special pensions should actually be abolished? At present, EUR 16 to 17 million is spent on special pensions, at least doubling over a period of 10 years. What is the position of the Ministry now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U61	Thank you. Firstly, I would like to say that the Ministry has actually developed this proposal and sent it to the coalition partners. First of all, it was approved by the Coalition Council, already in the spring. We also sent him to the interministerial coordination ring. My ladies and gentlemen at the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, he paused to discuss how he would interact with the ideology of the appointment of special pensions in his time or with the ideology of the drafting of this law in the early 1990s, rather than with another purpose rather than now: that there would be a pension supplement. I strongly support this because I believe that this issue must be resolved, even if it cannot be resolved in today's coalition. In fact, I have a proposition for you. Very soon one law amending the Police and Border Guard Act should begin to move, and I believe that this intergroup interaction is much better in the Riigikogu. I have also spoken to the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs that this draft, which exists, might come in here because it was a little short. But there's one thing I want to tell you. It is always an easy solution to say that we have a special pension and that it solves all the questions. You know, I've been the college director myself, worked there for years, and I was on dozens of admissions boards. Young people who go to school, let's say, over 90% of them don't care about pensions. That's what they're interested in, I've seen them, who come to school because his grandfather or grandmother said, "Hey, go there, there's a good pension. But most people don't care, they're interested in a good salary when they enter the organization. To this end, today's government has worked very hard. For example, the pay of the constable in Ida-Virumaa will be 1700 euros, which is a very good salary in Estonia, which is why the present Estonian Academy of National Defence has about a quarter of those who have come from Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U62	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U63	Answers Minister for the Environment Siim Kiisler, asks Ain Lutsepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U64	Chairman! Dear Minister, Inappropriate speech and emotionalism have been repeatedly criticised here today. I'm trying to stay in a decent frame. The objective of the forestry development plan is to reach a social agreement to guide sustainable forest management. My question is specifically about the situation of private forest owners. Does the new forestry development plan provide for compensation or compensation or other incentives for private forest owners where the management of the forest they own is limited and hindered by conservation, environmental protection or other restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U65	Thank you. In developing the new forestry development plan, we are now at the stage where we are about to present a starting point for the approval of the government, i.e. we are at the start of the preparation of the new development plan. The development plan is expected to be in place between 2021 and 2030. We still have an existing development plan. We have really done a great deal of publicity and involvement, and in the process, various target groups have been able to highlight their concerns. With regard to this area, which you are asking about, it has been pointed out and raised as a problem, for example, that the financial mechanism for preserving the natural values of forests is not sufficient, that it is not sustainable enough, that it is not fair or that the measures for fair compensation have not been sufficient. In many cases, compensation for loss of income for forest owners and local government is not sufficient or does not exist at all due to restrictions. These reproaches have indeed sounded. Which solutions exactly are proposed in the new development plan, it is too early to say today. These issues are certainly being dealt with, but there are, in fact, a number of measures, such as land tax exemptions, the possibility of granting protection to the country, the possibility of selling this land to the country, annual compensatory mechanisms are in place both in Natura areas and in other protected areas for the target protection zone. But I agree that there have been reproaches that this is not enough, and there have been reproaches that countries that have recently been protected have not bought out the country at enough speed. I see clear signs of improvement here. These issues will certainly also be included in the new development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U66	Honourable Riigikogu! Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Minister of the Environment Siim Kisler! But thank you very much to Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. We wish you luck, but first, health, health and health. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U67	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We'll start the Wednesday session on the 9th working week. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Marko Pomerants, please! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U68	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, In the morning, there was a conference of the State Reform Foundation in this house, which was also about legislation and the need to contain it. I am now trying to make two-to-one things, to make the life of the Riigikogu a little more compact and to make it more sensible and, on the other hand, to curb existing legislation. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have come to realize that there is, however, a tiny joint part of the amendments to the Riigikogu's law on home and working procedures, which have been discussed and where consensus has been found. For example, it could be that special, problematic and other committees, whose manoeuvres we have considered as decisions in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, would be the responsibility of the governing board of the Riigikogu in the future. Let's hope they do this nicely on the board. What makes our working week different and more flexible and could be a substantive change is a proposal that we can process drafts from Monday to Thursday and also listen to enquiries, which means that we are more effective. It's that little thing we did. If we make it all better with the amendments, then it will be fine. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U69	I'm sorry they didn't listen! Dear Riigikogu, do I have to ask Marko Pomerants, alone, to apologize for not wanting to listen to him? Please, Marko, I'm sorry! There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft, and we are taking him to the procedure under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Honourable Riigikogu, on the agenda. The Finance Committee has proposed to remove 16th item from the agenda of today's sitting, the second reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. This item is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U70	Let's start working on the drafts. The first item on our agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U71	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief, but specifically. This bill came into this hall for one purpose. This bill reached this hall because it was intended to abolish the requirement for the Secretary of State to be a lawyer. The wise Riigikogu understood that this was not a good idea. But in order for this bill not to be so short, there were still a number of points that were not really necessary. So we have reached a point where we have a bill on the table that is not needed. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs just went to the pulp and said that we are trying to reduce legislation. Now's the chance. We do not need to introduce this law because it is simply not necessary. Without this law, you'll be fine. But to talk very briefly about what is left in this bill and why it is not needed, this bill is, in fact, the first step on the way back to the silo at government level. A few years ago we made a legislative amendment, a fundamental decision was made in the government of Taavi Rõivas that we would decouple ministers and ministries from the fields of activity. Now we see that the Ministry of Finance wants everything back to be in the law, and the Ministry of Finance would do it, the second or third thing. Well, that doesn't make sense. Consequently, it is not necessary. Secondly, as I said, the meaning of this law has disappeared. Indeed, there is simply no need for this law. So I'm not gonna say anything else. This law, this amendment to the law, is not needed in the Estonian legal space, and just as in the case of the Secretary of State we maintained the law, we could also stick to the minister responsible for the field, so that flexibility can exist in the Estonian system of governance. Therefore, the Reform Party does not support the adoption of this law and recommends that all members of the Riigikogu press the red button to give the government a fundamental signal that it is not necessary to bring unnecessary legislation into this Chamber, friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U72	I'm closing the negotiations. There is no further wish for negotiations and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since the adoption of Bill 662 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, the verification of presence, please! 94 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 662. Please take a stand and vote. There are 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft act, 40 against and 2 abstentions. The Act of Amendment of the Government of the Republic Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U73	The following draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, this time no. 651, third reading. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's get to the vote. With your permission, I will now announce the vote within one minute. Honourable Riigikogu, Bill 651 also needs a majority in plenary for adoption. Incoming check, please! Currently 93 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 651. Please take a stand and vote. There were 84 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting Bill 651 as a law, 5 against and 1 abstention. Bill 651 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U74	Our next item is the draft law on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 675. I will open negotiations at third reading. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, Bill 675 also needs a majority in the composition of this House. Incoming check, please! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present. I am voting on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 675. Please take a stand and vote. There were 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft as 675 law, 8 against and 3 abstentions. The Act amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U75	Fourthly, our agenda is the third reading of draft law 678 on the prevention of unfair competition and the protection of business secrets initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Speech on behalf of the Free Party Group. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U76	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I think many of us were at the State Reform Conference this morning. I believe that this is a draft that the Chancellor of Justice has referred to twice, talking about excessive legislation. This draft has been brought before us merely because it seemed reasonable for someone to replace the term 'fair competition' with 'unfair competition'. We do not believe that this is justified, such a switch to English in any case and at any cost. For example, in French, the word déloya is used here, which does not translate 'unfair'. We can also live calmly with the Estonian language, and we do not need to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U77	There are no further requests to speak. I will conclude the negotiations and, on a proposal from the Commission, we will go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, Bill 678 also needs a majority vote in plenary for adoption as a law. So presence control, please! 92 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. I am voting on draft law 678 on the prevention of unfair competition and the protection of business secrets initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the draft 678 Act, 13 against and 2 abstentions. The law on the prevention of unfair competition and the protection of trade secrets initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U78	Draft law amending the General Part of the Civil Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law of Obligations Act, the General Part of the Civil Code Act and the Law on the Implementation of the Law on Private International Law Act 627 third reading. I'm opening negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu, I will reopen the negotiations because I am afraid you have not heard me. I'm closing the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law amending the General Part of the Civil Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law of Obligations Act, the General Part of the Civil Code Act and the Law on the Implementation of Private International Law Act 627. Please take a stand and vote. There were 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting Bill 627 as a law, 6 against and 2 abstentions. Bill 627 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U79	Sixthly, our agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Committee on Rural Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, we are taking a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee 648. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 648 as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U80	Seventhly, the third reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 699. Please take a stand and vote. There were 63 members of the Riigikogu, 10 against and 4 abstentions in favour of the adoption of the draft 699 Act. Bill 699 has been passed as a law. Honourable Riigikogu, I understand that you are excited, and I also understand that you do not want to listen to me, but now the presentations are starting, so please, if you need to talk to each other, do so elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U81	Next on our agenda is the second reading of Bill 711 of the Act approving the amendments to the 1996 Protocol to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Environment Committee is Meelis Mälberg. Please! [[???E. Nestor M. Mälbergile: 'Meelis, ära hakka enne rääkima, kui nad vait jäävad!'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U82	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The Government of the Republic initiated this draft law consisting of a single sentence on 8 October. a. First reading was completed in this Chamber on 25 October and then the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 8 November. No amendments to the draft law were received. However, the Committee on the Environment itself decided to make one amendment. This draft was discussed by the Commission between first and second reading on 15 November 2018 and then the amendment that we ourselves tabled was also discussed. Its content is that the title of the draft law will be added to the year of adoption of the Convention. This amendment is technical and does not change the substance of the draft. In addition, the draft contains linguistic and technical clarifications, nor does it alter the content of the draft. The Commission took the following decisions at its meeting: to propose to send draft 711 for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 21 November 2018 and to propose a final vote on draft 711. Both of these proposals were supported by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U83	Colleagues, if I may disturb you, I have the following question: do you have any questions for the waitress? Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. One amendment has been tabled for draft 711. Looks like everybody's okay with it. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 711 approving amendments to the 1996 Protocol to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 711 as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 711 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U84	The following is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The Rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment is Kalle Palling, Vice-Chairman of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very good bill. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 June, including. The first reading was closed on 26 September and the deadline for submitting the amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 10 October. One amendment was tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Aivar Surva, Meelis Mälberg and the speaker here. During the period between the first and second reading of the draft proposal, the draft has been discussed once at the Commission meeting, we did so on 15 November. Representatives of the Estonian Hunters' Association and the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa took part in the meeting on 15 November. In addition, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment took part in the meeting, who submitted statements by ministries on these proposals. At its meeting on 15 November, the Committee on the Environment decided to table four amendments to the draft. I'll give you an overview. Amendment 1 is of a technical nature. Change the title of the draft, insert the word'modification'. Amendment 2 amends the Environmental Charges Act so that municipalities in Ida-Virumaa receive more money from environmental charges. Several local authorities consider that the current financing of the local government unit does not take into account important factors relating to the distribution of environmental charges between local governments and the state. In particular, local authorities do not have incentives to develop and support the industry on their territory as a result of the distribution of environmental charges. According to the current law, the distribution of environmental charges between the state and local government budgets does not take into account the environmental impact of the treatment of oil shale on the local government unit. Due to the lack of compensation for the environmental impact of the thermal treatment of oil shale and the location of ash deposits, local authorities do not wish to permit the implementation of new projects with environmental impact on their territory. Due to the opposition of local authorities, a number of planning procedures related to the development of the oil shale industry have been significantly difficult, while enabling the oil shale industry to be developed in a modern and more environmentally friendly manner. In turn, the development of oil shale energy as well as the Estonian economy as a whole has been hampered because of the fact that the local government does not receive any part of compensation for disturbance elsewhere, let us mention offshore wind farms in Hiiumaa or the worth of timber somewhere in southern Estonia. In the introductory sentence of § 551 (11) of the Environmental Charges Act and in point 1, the part of the oil shale mining right fee received by the local government unit is increased. According to this proposal, the municipal budget would receive up to EUR 0,37 per tonne of oil shale extracted if the oil shale mining right fee in the reporting quarter was equal to or higher than EUR 0,37 per tonne. The additional EUR 0,08 per tonne of oil shale extracted shall be allocated to the budget of the local government unit where the extracted oil shale is heat-treated in the respective installation for oil shale oil or electricity production. The amendment aims to ensure that local authorities where oil shale processing installations are located are compensated for potential environmental impacts that are not guaranteed by existing environmental charges. The rate of EUR 0,37 per tonne shall be reached in accordance with Annex 2 to the Government of the Republic's Decree of 7 July 2016 entitled "Tax rates on the right to extract state-owned mineral resources' if the average world market price of heavy fuel oil with a sulphur content of 1% is at least EUR 251 per tonne. In a situation where the average price of fuel oil is less than EUR 251 per tonne, the local authority of the oil shale processing site shall not receive a premium. In conclusion, this amount of money is indicatively 2.5 million euros, which in a different distribution is proportionally received by the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa. We believe that this will help to facilitate cooperation between local authorities and local businesses. Amendment 3 complements Paragraph 56 (1) of the Environmental Charges Act in such a way that for the implementation of the environmental programme, the Ministry of the Environment allocates an amount equal to at least the amount received in the state budget from the fees for the special water usage rights in the previous year. The proposal is made because the Environmental Investment Centre will retain sound funding to finance environmental projects. This amendment is due to the fact that the original purpose of this law was to separate from the KIC budget those projects which essentially go back to the State itself, those which the State itself seeks, and in order to ensure that the environmental sector is sustainable and of the same size of funding, or not less, such an amendment was made. As the amount of water used for oil shale mining is more or less constant, it is also possible to predict the receipt of this fee, otherwise it would be difficult. Amendment 4 is made by the members of the Riigikogu Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Aivar Surva, Meelis Mälberg and here the speaker. Its aim is to invest environmental charges from mineral extraction and removal of pollutants, following the example of the Norwegian State, and dividends from RMK in Estonian environmental R &amp; D. This fund, not directly, would invest and its revenues would be further invested in R &amp; D. Today's situation in which environmental charges and RMK's dividends are used to cover current budget expenditure is neither sustainable nor reasonable. Collecting money from the use of nature and investing in the development of innovative environmental technologies will enable important forward-looking developments to be carried out instead of day-to-day spending. The Future Investment Fund (FIF) is the first step in the oil shale electricity exit strategy, allowing the currently mainly oil shale dependent area to be prepared for new, modern jobs and developments. After a long and in-depth discussion, the Committee on the Environment did not fully take this amendment into account, as the creation of such a fund would require the development of a longer-term vision and precise regulation. As one of the authors of the amendment myself, I can say that this could be accepted on one side, particularly because the Ministry of the Environment confirmed that they themselves had a plan to set up a similar fund in the long discussions on the table and, in fact, it should not be limited to environmental charges from oil shale mining and dividends from RMK, but could in the future include, for example, money from the sale of the CO2 quota (which we do not need ourselves) and money from other mineral extractions. Indeed, I think that this amendment makes sense in itself. The representatives of the Ministry also confirmed that this was necessary, but the development of this fund requires longer preparatory work. That is why this proposal was not taken into account, but the work is going on to create it. In addition, there was a proposal from the Hunters' Association, which essentially provided for a solution to copy the original idea of the draft. Today, the situation is that the Hunters' Association has an administrative contract with the State to carry out public tasks, but the Hunters' Association must apply for money from KIK for the expenses necessary to carry out these tasks. In itself, it's kind of a perverse situation where you basically know you're gonna get that money, but you still have to make an application. That's why the Hunters' Association proposed this. But the representatives of the Ministry confirmed that, in order to avoid this situation, this law has been submitted to the Riigikogu, so that in the future it would be possible to negotiate directly and not have to undergo such bureaucratic procedures. Now, decisions and suggestions. At its meeting on 15 November, the Committee on the Environment decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today and to propose that the second reading be stopped, and when the second reading of the draft is completed, it is proposed that the draft be sent to third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U86	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! One amendment proposed a future investment fund. You yourself explained here that the Ministry of the Environment has stated that they have had the same idea and it is clear that this vision, this idea is excellent, but it needs to be further worked out. Did the Ministry of the Environment explain any schedule, or did it remain so floating that we had an idea and we would do it someday? Did it also be stated in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U88	Thank you. The Ministry of the Environment works well with smart and smart people. The fact that they confirmed that they had such thoughts and that they were working on it was enough for us in the same way, given that on 3 March the elections of the Riigikogu are still a matter of setting priorities for the new government coalition. But I'll come back to the vision or plan that the Ministry of the Environment has been running around in the corridors. This is also a little related to the preparation of another plan. In fact, an analysis of the externalities of the oil shale sector has been carried out over the past three years, which estimates the environmental burden actually generated by the so-called various activities and the level of the burden it would be fair to pay for. If this is the case, it will be possible to take the next step, to decide where we will use the money from the burden. I believe that the idea of those who proposed this fund was to avoid a situation in the future where the budget is out of balance and then some sort of fee rate is being turned on somewhere and the budget goes into balance. This is an unstable approach to both the sector and the country. But this proposal will ensure that it is known that this money cannot be used for our everyday activities, cannot be used to patch up the budget, but that as much as RMK's dividend or environmental reward comes, can be invested and kept in the form of Norway for future generations. Norway seems to be a very rich country, but they don't spend their oil revenues every day to build a conference hall or something like that, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U89	No further questions. Thank you, Kalle Palling! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Four amendments to the draft 660 have been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and, of course, they have been taken into account. Proposal No 1 of the Committee on the Environment Someone's interrupting my meeting! Proposal No 2 of the Committee on the Environment, Proposal No 3 of the Committee on the Environment. The fourth amendment has been tabled by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Aivar Surva, Meelis Mälberg and Kalle Palling, the leading committee has not taken into account, but according to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the proposal is not to be voted on. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The second reading of Bill 660 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U90	As the tenth, our agenda includes the second reading of the Act amending the Act on the Act of Assistant Police of the Members of the Riigikogu, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laaneti, Jaanus Kariladi, Toomas Vitsut, Raivo Aegi, Uno Kaskpeiti, Valdo Randpere, Külliiki Kübarsse, Margus Tsahkna and Liisa Oviir. The Commission's rapporteur is Jaanus Kariliid, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U91	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, A brief look back. This draft was submitted on 7 May and the first reading took place in this large hall on 22 August. At its meeting on 21 June 2018, the Government of the Republic decided to support the draft law amending the Act on Assistant Police Officers, provided that all comments and suggestions made in the opinion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs were taken into account. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the preparation of the second reading at three meetings: 23 October, 15 November and 19 November. As the table of amendments is available to all of you, I will not go through the proposals one by one, but I will make three brief points on what these amendments concern. Firstly, the amendments close many of the gaps that remain since 2010 when the Act on Assistant Police was passed. Secondly, harmonisation of the use of special instruments, or the possibility of training in the use of other types of weapons, if these weapons are used by the police. For example, the taser is used by the police, but it is simply not stated in the current law. Auxiliary police officers will therefore be given the opportunity to receive training on the same basis as in the case of firearms. Thirdly, the amendment harmonises the involvement of police officers in general. For example, the issue of uniforms. A deputy police officer will be wearing a police uniform with special features, so it's understandable that it's an auxiliary police officer. Special thanks for the consensus approval of these 22 proposals in the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaak Madison, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt and also Veiko Kommuskaare. We were able to hold these debates, reach an agreement and make the following decisions: we propose that the second reading be stopped and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed, and then that the final vote on the draft be carried out. Such were consensual procedural decisions taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U92	Questions for the waitress, please! There are no questions. Thank you, Jaanus Karilaid! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let us examine the table of amendments. There are 23 amendments. The Commission's proposals, as you know, have been supported. The first is a proposal from the Commission, the second is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the third is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the fourth is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the fifth is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the sixth is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the seventh is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the eighth is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the ninth is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the tenth is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 11 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, of course taken into account, the 12 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 13 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 14 is a proposal from Jaak Madison, the Committee on Legal Affairs has been disregarded, the 15 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 16 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 17 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 18 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 19 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 21 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs of Justice, the 21 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 22 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs is a proposal is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 22 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the 22 is a proposal is a proposal is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs is a proposal is a proposal is a proposal is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the 23 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs is a proposal from the 23 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the 23 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the 23 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal. Thank you. The second reading of Bill 631 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U93	The 11th item is the second reading of the draft Personal Data Protection Act 679 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U94	Good afternoon. This bill, with a second number, you have already been able to deal with here, it was in the spring, and then the government decided to withdraw it from the procedure. But this bill, with a new number, has come to our attention again, and I have to say, it's been done a lot. In fact, two drafts must be examined together, one is draft 679 which is a draft law on the protection of personal data, and then there is draft 650, which is a draft law on the application of the law on the protection of personal data, with which I will soon come here before you. So one in front of the bill and one after the other, and that's how they should be dealt with. Indeed, I am not going to read these dates to you, but at least seven times we have worked on this bill. We must admit that we have also come to the amendments. These amendments were initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I will simply go over them very briefly. The first amendment concerns the consent of the data subject and the consent of his or her heirs and the length of that period if the data subject has died. This initiative has come from outside this hall, one might say that Tarmo Vahter, the journalist of the Estonian Express, has been behind it. I am now saying that there would be books to be, for the simple reason that the circle of persons whose data can be processed will be expanded upon the entry into force of this bill. In existing law, the situation is regulated as follows: The consent of the data subject shall be valid for the lifetime of the data subject and for 30 years after the death of the data subject unless otherwise decided by the data subject. If the data subject has died as a minor, his or her consent shall be valid for 60 years after the death of the data subject. After the death of the data subject, the processing of his or her personal data shall be permitted with the consent of the he or she, unless 30 years have elapsed since the death of the data subject and 60 years have elapsed since the death of the data subject who died minorly, and there is a third possibility that the processing of personal data is carried out on another legal basis. The situation we are proposing is that ten years and the lifetime of the data subject anyway, but after death, the rights of the heirs are available and then personal data can be used. In the case of a minor, then the time would be 20 years, so surely this circle will be wider. Why did we decide that 10 years would be better than 30 years, or why would it be 10 years? We found such a rational approach that 10 years should be the time after the death of the person, when the heirs should have learned between themselves how to deal with the rights of the data subject, and then the public will also be part of the life of these big people, supposedly, people. The Commission decided to support this amendment. The second amendment is also a 'external' proposal, which reads as follows: We've expanded the bases a little bit. 'The transfer to a third party of personal data relating to the breach of the obligation and the processing by a third party of the data transmitted shall be permitted for the purposes of assessing the creditworthiness of the data subject (Identifying. Existing text. For M. P.) or similar purposes (This is then an update or addition. (M.P.) and only if the controller or processor has checked the accuracy of the data transmitted and the legal basis for the transfer of personal data and has registered the data transfer. ' Why is such an amendment reasonable and necessary? This should be an additional helper for the functioning of healthy economic relations in Estonia. However, before entering into an economic partnership with someone, data on their creditworthiness can be requested and transmitted. This is not another amendment to the Cohabitation Act, Mr Ligi, which is the third proposal. Now listen carefully so that you don't go away again, how to say, the picture. Paragraph 11 'Processing of personal data in a public place'. So, very calmly I read: 'Unless the law provides otherwise, in the case of recording as sound or image material in a public place, the consent of the data subject for the purposes of disclosure shall be replaced by the consent of the data subject in such a form as to enable him to understand the fact of recording sound or image material and, if he wishes, to avoid recording himself. The obligation to notify shall not apply to public events the disclosure of which can reasonably be expected. " It sounded like quite a nightmare, but now I'm trying to explain it to you. It means cases like this when there's a letter in the public space that you guys, I don't know if they're filming or photographing. This letter must be visible from such a distance or in such a position that you can not walk into the camera, in other words, it is pointless when you look into the camera and read this letter with your eyes astonished. If you don't want public attention, you can go aside, but if you go to a party and you're in a public place, you can assume you can stay on some recordings. The fourth amendment is technical and the fifth amendment concerns the entry into force of this law. This amendment is analogous to this proposal, which is also made on the draft law on the implementation of personal data. We offer 15 January 2019 the date of entry into force. Why January 15th? The reason is that, if it were, for example, 1 January, the President would certainly have little time to deal with it after the adoption of the law. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, why can't it be February 1st? However, the General Data Protection Regulation has been in force since spring, so that this law should be enforced as early as possible. Why else is fixing such a date important? There is a third reason for this. A number of our committees are currently dealing with draft laws that relate to the Personal Data Protection Act or the Personal Data Protection Act. Everyone should have a clear picture of which provisions will enter into force. In two cases, we have already done so by bringing these changes to this law from the laws that are pending but not so far advanced, and thereby creating legal clarity. As regards the point that broke out in the spring, whether the press can process personal data only if it is of overriding interest or in the public interest, I say that the text of the draft is exactly the same as when this draft was received in the Riigikogu proceedings, there are no changes here. Once again, if the papers do not appear tomorrow, then at least it is not behind the Personal Data Protection Act. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is, of course, to conclude the second reading of the draft and move towards the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U95	The next step is a round of questions. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Honorable waitress. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a second reading, all members of the Riigikogu can negotiate. That's not what you want. Five amendments to bill 679 have been tabled, and we will examine them together. All amendments have been tabled in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision is one: take full account. However, the first amendment, the second, third, fourth and fifth amendments, as well as from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is the decision of the commission to take full account of. We have examined the amendments to the draft. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 679. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U96	Second reading of Bill 650 of the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the microphone is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U97	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On this bill, I would say, as one of the classics has said, either Ivan Squirrel or Herbert Ving in Café: 'Oh, horror! ' This is precisely a situation where more than one hundred sectoral laws are amended in the light of the amendments made to the Data Protection Act. I must say that these amendments fall into different categories. There is no such tuning and beauty around here, it concerns, above all, the Health Services Organisation Act, which still has such a last-minute treatment, and even if, now, personal data cannot be processed, I do not know what is missing there. For example, we have come to a situation where there is also a description of the cases in which doctors and medical staff can process personal data for prevention purposes. However, the amendments tabled by the entire ugly group are once again those that existed in the original draft, where the initiator of the draft introduced all kinds of restrictions, above all, to the press again. This concerned either legal proceedings or access to registers in substantive terms, as well as the increase in the fees charged. So, to put it simply, the result is that a number of amendments will restore the existing law, i.e. there will be no restrictions. Now, from another amendment, this is Amendment 10. I will try to pass it on in a very simple way. We have, of course, tabled this amendment again in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It excludes paragraphs from the draft or amends paragraphs concerning the processing of mass data. This concerns a number of laws: the Identity Documents Act, the Security Authorities Act and also the Defence Forces Organisation Act. I want to say that if the term'mass data processing' goes beyond the law, it does not mean that, in essence, mass data may not be processed in the future, i.e. the data of more than one person at a time. The reason why this concept was left out is simply that the content of this concept has not been defined and it has not been clarified today that there is a limit between mass data and an individual query. So the authorities that have to stand up for the security of our country can continue to do their work in their current form. Then we have brought here a series of amendments, starting with Amendment 15, concerning the determination of the reliability of a background check person. Why did we do that? It is known that there will be a time when the draft law on prudential control will enter the proceedings of the Riigikogu, but it is not very clear what number the composition of the Riigikogu will be. That is why, once again, we have proposed changes for you to do your day-to-day work, to ensure our security here. Most of the changes are made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself. Member of the Riigikogu Barbi Pilvre has also used his opportunity to propose amendments as an ambassador, but they are mostly taken into account in the proposals of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself. Maybe there's another sign problem. This is about getting personal data from the traffic register in a situation where cars are somewhere ahead, they've jammed the entrances. Here too, a valid law remains in force. This interference with the right to protection of personal data is balanced and its public interest is justified in order to enable the services to work and to avoid obstacles. The number of amendments is high; this was already mentioned. Really, some of them are also just in the context of beauty, but we reached 63 proposals. The latter is once again the same proposal for entry into force. If we now go down the hanger track and finish second reading, we must first adopt the Personal Data Protection Act and then adopt the Implementation Act. By the time of entry into force we also thought to put 15 January 2019. It was busy! The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U98	There will be a round of questions before negotiations. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U99	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! You have given an example here of the processing of personal data after the death of the data subject that the assumption and expectation is that, within ten years, the heirs should resolve these issues. In the case of both the previous and the present laws, did you discuss how these nearest heirs would be able to obtain more easily the information related to the succession? My ideal vision is that even on the portal eesti.ee there would be everything that concerns it and what are the things that the heirs must decide on. Today there is a feeling that neither the notary nor anyone has a complete picture (also because of the administrative reform) that is being dealt with at all and where to turn. I'm here in my personal life from what happened this summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U100	We did not specifically discuss succession rights in the context of the procedure of this bill, and there were no changes. I simply take this opportunity to say that there were still amendments, for example, a proposal from the Estonian Association of Hospitals concerning the deadline for the preservation of the deposits, and here we stuck with the wording of the draft. The reason is very simple: given the interaction with other laws, we did not have sufficient certainty and clarity that shortening the retention periods offered by the Hospital Association would be reasonable. If such a debate is held between the Association of Hospitals and the Ministry of Social Affairs and some other understanding is reached on the digitalisation that leads to life, then these changes will come, but we have not done so at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U101	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no wish. 63 amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will examine them one by one. They are all taken into account or taken into account in substance, but still. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. Amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. The 16th amendment has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu Barbi Pilvre, the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. The 17th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Steering Committee, which is also the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has taken full account of it. This is also the case with Amendment 18 and Amendments 19, 20, 21 and 22. The 23rd amendment has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu Barbi Pilvre and the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. The 24th amendment has again been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is fully taken into account. Similar amendments are also amendments 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 and 40. Amendments 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 have also been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The same is true for amendments 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59 and 60, which have also been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account of. The same is true of Amendment 61. Amendments 62 and 63 have been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The amendments to the draft 650 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U102	The next item is the second reading of the draft law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Mr Raivo Põldaru, member of the Social Affairs Committee, would like to speak as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U103	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill provides for the provision of funding to the health insurance fund for the treatment of uninsured persons. Its first reading took place in this Chamber on 17 October. The members of the Riigikogu and the political groups did not submit any amendments to the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments. The draft was discussed by the Commission at three meetings, which took place on 8, 12 and 19 November. The first session held a discussion on the draft opinions and the proposals made in the letter of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The wish of the Ministry of Social Affairs was to create in this Act the possibility for the Health Board to access personal data of people during its inspection. The Commission discussed this at two meetings for a very long time and, after consulting the Data Protection Inspectorate and the Ministry of Justice, a decision was taken on 12 November that this proposal would not be supported. The proposal of the Institute of Family Medicine and Public Health of the University of Tartu was further examined, which also provided for screening for uninsured persons. This proposal was also not supported on the basis of explanations provided by representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The referral to the Estonian Medical Association and the proposal made there were also examined, but the Social Affairs Committee did not consider it necessary to present this amendment. It was noted that the Health Insurance Fund will have to deal with this task in the future. The proposal included an amendment to continue financing family doctors, but it will be reorganized a little, the whole replacement system for family doctors will be brought to the health insurance fund. The second amendment, which deleted the words 'dead person', was also retained. The Commission also took procedural decisions on 12 November. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 21 November and that the second reading be closed. However, the deadline for the third reading was also proposed, which would then be on 5 December. At its meeting on 19 November, these procedural decisions were approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U104	Dear waitress, thank you very much. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Two amendments to bill 698 have been tabled, and we will examine them together. Both have been presented by the Committee on Social Affairs and the decision is to take full account. The first amendment and the second amendment have been considered in full. The amendments to the draft have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 698. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U105	Second reading of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services and Amending the Health Insurance Act 626 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Liina Kersna, member of the Social Affairs Committee, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U106	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of how the Social Affairs Committee has gone about the interim processing of draft legislation amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Health Insurance Act. As a reminder to you, the draft proposes more effective checks on qualifications requirements for doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives when a person has obtained qualifications outside the European Union or the European Economic Area or Switzerland. Secondly, the draft amendment to the Health Insurance Act seeks to provide health insurance cover for all medical residents, regardless of the duration of their employment contract. As you can imagine, above all, when we are dealing with this draft, we have focused on the first objective. The first reading of the draft act took place in s. On 9 May 2004 and the deadline for submitting amendments, which was 23 May, was tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft eight times after its first reading: 17 and 31 May, 4 June, 24 September and 5, 12, 13 and 19 November. We asked the Estonian Association of Physicians, the Estonian Association of Hospitals, the Estonian Association of Dentists, the Estonian Association of Ambulances, the Estonian Association of Patients, the Estonian Society of Radiology, the Estonian Association of Nurses, the Tallinn University of Health Care, the University of Tartu School of Health, the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu, the Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre and the Advisers from the main groups of specialist doctors and specialist dentists Toomas Sillakivi, Vallo Volkelt, Sergei Nazarenkolt, Taavo Seedre and Andres Lehtmets. Written views or suggestions were presented by the Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Hospitals Association, the Estonian Nurses Association, the Tallinn Health Care College and the Estonian Plastics and Reconstructive Surgery Society. The main discussions took place on the proposals of the Association of Doctors and the Association of Hospitals. The motion of the Association of Doctors made it clear that before referring a doctor from third countries, or a nurse, to work placements, there should be a certificate confirming the person's proficiency in the Estonian language. The Hospital Association also made a proposal. While the original draft proposed that the State would compensate for the remuneration of the supervisor of the internship of doctors from third countries, the Hospital Association considered that these doctors could equalise the remuneration of medical doctors and also pay them the remuneration of medical residents. As a result of the discussions, the Committee on Social Affairs made up eight amendments. I will briefly talk about them. The first amendment relates to the previous draft tabled by Marko Pomerants 650, which amends the same paragraphs of the Health Services Organisation Act, which are also amended in our draft. This amendment has been tabled in order to ensure consistency between the drafts pending in parallel. Amendment 2: On the proposal of the Tallinn University of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs, the law lists the names of the health institutions responsible for coming from third countries to work here. It is not a customary practice that the law mentions the names of institutions, but we decided to support the proposal of Tallinn University of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Since this law is largely based on trust and on the fact that we want doctors and nurses from third countries to be qualified in accordance with the standards laid down in Estonia and that their knowledge is verified in a competent manner, we have decided that it is necessary to bring out the names of higher education institutions in this draft. The third amendment relates indirectly to the proposal of the Association of Doctors, which called for a match to be able to speak the Estonian language. We have proposed that both work practice and the theoretical examination should be done in Estonian. This means that we do not require proof that we know the Estonian language, but the person who goes to work placements must be able to prove to the Commission that he knows the Estonian language at the end of the work placement. This means that he will be consulted on the results of this work placement in Estonian. In the original draft it was already proposed that the theoretical examination must be in Estonian, now we say that both theory and work practice must be in Estonian. Amendment 4. We came up against the Hospital Association and, during the discussions, we agreed that doctors from third countries should be treated in the same way as medical residents. The Ministry of Social Affairs budget pays these doctors the average salary in Estonia during the work placement period and that is not why the basic hospitals of work placement need to be concerned, but why the Ministry of Social Affairs does so. The fifth amendment was the proposal of the Free Party, which also concerned the requirement to know the Estonian language. That is what we decided to support, essentially, with the third amendment we solved this problem. The sixth and seventh amendments concern the number of times a doctor or a nurse can take these examinations. If a person does not carry out work placements for the first time, i.e. does not undergo an assessment of work placements, which, I recall, will take place in Estonian, he or she may submit a new application to begin the whole process, i.e. to assess the qualification in six months' time. If a person does not perform work placements for the second time, the Health Board may refuse to re-evaluate his or her qualification or may also give him or her the opportunity to go back to work placements. If a person does not pass the theoretical examination for the first time, he or she can do it again after 6 to 12 months. If a person does not pass a theoretical examination with a positive result, he or she may submit a new application for an assessment of his or her qualifications, which means that the whole process begins again. This is what we also supported in a consensual way. Amendment 8 does not concern the main subject of this draft. On the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the number of beneficiaries of the medical start-up allowance will be extended. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the amendment provides an opportunity to apply for a wider start-up grant. For example, psychiatrists at Viljandi Hospital who have so far been deprived of this right will have the right to apply for a starting allowance for a specialist doctor, as the psychiatric service is not a compulsory service for a general hospital. This proposal was also supported by the Committee on Social Affairs in a consensual manner. Amendment 9 concerns the deadlines for the entry into force of the law. Our proposal is that the points relating to the payment of the basic allowance and to the health insurance of residents take effect from 1 January of the following year and the whole of the draft relating to changes relating to healthcare workers who have completed education in a third country will enter into force from 1 September of the following year. Procedural decisions: When the second reading is closed, the Commission proposes to send a draft to the Riigikogu plenary for the third reading by 5 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U107	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. I'll open negotiations if there's any requests. There are nine amendments to the draft, and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The same is true for the second amendment and for the third and fourth amendments. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the decision of the commission to take full account of it, including the seventh, eighth and ninth amendments, the decision of the commission is the same: to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments to the draft. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 626. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U108	Second reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. Mr. Tiina Kangro, member of the Social Affairs Committee, please. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U109	Dear Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to recall very briefly what we are dealing with in the case of Bill No 657. This draft was launched on 11 June 2018 and the first reading in this Chamber was on 18 and 19 September. The substance of the draft is broadly stated by simplifying the possibility for people to receive special care, which has so far been done in a way that psychiatrists have had to produce evidence whose content is today called into question because psychiatrists are not the right people to decide what kind of social service is needed by a person with mental illness or mental disabilities. The second point that led to the initiation of this draft was that, in the course of the restructuring of special care, there has been a contingent of people who have been residents of special care homes for long and long years, they have been targeted there before 2001, but now that they have reached or close to retirement age, the restructuring of special care has revealed that they should not have to live in a special care home or receive special care, which is more expensive than normal care. Since these people, before 2001 when they were assigned to special care homes, also received a letter of entry into the respective welfare institution or, as we say today, at least in the area of local government, there is now a situation in which these people are re-evaluated and directed to regular care. Then, according to the Social Welfare Act, the local government will be obliged to organise and pay for their care, but so far these people have received special care and received public funding. This bill regulates the situation so that the state continues to pay for these people through the Social Insurance Board, even if they continue to live in a regular nursing home. Between the two readings, we had quite in-depth and lengthy discussions on the amendments and negotiations with the associations and other representatives involved, which I will try to explain very briefly before the most important issue, i.e. the debate on the state budget. We discussed these issues on three occasions in the Committee on Social Affairs: 12, 13 and 19 November. The discussions were at times very thorough, which I personally am very pleased about; in fact, this subject received even a broader perspective than is in the draft. This, in turn, meant that some of the amendments, including those proposed by the speaker, were the result of the fact that we even took a few points out of the draft and then jointly stated with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Security Board that there were some important issues that we could not formulate very quickly in a satisfactory form in law today and that they needed to be worked on. They concerned the terminology in the field and a few more complex issues related to how to organise special care so that it is optimal in terms of public funding and the best and most flexible organisation of this service for those who need it and their families. Now I'm going to mention some of the points we discussed. I'm not going to the real details, because it's going to be too long, and if you need to ask me about them, if there's any interest, and if not today, at any other point. However, the amendments or corrections that we have made in the draft today can be divided into blocks. The first, very specific and technical block is as follows. An assessment to find out which service the recipient of a special care service needs more precisely was previously done on the proposal of psychiatrists or rehabilitation teams, will be transferred to the case organisers of the Social Insurance Board. We initially had a plan to enforce the draft from 1 January, but the Social Insurance Board, as we have already done, said that since the information systems are not coming back, they are asking to postpone the entry into force until 1 April. Unfortunately, there was no choice but to accept this proposal, because if the information system is not finished, it will not be finished. This is an unfortunate situation, but obviously and fearfully it will continue for some time. We also had the question of what is the probability that by 1 April all of this will be done, that perhaps we will postpone it to 1 July, but now we have the word of both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Security Board that during March the system will allow case managers to do this work in the Social Insurance Board. It was a technical change that has been made. Now the second issue we discussed with the service providers who made the proposals. For example, AS Hoolekandeteenused and the Board of Governors of Estonian Social Institutes had submitted wishes to simplify their work. Unfortunately, I will say in advance, after an in-depth debate, the Committee on Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Board did not agree with these proposals. For example, AS Hoolekandeteenused would have liked to simplify the procedure for the detention of persons who are subject to a court order to a closed welfare institution. Their problem is that it is very cumbersome to make contracts with those in charge of them and to obtain the voluntary contribution that comes from their disability pension or disability allowance. However, we did not consider the argument that it was cumbersome enough. It is clear that their proposal was, as if automatically, already deducted from the income paid to them every month by the Social Insurance Agency or the unemployment fund in connection with the provision of the service and directed it to the service provider. We could not accept this because special care is also provided by people who have other obligations, for example, they have children or other relatives to whom they pay a living, or maybe they have some debts before receiving the service. We still have to make sure that all the obligations on their shoulders are taken into account, so we could not meet this desire. The second topic we discussed was the proposal by the Social Security Council. The law requires that when a person moves from one social institution to another, a social institution must provide information with a person to a new institution or service provider about his or her operational capacity, needs and specific characteristics. It means such a personalized relationship. The heads of the institutions thought it was very burdensome. They found that, since the Social Insurance Board had some reports, the Social Insurance Board could distribute this information itself. Unfortunately, we could not agree to this either, because it is very important that this close personal contact is that information be handed out to a person who needs support, not that the information is on a shelf somewhere and then moves to another institution, so that the important thing may be left out at all. The third group of amendments made to the draft were minor changes which, according to the Social Insurance Board, members of the Riigikogu and also the Social Affairs Committee, needed to be made in these texts and in this area, which are being amended. They specify some points to make it more logical and safer to provide the service. I can give you an example. Special care services have also changed over time. In the past, the community housing service had standards for ten wards, so there had to be at least one code of conduct available to the ten wards. Now, in the process of reorganisation, these family homes or groups are often smaller, and if the law states that there must be one supervisor on the ten wards, and if five wards live in one apartment and five in another, and they have one supervisor, that means that one of them may be handled by the tutor, but he cannot deal with others. We specified this with the amendment, putting the word 'till' before 'ten'. They're such little nuances. I don't read them all right now because they may be a little hard to catch for people who aren't familiar with the subtleties, but in the explanatory memorandum, they're all very precisely explained. The next group of topics, which we discussed very seriously, was related to terminology, as I was referring to. The speaker raised the issue that Amendment 1 of the original draft, which was born at the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs, intended to change the terminology of the law in such a way as to change the expression currently used for one target group for special care. In essence, they are people with mental disabilities, but for many years, the Social Welfare Act has been talking about people with mental retardation. Basically, this change is not a bad idea, but I'll explain where the expression 'people with mental retardation' comes from. It comes from an international classification of diseases in which it has been expressed in this way. The Ministry of Social Affairs came up with the idea that it would be more polite if those people who belong to one of the two special welfare groups were people with mental illness, people with psychiatric illnesses, and then those who are called people with mental disabilities were called mentally retarded people. The reason for this was that it still sounds better, and if a person has an intellect disorder, maybe he's in a better mood. Personally, in my amendment, I challenged this terminological change and explained it with explanations from the Institute of the Estonian Language and other language specialists, as well as with dictionaries explaining the Estonian language, which clearly shows that there can be no such thing as an intellect disorder, because the intellect cannot be disturbed. The disorder is temporary, it is a visual disorder, a hearing disorder or a mental disorder. If there is a mental disorder, then it must and will go, it probably can be cured, in the case of mental disabilities, it is unfortunate that the intellect has been damaged, either from birth or during life because of some serious trauma or illness. But the kind of situation that the intellect is today and there isn't tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow, it's like it's not happening again. On this subject, we had very long and heated debates at several meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs, because it was a great desire, however, to make this expression more beautiful. I can also give an example that we have never had linguistic errors in the law before, but I personally think that we should avoid them as much as possible. After all, the last good example is'missing capacity for work'. A few years ago, we were so eager to avoid the word 'inability to work' or the expression 'death of work ability' that we brought into the law such a wonderful freak title. Even if a person does not have the ability to work, we would still like to say that he has the ability to work, but since it does not really exist, we call it the lack of the ability to work. 'Intellect disorder' would be about the same category. But the end of the good, all good, in the sense that the replacement of this so-called ill-sounding expression'spiritual underdevelopment', although, in essence, it is an accurate delay, however, now, on the grounds that the Ministry is trying to deal with terminology in a complex way for some time and then to come back to the amendment of the law. The end was that the Ministry agreed to take out this first proposal at all and the Committee on Social Affairs agreed to it. So, for the time being, that change has been canceled. We hope that this will go on and that there will be people who will be able to deal with the issue in a comprehensive manner after a while. That's what I'm done with right now. If you have any questions, ask. Our Commission's decision was to send the draft to second reading today, that is, 21 November (this decision was consensual) and to conclude the second reading as well, and, if this is confirmed in the Chamber, to go to third reading on 5 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U110	The first question is from Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U111	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Since this part of terminology was so intriguing, I'm asking or discussing it. After all, the names of bad things collect such a negative meaning, for a time they collect it, and then they find it good to replace them. This circle can last forever and can indeed come into use with false expressions, such as the same "intelligence disorder." But please tell me whether the Institute of the Estonian Language is consulted on such matters or whether specialised people are consulted. Did the Commission have any such views at its disposal? Maybe even look in Wiedemann's and Saareste's dictionaries to look for something old?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U112	Yeah! This question was dealt with very thoroughly by the people of the Estonian Language Institute. We have their written explanations, suggestions, justifications and references, and on this basis I have tabled this amendment. This material has all been at the disposal of the Commission, it has been taken into account, it was very well founded, we also had comparisons with foreign terminology, etc. So this material was all there when we held these discussions and made a decision. I would also like to point out that, at the first meeting where we discussed it, the representatives of the ministry were completely opposed and remained true to themselves, but when we discussed it again in a few weeks' time, they had also worked among themselves and came to the conclusion that it was better to deal with this subject in a very responsible and thorough manner. That's where the decision was made that we won't change it in a hurry. I also had alternatives offered in cooperation with the Institute of the Estonian Language, which could be a better-sounding expression in today's world for a person with mental underdevelopment, which would still be a formal and essentially precise term. According to the Estonian Language Institute, these options are two: first, a person with mental disabilities, second, a person with intellectual disabilities. Although 'intellikt' is also a foreign word, it is so rooted in Estonian that the Institute of the Estonian Language believes that'spirit disability' and 'intellectual disability' are both perfectly acceptable variants. But with regard to the word 'intellect disorder', they were entirely in agreement with us in a meaningful way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U113	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress Tiina Kangro! You have made a comprehensive and substantive review at second reading. But there are a lot of formal and also terminological topics above. My question is: what will change in quality for the people who need these services and for their loved ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U115	Right. All of this was discussed at first reading. I did not repeat this now, but I can briefly say that, in the overwhelming sense of the whole thing, it was precisely that these people, with mental disorders and mental disabilities, with deep, severe and lasting disorders or with disabilities, would have a slightly more reasonable and humane procedure for receiving the service. Last time, we discussed at length that in the current system it is the case that, if a person obviously needs special care services, there are about seven of these services and no party doubting that this person belongs to the target group and needs this service, instead of taking the decision that this person is going to receive this service, that person or his family members must run along psychiatrists with him. Sometimes it can take time for you to get a number and until you get a doctor, you know, half a year to eternity. Then it turns out that this doctor has nothing to say to you. Let's take people with mental disabilities: they don't have to see a psychiatrist regularly, some of them haven't been to a psychiatrist in their lives, and they don't need to go there if they don't have a mental disorder, they just have a mental disability, which makes them unfulfilled. In the current law, a person must bring a certificate from a psychiatrist, which means that in the last trouble this mother will have to go to a private psychiatrist for 50 or 80 euros and then the psychiatrist will ask what they want from her. Mother says please, in God's name, let the evidence that this child, 28 years old, needs special care. The psychiatrist sits behind the computer and writes a certificate. It was such a simplified example. Now it is as if the idea is that, when it is clear that a person needs this service, the Social Insurance Board, on the basis of documents and, if necessary, on the basis of a meeting with a person, will make this decision in a narrower professional group. Everyone understands what this is about, all it takes is to choose what is the right service, because not everyone needs a 24/7 service, some need a day service, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U116	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much. I'll open negotiations if I have a call to make. It's not there. There are 11 amendments to the draft. Let's go through them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The same applies to the second and third amendments; the decision of the commission is to take full account of them. The fourth amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Tiina Kangro, the decision of the commission is to take full account. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the decision of the commission is disregarded; unfortunately, the proposal is not voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the decision of the commission is to disregard the same reason as was just mentioned. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the decision of the commission is to take full account. The ninth amendment has been tabled by Tiina Kangro, member of the Riigikogu, and the decision of the commission is not taken into account. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. Eleventh amendment has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the decision of the commission is to take part in the consideration. The amendments to the draft have been examined, and the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 657. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U117	Honourable Riigikogu, following today's agenda, or let us be honest about this, the next item of the evening. This is the second reading of 700 SE draft State Budget Act 2019 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Finance Committee to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U118	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit, after such a brilliant speech as Tiina Kangro, it must be kind of hard for me to talk here right now, but I'm trying. Between the first and second readings, the Commission has discussed the draft state budget five times. And now, in turn. The first meeting was on 22 October, to which Raul Eamets, Chairman of the Fiscal Council, had been invited. He concluded that the macroeconomic forecast describes the outlook for economic growth and inflation in Estonia with sufficient credibility and is in line with other forecasts prepared at the same time. It was expressed that the change in the forecast between budget execution and forecast disclosure could not be accepted. It was claimed that this practice had never existed before. Mr Eamets explained that the Board is not competent to respond to this criticism, and the Board gives an opinion on the economic forecast. So, at the next two meetings, held on 23 October and 5 November, there were four ministers in the Commission, one after the other. First, the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Rene Tammis, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, spoke about funds for EAS, national programmes for entrepreneurship, tourism, the Structural Fund for Entrepreneurship, support for product development, KredEx funds, ICT development programme and housing measures. After that, there was a brief discussion. They wanted to know how sustainable the new product and technology development programme is. According to the Minister, the measure is spread over the years 2018 to 2020 and is not a euro grant. Eesti Post was asked about the need for support and the possible amount required. It was answered that the amount needed would be specified in the coming days. Unfortunately, I don't have that information for now. There was also an interest in Estonian Post's concentration and what the mail is mainly concerned with. The answer was that about 90% of the volume of work relates to the delivery of parcels, i.e. online trade. They asked what plan the country had in terms of renovation of the city hall. According to the Minister, the project is developed by the city of Tallinn, and the interest of the state is to have a conference centre there. The next minister was Mr Siim Kisler, Minister of the Environment. He came up with budget revenue, expenditure and investments. He spoke about programmes in his field, whose topics include clean drinking water and good standing surface water and groundwater, the Estonian living environment and its biodiversity, the energy and resource efficiency of companies, etc. They asked what happened to the conservation of Paldiski's radioactive waste. The State had to start its liquidation in 2017. The answer was that EUR 5 million has been allocated from the performance reserve for environmental research. So there will be a study that can be considered as part of this work. A question was asked about the management of Vaivara waste plant waste and the lack of space. The answer was that in previous years, money has been requested from the state budget as an additional request but has not been received in order to improve the situation. However, solutions have been found, using the budget resources of the Environment Agency. The next minister was Sven Mikser. He told us about developments in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, new representations, cyber and digital diplomacy and the strengthening of representation in the major cities of Europe. He was consulted about the opening of a representative office in the United Arab Emirates and was also asked about the representative building purchased in Italy. According to the Minister, at the end of last year there was an opportunity to buy a building suitable for Estonia, which is in good condition and has a good room solution. Design work is currently underway, renovation is planned to begin in early 2019. Development assistance was asked about the countries of destination. The answer was that it continued to support the humanitarian assistance of internally displaced persons caused by the military conflict in Eastern Ukraine and to alleviate the humanitarian situation of the refugee crisis. Finally, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Government of the Republic, came before us. He briefly presented his ministry's budget and pointed out in particular the growth of the payroll fund. It's the same for everyone: plus 2.5%. An easy discussion was about the Estonian Family Foundation. In particular, they asked about the million euros that were allocated to the Estonian Family Foundation. The Minister explained that the establishment of an implementing unit is necessary to implement the fundamentals of Estonian population policy until 2035 as well as to monitor population processes. The leaders of the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families and the Estonian Women's Association and representatives of the Estonian Academy of Sciences are to be included in the foundation board. Reinsalu was on the Commission on 5 November, the first three of whom I spoke of on 23 October. In addition to Urmas Reinsalu, Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson and other representatives of the bank were invited on 5 November. Mr Hansson presented the economic situation in the world and the euro area. Deputy Governor of Eesti Pank Ülo Kaasik gave an overview of the state of the Estonian economy; Vice-President Madis Müller spoke about financial stability. It was asked whether the customs tariff war between the US and China could affect the Estonian economy. The answer was that there is no direct connection, but everything that is happening in the world can affect us. We're in this chain, too. The question was asked about mortgage claims, including the setting of a limit on the amount of loans granted by banks and the security ratio. The answer was that the loan-to-collateral ratio is limited to 85%, whereas the limit for loans granted with KredEx guarantee is 90%. An opinion was requested on public finances: whether the decision not to raise funds was justified. It was said that it was good that the government had put forward a balanced budget and that part of the buffer was also capable of responding if necessary. As far as buffers are concerned, it is always good to have buffers, but collecting money into buffers brings costs at the current interest rate level, so a reasonable balance must be found. Next, I would like to talk about the fourth meeting of the Commission, which took place on 6 November. The Commission then examined the amendment drawn up by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It consists of 21 points summarised in one amendment. Kaie Koskaru-Nelk, Deputy Chancellor of Budget Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and Regina Vällik, Adviser to the State Budget Department, were also present. As I said, there are 21 points. The tenth amendment interested whether the project was a so-called state-owned rental house, which is planned to be reduced. A representative of the Ministry stated that the specified reply would be submitted in writing. And the answer is that, yes, the KredEx programme on supporting investments in the municipal housing fund is the so-called "rent houses" project. There was also an interest, owned by the great church of Narva Aleksandr. They said it's state-owned right now. A week before that, on 31 October, the deadline for tabling amendments expired. By this time, a total of 60 amendments had been received from the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups. We dealt with them in a regular meeting on 13 November. We checked them all out. As the three amendments had been withdrawn by the initiators during the debate, we are now talking about 57 + 1 or 58 amendments. Regina Field, the Ministry of Finance, was present. The opinion of the Government of the Republic was given on each amendment. Probably for the first time, I'm very well equipped with documents before you right now. I have the opinion of the Government of the Republic on every amendment. It is a request that, if you want to know anything, please state the number of the proposal, you have a table definitely there, the numbers 1 to 58, then I can argue with you about the government's opinion. 57 amendments were not supported. The committee meeting ended with the decision to propose a draft to the Riigikogu Board on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 21 November and the second reading to be completed. The deadline for amendments could be Thursday 29 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U119	There are questions for the waitress. Like Aivar Sõerdil. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U120	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! If we take apart this year's state budget text, we will see that expenditure is 251 million more than revenue, but the government has told us that the budget is in surplus. How can that be? I also asked that in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but I have to admit that I did not receive an answer. The answer was something that the Ministry of Finance would make a budget with a minus, then send it to Statistics, there it would be processed for two weeks, and there would be a budget with a small nominal plus. I'm asking you, what was going on at Statistics? I understand they make accounting adjustments and entries, but how does that happen? Instead, it was said that the 2017 report would be reviewed. Accounting entries can also be described financially and described in substance. Why isn't that information in the explanatory memorandum? And how do you explain that if the costs are higher than the revenues, how can there be a budget surplus?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U121	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will explain exactly what was explained in response to you in the Commission. There are certain accounting rules, and not always the results that they give us doesn't make sense to us. As for the fact that the budget is being sent to the Statistical Office for processing, yes, we had a discussion on this in the Commission. But it was not during the budget debate; it was during the debate on the summary report. And we agreed that we would draw up a question on this issue and, on 3 December, the person or persons should come to the Commission to explain it to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U122	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U123	Thank you. Did the Commission mention that government policy is a reduction in local government funding? I mean, above all, local roads? Kadri Simson went to the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu to show these figures and it was quite a surprise that the words are very big friends of local governments, but the reality is that the amount that local governments are going to get for road repair and investment falls. And it's falling quite significantly. And the only explanation was that this is due to a reduction in European money. What is this, a strategy? We are not at all ready for the time when European Union investment will fall. Let's just say someone's guilty somewhere in Brussels, and that's the way it's gonna be. Perhaps we should recreate these instruments or prepare for this reduction strategy in a different way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U124	Thank you for your question. I very much hope that the representatives of this and of any other government will always speak the way things are. And if the cut is linked to a reduction in euro funding, they will say so. But if you answer your direct question, which was given about seven or eight seconds, the answer is that we did not discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U125	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. First of all, I am sorry about the mistake that has been made in our amendment. Of course, the number of doctoral students in Estonia is not more than 2000, but 426. But I'm asking about an increase in doctoral student support. The Commission has now rejected this proposal. But now that we have listened to the speeches by representatives of different spheres of life in the debate on a crucial national issue, it is clear that everyone needs scientific proof. How do you move forward with doctoral student support? Was that discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U127	Thank you. Yeah, it was discussed. But first of all, I have to say that I am not the person to whom I have to apologize. We are equal in our rights, and no factual error is such a thing as to apologize for. As far as PhD students are concerned, the following information remained in the discussion of your amendment. R &amp; D expenditure in the area of government of the Ministry of Education and Research increased nominally by 8 million euros in 2017, by 13.9 million euros this year, and the planned increase next year is 13.3 million euros. There are also provisions for the activities of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, such as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Social Affairs, etc. The Government of the Republic has set itself the objective of keeping R &amp; D expenditure as a percentage of GDP at the level of 2017, i.e. 0.81%. We talked about doctoral grant in the Commission. Further questions were also asked about how this has changed recently. It increased by 10% over the long term in 2015: EUR 383 in 2014 and EUR 422 in 2015. By decision of the Government of the Republic, doctoral student support increased from EUR 422 to EUR 660 since that year. Of course, this is not enough and it would need to be increased further. But the Government of the Republic must decide, just as we must at some point, where the use of large resources is appropriate. I repeat once again: GDP is increasing, all figures are increasing. The objective of keeping funding at a level of 0.81% is likely to have been achieved, but the increase in doctoral student support is well beyond that. So your concern is understandable, but this explanation came from a representative of the Government of the Republic on the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U128	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U129	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! I am interested in Amendment 18 concerning the provision of additional tools to the prosecutor's office to create digital job opportunities. This is a substantive proposal that would improve and embodi our image as an e-governance. It has also been pointed out more and more by both the opposition and the coalition's ambassadors that our procedural deadlines are not very reasonable in the investigation of cases. The prosecutor's office has proposed a very clear solution: IT solutions should be developed that would give the court, the PBA, the prosecutor's office and other authorities the opportunity to use coherent, fast, mobile, paperless management, as well as e-proofing. What were the Commission's arguments that it would not help to solve these real problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U130	On this proposal, the criticism, rather than criticism, but the argument was such that the Office of the Prosecutor's Office has a budget of EUR 14,4 million in 2019; the budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office was allocated EUR 0,3 million in the 2019/2022 process to increase the capacity to deal with priority crimes, including cybercrime. But a little bit more material we have on this, and I think it's a serious one, that the source of the cover just didn't fit in any way. This was offered at the expense of the State Chancellery. The representative of the Government of the Republic noted that the State Chancellery has a staff and management cost of EUR 8.17 million in 2019 without a specific purpose. The rest of the budget is related to a specific purpose and cannot be diverted elsewhere. The expenditure of the State Chancellery is planned to be used for the activities already planned for the next financial year, with a reduction in the costs of the activities that have not been carried out as the budget is decreasing. I would like to say in advance here that the same recital has been put forward and a negative position has also been taken on some other amendment, where either you or your groupmates have proposed the same article as a cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U131	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U132	Good chairman of the sitting! Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The aim of the Estonian strategy for R &amp; D and innovation is to increase public R &amp; D funding to 1% of GDP by 2020. The target of 1% of GDP for next year has, by the way, been set out in the country's budgetary strategy approved by the government in spring. According to the current bill, we are far from that. And somehow, the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not take into account the proposal of the Reform Party Group to increase the R &amp; D &amp; I programme spending instead of building rental housing. Can you explain on which grounds the Committee on Monetary Affairs made such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U133	Thank you. I cannot comment now on what you said about that 1%. I mean, if this is what the strategy envisages from 2020 onwards, then maybe next year will be progressing. But yes, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the aim of keeping it at 0.81%, that is, a level that has been a year before. As far as rental homes are concerned, we dealt with this issue separately. Sorry, I cannot find a specific place in the text at the moment, where it is mentioned, but during the debate, the thoughts were made that we will increase the contribution of the Estonian population to the work, give people new opportunities if we have a set of municipal buildings in local governments. They do not go on at the moment, and certain amounts will be allocated to address this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U134	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U135	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! We now have a situation where the Committee on Monetary Affairs has for almost a year been holding up the draft proposed by the Reform Party, which aims to put an end to the unfair taxation of working pensioners imposed by your coalition. And about a year ago, and actually still in February this year, you gave the public a beautiful misleading signal as if you had a plan to reverse this unfair system and put an end to the current situation. We also proposed changes to the state budget, but this has not been supported. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U136	Thank you for your question. Every time there is a debate on what I have said a year ago or two years ago or ten years ago, I would certainly like to have more time to think about than I am now being allowed to think about. I mean, whether one or the other draft comes to one or the other solution, the Riigikogu commission alone does not decide. This is decided by the coalition, or the Government of the Republic, with us. So it's probably just not an objective. As for the signals, unfortunately, I don't remember saying anything like that. But I'll check it out, and you'll help me find the likely sources.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U137	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! On 8 November, the European Commission's forecast came out, which says that our budget for next year will have a structural deficit of 0.7% of GDP. Jüri Ratas here tells us that the budget is balanced, but the European Commission's estimates are taken into account in the European Union's budgetary process. Today at noon, the European Commission's assessment of our budget also came, and the European Commission has reservations about Estonia's budget for next year. When we look at the grouping of countries, we are in this group, which has a broadly compliant budget, but also has reproaches. For example, even the Greek budget is considered better by the Commission than ours, let alone the Finnish budget. How do you comment on the European Commission's criticisms of Estonia's budgetary plan for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U139	Thank you. You said that at the beginning of November the deficit was forecast at 0.7%. It's been two weeks. If you had referred to this in just one word in the Commission, we would certainly have dealt with this matter. However, as regards today's and Brussels's assessment on 21 November 2018, yes, there is a document called 'Autumn package for the European Semester: boosting inclusive and sustainable growth'. I find it difficult to understand your complaint, as Italy, which is receiving great criticism, has been specifically mentioned here, and has ten Member States - Germany, Ireland, Greece, Cyprus, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Austria, Finland - which have been said to be in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact in 2019. And the next group: after the best, we will be next together with Latvia and Slovakia. We are said to be broadly in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact in 2019. The implementation of these plans may lead to this, and I read precisely from the text that there is some deviation from the medium-term budgetary objective or from the adjustment path required to achieve it. This could be the situation. I'd say it's not a criticism, it's an observation. And in this peculiar rating, however, we are in 11th place, not among the worst. The worst are the other countries. Italy, Hungary and Romania are being criticised separately, but with the shortcomings that they and Greece have, we have nothing to do with. So I find it hard, frankly, to understand this complaint, all the more so because I have the specific news here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U140	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. The Reform Party Group has proposed another amendment to the state budget. This concerns the transition to a single education in Estonian, which should be started in kindergarten and immediately. Its price is estimated at EUR 5 million. This is not a very large amount of money compared to other spending points in this coalition budget. For some reason, this proposal was not supported. You are an Estonian philologist yourself; your heart should have ticked with this proposal in its entirety. What was the explanation why it wasn't supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U142	Thank you. Still ticking. There's more to it. It's probably some kind of curse, but every time I come to this remote control for a long time, sooner or later we start talking about Estonian. Even if it's a state budget. I have already spoken on this subject several times, I have explained this. We've been running this line for 20 years. This is because, 20 and 25 years ago, the smartest people in the language field, I am not talking about myself, they are old professors, the old school has said that there is a need to start in kindergarten. And we've been saying that, too. When I worked at the language centre for ten years, there were no ministers, no officials or members of the Riigikogu who would not have heard the same thing when we were visiting and asking about problems that we needed a methodology. This means that, in order to employ 400 people, just as many teachers are needed for kindergartens, the assessment in this hall requires a solid methodology. Every child, no matter where he or she lives in Tallinn, Valga or Narva, must receive language training according to the program, but someone must do it. It is not possible that 400 teachers will each prepare their own program. I mean, we need a methodology. But it's not. Secondly, there is the need for teaching tools. We've been talking about this for a quarter of a century about the need for teaching tools for kindergartens. But there's always a glitch. I don't know, sometimes I get the idea that there's some kind of mob who's interested in not doing it. It wasn't under your leadership, under the leadership of the Reform Party, during your reign. And, unfortunately, I have to admit that this is not happening when our party is represented by the Minister of Education and Science. Still nothing has changed. And the third need is a frame, no matter what we see. If you're talking about any Estonian being a teacher, I'm sorry, I don't believe it. Knowing the state of Estonian language teachers and Estonian philology at all, I cannot imagine where these specialists will be taken out, where they will be enchanted. Will those teachers who have been dismissed from school because of one problem or another help? Where do they come from, those 400 people? They need to be trained. But if you tell me the number of this amendment, I will read you the official explanation that came from it, but, as I understand it, there was more desire to offend me. And for the thousandth time, I explained what I was thinking about these things. I've been saying that here since 1999.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U143	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U144	Thank you. I want to go on with the local government. It is a pity that you did not discuss in the Commission that road money is going down. The local government leaders also say that MKM still wants to impose road maintenance on them without providing funds. But I would like to come to the roofing money that the government and the coalition want to distribute in unprecedented amounts to the members of their party, so that the government and political parties remain. At the same time, we have 11 national regional programmes whose budgets do not increase. We have a fine-tuning fund waiting for money. Municipalities get money from it on the basis of the system, the methodology. You just said nicely that the methodology is important. From the Equalisation Fund, municipalities receive money according to need, not according to party relationships. Why didn't you support the Reform Party's proposal to increase the compensatory fund at the expense of these roofies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U145	Thank you. Once again, please state the number of the amendment. [[A voice from the hall.]] It is not the responsibility of the chairman of the committee to carry out 58 numbers, remembering by whom which amounts etc. The chairman of the committee will prepare the materials, he will be in front of you with these materials. He's your colleague, by the way. We're equal here. [[A voice from the hall.]] Is it really difficult to say the number when you talk about a specific amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U146	Let me remind you that everyone has the opportunity to ask two oral questions. Arto Aas has already asked two questions. However, I am sure that some of my fellow Members may also ask and say the numbers of these amendments in doing so. Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U147	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I will continue with the same question that my colleague has just asked. I think that the Estonian people, too, are disturbed by the fact that 27 million will be distributed at the discretion of the parties. I ask about my amendments. You asked for numbers: Amendments 21, 23 and 24. Do you think it is right that the Ministry of Justice allocates a million euros to the non-existent foundation of the Estonian Family and gives 100,000 euros to the former forest brothers' non-profit association? Former forest brothers are mostly dead.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U148	Thank you. So... [[Browse papers.]] The decision on your proposals is summarised here and reads as follows: in 2017, EUR 1.98 million of operating grants were awarded to the Russian Theatre, EUR 2.1 million in 2018 and EUR 2.2 million in 2019. Growth compared to 2018 is €0.1 million. The increase is linked to the increase in the wages of cultural workers. In 2018, EUR 0.1 million was allocated to the Russian Theatre from the internal reserves of the Ministry of Culture. The amount of the operating grant is based on the number of new productions and repertoire performances and visitors. The decision will be taken by the Commission, with the involvement of sectoral experts and ministerial councillors in the field of performing arts. And to continue with that, Amendment 24: the coalition agreement provided the Ministry of Culture with a budget of EUR 2 million for the creation of language houses. Language houses will be opened in Tallinn and Narva in 2019. This measure will increase the opportunities for adults to learn the Estonian language and should also improve its effectiveness. One of the aims of the Estonian language houses is to provide diverse language learning. But the topic of the forest brothers was certainly not discussed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U149	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Chairman of the Commission. My question is a little more general, but it relates to Amendment 2. Why do the Government of the Republic, and in particular your Chair of the Monetary Commission, continue to tolerate the proliferation of border trade? The money we are losing there is in the order of EUR 200 million. You are not actually taking any steps to reduce border trade. The fact that you simply do not increase the additional excise duty is not the solution to the problem. If you don't lower those excises, there's no change for the better. Why are you tolerating it? Indeed, this amount is in the order of EUR 200 million if we sum up the excise duty on fuel and alcohol and the VAT that we are losing. With this money, half of Tallinn's highways could be built into four lines in one year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U151	Thank you. As far as border trade is concerned, the Ministry of Finance says that Latvia's border trade started as early as 2015 when the excise duties on strong alcohol began to differ. It is considered that the restoration of excise duties in force before July 2017 would not achieve a significant reduction in border trade. The Association of Alcohol Producers and Groundbreakers has also stated that it does not support excise cuts which do not have a decisive impact on border trade. One major reason for the development of border trade has been the high profit margins and fixed costs of Estonian shops, which exceed those of shops on the other side of the border with Latvia. It has been assumed that all Estonian retail chains are willing to apply a lower mark-up so that the buyers of alcohol would come to Estonian stores instead of going to the Latvian border. But we cannot take such a conventional assumption into account when drawing up our forecasts. Analysis of the fall in consumption taxes carried out in other countries also shows that the fall in taxes does not result in a significant fall in prices or is short-term. For my part, I add that a round table was held here in the Riigikogu a little over a year ago, where we were just discussing border trade. There were quite a number of actors represented, including small shops and large chains. At one point, a rather piquant situation arose, as a small shop representative began to attack large chains. The number of small shops, they are in Tallinn, in Narva or on the southern border, has been decreasing for a very long time. It's been going on for years. And the reason is not just excise duties and VAT. The question is that a small shop cannot actually compete with a large chain, or it is very difficult for it to compete. I used to talk about this remote control that there were three small shops within a half-mile radius in the place where I live right now. And in Mustamäe, here in Tallinn, where my mother lives, four shops were just as far away from her house. None of them have been left for a long time, and there's nothing to do with excise duty or taxes. It's about competition. They will not be able to compete with the prices and services offered by the large chain. So a little bit harder is the problem. It's not enough to restore the excise duty we used to have, and we're gonna be fine. By the way, as far as these amounts are concerned, including this 200 million, we should at some time hold a round table here in the Riigikogu, and not in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but for all members of the Riigikogu, because as many as there are people, so many figures are called. Looks like it's a matter of taste, I've heard 500 million mention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U152	Mati Raidma.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U153	Thank you very much. Good waitress! My question concerns proposal No 37 - the creation of the eastern border. At first reading, I also asked the Minister of Finance a question on this issue. He said the coalition's priority is the limit, but the budget numbers are shrinking to build the border. However, when I look at the Committee on Monetary Affairs' proposal No 1 and its points 16, 17, 18, 19, I see that you have found ways of granting additional funding to various areas of the Ministry of the Interior. For example, there is a large church in Narva, etc. Is there a common position in the coalition that the eastern border is not a priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U154	Thank you. It's... No, I'd rather not tell you what it is, because the last time I got pissed off here, you went to the Riigikogu board to complain that I've been acting like a very bad boy. Today I will give you a polite answer on this matter. Resources for the construction of the eastern border have been planned for 2019 according to building capacity. The preliminary timetable was not yet completed, but now it is possible to plan the budget more accurately. Based on today's knowledge given by the test sections, it is not possible to build the eastern border according to the original timetable. That is the opinion of the responsible ministries. It is generally understood that nine women do not give birth to you in one month, but some do not understand. This objective cannot be achieved simply by increasing funding. Those who do this claim it first.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U155	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U156	Thank you. I even thought I wasn't gonna ask you about the border, but I'm gonna have to do a little bit of tuning or adjusting you. In my opinion, your opinion that there will be no further construction is not correct. The Police and Border Guard Board was given a number of money: you see, there's so much and you can do it. There are so many different components involved in the construction of the border. Surely it would be possible to buy something even in advance next year. It is about attitude and prioritisation, so the government's priority is not to build the eastern border. We wanted to do it. But let me ask you a more general question. I also looked at the European Commission's assessment of our budget plan, which was published today. Aivar Sõerd has already asked this question, but what do you think the European Commission is accusing us of being not in the first group, but in the second group? And why is it that, when we look at the first 16 lines of the budget, we see that the budget is in deficit with more than EUR 200 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U157	The complaint is that it could lead to something bad. That's a pretty good assumption. This may happen in the medium term, although there are currently no complaints from either Eesti Pank or the fiscal council. So this could lead to something, and we'll take note of it, but hopefully we can do everything we can to make sure that the bad scenario doesn't work out. Now from the border. I do not know, however, I must draw on this opinion, which remained in the Commission, where everything that has been stated is recorded and recorded until the end of its composition. That was said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and those people who said it should be responsible for their words. They said it wasn't possible to carry out the initial plan. If you want to build a building, I don't know, some villa that costs $10 million, you won't build it in one week, even if you get $30 million. It's not possible, it just isn't! Returning to your introductory words, which sounded at the beginning, I must point out that we cannot have common convictions and understandings on all matters. We have different backgrounds, we have different education, we read different books, we watch different movies, we're just, like all people, different. If you can find consensus on a matter in your group, I respect that opinion, but I may not be able to agree with that. Don't just try to smear it on!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U158	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U159	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! I will put forward a follow-up question on my first amendment, number 18. You have identified the reasons why the prosecutor's office has a budget of over 14 million and they have already received an x-number of IT developments. Please, would you help a member of the Riigikogu and show specifically in the budget where we read such information here? I looked at pages 5 and 6 of the Ministry of Justice's administration, but there's no such detailed reference to how one or the other state money is spent in institutions. Therefore, I do not understand the role of a member of the Riigikogu in the processing of the state budget. This information cannot be seen, yet the Commission says that we cannot accept your amendment because you do not think the source is right. How can I offer other sources of cover if I don't have enough information?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U160	Thank you for a very good question. You're giving me an opportunity to talk about the budget as a document that gives quite little information to anyone who reads it. I have to agree to this, and I said it before I became chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control for six years. We have produced a report on this. Kristjan Kõljalg did a great job at the time, and for several months people were interviewed. And it turned out that the absolute majority of the members of the Riigikogu would avoid the word 'all', but the absolute majority of the members of the Riigikogu are not satisfied with what the state budget looks like. At the same time, I have experience with the national budgets for 1999, 2000 and the next few years. You may have been a person who hasn't seen a budget other than the annual budget of a small town on four pages with an explanatory statement, but you took the state budget and it turned out that you know where the money is going specifically. I like the summation in rows, columns, etc. You know where the money goes, it's all written. Where's it gone? We have raised this issue in the special committee; we have talked about this in many ways in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And I'd say, as far as the story goes, it's too big to call it some kind of political, I don't know, inheritance. I see that we in the Committee on Monetary Affairs do not currently have a contradiction on this issue. The form of the state budget is not satisfied either by those who deal with it by the coalition or by those who are in opposition. And what pleases me most: the same complaints are made by colleagues from the Reform Party Group. We have rather long and interesting procedures behind us on this subject. And I think the next Riigikogu, when it has come together, will talk exactly the same thing, whether it is coalition or opposition members and these people have been here before or whether they are new people. We should take serious steps all together, not hoping that one side or the other will do it. Sometimes it's better to go back to what was 20 years ago than try to fix what is now. Life has shown that 20 years ago some things were better, and the state budget was better. And so does the National Audit Office, who showed us the national budget of 1938 as a model document in which everything is readable and everything is understandable. So I can't answer your question. You can ask a thousand such questions about this state budget, especially those budgeted on the basis of which nothing can be read. So I'm asking that the next composition right from the start, knowing that sooner or later this problem will arise, do something about it. It's a big headache for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U161	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stalnukhin! I actually have a recipe for how to get this information. This information can be obtained in such a way that the Riigikogu does not process a budget that cannot be read. And that depends primarily on the coalition ambassadors, headed by you, who are chairing the Riigikogu Finance Committee. Indeed, in today's discussion at the National Reform Foundation, I think both the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General pointed out that substitution activities not related to the main functions of the state must be terminated. But we cannot close these institutions unless we see them in the budget. This is a rhetorical question, but tell me: why have these steps not been taken? However, it is in the hands of the Riigikogu itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U163	Thank you. Well, what's to say here, good advice! But if it came from a pure heart, you would have offered it when these misunderstandings arose. I have to say that I had a serious break in Parliament's work, but according to my memory, it was during the 2005-2011 period, in this six-year period, that there was a change that has made the state budget unreadable. But when I came back here, it was up to you. Just as it was now very difficult to understand the budget and then you could have used this recipe. I don't want any trouble right now, I don't want to start explaining what we have to do, what you had to do. I am simply saying that the members of the Riigikogu will speak exactly the same story sooner or later in the next composition. We need to let them know it's coming. This is definitely coming, and already next year, I don't know, in April or May, we should start working to get back to the old uniform. However, I say that the recommendation not to adopt the draft budget is not credible. I do not think there will be people in this Chamber who do not understand the negative consequences of this if the state budget for one year or another is not adopted on time. This means that all processes that are financed from the state budget will be stopped. This concerns, for example, design, investment, etc. Wage increases in the public sector, affecting 150,000 people, etc., will be halted. During the day, several journalists asked me if there was a risk that it would be sent to the state budget for a long time. This danger exists because there are always political interests involved. And now it becomes clear whether or not narrow political interests are more important than the interests of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U164	Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U165	Thank you. I'm trying to ask in my nonexistent voice, and then I'm going to chair the hearing. My question concerns Amendment 38 and this is about the oldest stone building in Estonia, the Pöide Church. Didn't you find EUR 60000 for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U166	So, a clear amendment to the Urve Tiidus, as I understand it. The Fortress Church of Pöide Village? The explanation given by the Ministry of Finance to this proposal is this. The 2019 budget supports the renovation of the Jõgeva Church of 400000, the interior works of the Narva Alexander Major Church of 200000, the renovation of the Tori Estonian Warrior Church of 100000 and the renovation of the Kärdla Church of 100000 euros. I mean, the representative of the Ministry of Finance every time one object or another came up, the fort church proposed by Urve Tiidus is not the only one, the Free Party proposed about 15 objects, stating that there is a certain order of objects. This sequence is decided by experts and the distribution of this money is quite open. So, I don't know, maybe in the next round you'll find a way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U167	Ladies and gentlemen, Andres Tarand, with approximately the same vocal material, managed the Estonian government successfully for some time. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am seriously interested in what kind of journalist asked you in such a way that you are trying to put the budget on the ground today. But okay, that's not the content of my question. My question concerns the 48th amendment, which is, of course, made by the Reform Party. I wonder why the Commission did not support this proposal. I do not care why the Ministry of Finance does not support it, but why the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support this proposal concerning the doubling of the allowance for pensioners living alone. Both the Centre Party and the Social Democrats have always said that pensioners must be supported. You're even giving money to some fund that hasn't even been created yet, but the weakest, the poorest, most difficult people you can't support. Ten million is not so much money that it has not been found in this large budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U169	Thank you. Yes, once again, the number, the fruit, please! [[The fruit of Thomas says something about the hall.]] Right, of course, of course! The Ministry of Finance did not support the proposal and the reasons for it were also stated. Roads and public transport are an agreement of the government coalition, according to which it is considered important to reduce the transport costs of Estonian households in order to raise the standard of living of people as a whole, to promote the preservation of jobs and employment in the outlying areas of Estonia as well. This is also the way to avoid further marginalisation, which is certainly also the common desire of the opposition. As an accompanying effect, this measure promotes the use of public transport and the limitation of growth in car transport, which ultimately means a cleaner environment, fewer road accidents and a reduction in total expenditure for society at all. The socio-economic impact of this measure on society is significantly higher than the additional subsidy from the state budget. So that is the justification that sounded in the Commission and after which we voted. But when it comes to the question of who said that about journalists, it is likely that no one expressed himself in this way. I summed up their questions, which sounded at least three times and in different languages. But, Vilya, you know that I am not Estonian and I have great problems with the Estonian language. I told you, after Mrs. Kangro, I probably can't compete with you here. You're always so polite, you never call anybody names, you don't use Russian obscenes in words, and so on. For God's sake, none of you are! I sincerely respect you for that, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U170	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Please calm me down! Did I hear correctly that the budget assessment from the European Commission for Greece is better than for the Republic of Estonia? Tell me I heard wrong! Is Estonia part of this group with certain reproaches, but there are no reproaches for the Greek state's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U172	No, no, no! Thank you for your question. I really need to calm you down. Ten countries are impeccable; their budgets are in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. I don't think I'm going to read them anymore, there is no Greece. We are the next three and the last three are Italy, Hungary and Romania. However, Greece has been specifically highlighted in further detail. Well, I can read to you too. (Shoulds with papers.) Where was he here? So, I mean, there is a separate report on Greece separately! And that's a separate paragraph of the news that came to us today. It's a very short text, I'm going to read it out so everyone can understand. "The Commission adopted the first report on Greece on the basis of the enhanced surveillance framework established after the completion of the macroeconomic adjustment programme for the European Stability Mechanism on 20 August 2018. The report concludes that Greece's Draft Budgetary Plan for 2019 is in line with its commitment to a primary surplus of 3,5% of GDP. In other areas, it was found that the implementation of reforms has been uneven and that the authorities need to speed up their implementation in order to achieve their objectives. " Maybe then he will lag behind and the implementation of reforms will be uneven. As I understand it, your interest in the subject ended, so I'm not going to keep reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U173	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U174	Thank you. We're out of time, but we're not interested. I can read to you that Germany, Ireland and then Greece are at the head of ten impeccable countries. So much for your information. We are worse than Greece, which was to be expected in the event of a change of government. But my question is that you were obviously upset by the subject of education in Estonian. You have read your views long and you have not supported our amendment. Are you also upset by building an eastern border? You didn't support that either. You show the same attitude as you showed for the topic of education in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U175	Thank you. Mr Jürgen, for the last two or three weeks, you have been so white and hairy that I admire. I'm getting a tear in my eye. But maybe you'll get so angry and start attacking with some bullshit. Oh, my God! Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question concerns Amendment 50 tabled by the Free Party. It is one group of people, disabled children, and their parents, who really need to be improved and their lives lightened. I understand that the Ministry of Finance could not support this, but why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs not support this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U177	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U178	Thank you. I'll start with a simple reason. The source of the cover is 143 million Estonian Energia, but it is a source from which money cannot be taken. But more importantly, this welfare programme does not include services for children with disabilities and therefore it is not possible to channel money into this programme for these services. The budget for the activities of the Child and Family Programme of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which brings together various services provided to children with disabilities, will increase in 2019 compared to 2018. This will, for example, improve access to rehabilitation services for children with special needs. In addition, the provision of assistance to children with special needs will be improved. To this end, a fundamental change in the budget of aid instruments will be implemented for an initial period of two years in 2019, which will enable the aid instrument to be provided to all those in need on the basis agreed in the regulation of the aid instruments. In addition, there is an increase in the amount of benefits and benefits paid to children and families, the amount of the allowance for the disabled child and the payment of the additional holiday pay for the parent of the disabled child. That was the explanation in the Commission, and after that we voted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U179	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U180	Thank you, good manager. Mr President of the Commission. As of 1 January of this year, the coalition led by the Centre Party introduced a system whereby a pensioner who goes to work and uses the tax-free minimum of EUR 500 on his salary, like all the other working people, would be deprived of the pension exemption for pensioners. This system is unfair. In my previous question, I referred to your earlier words. On 6 February this year, you have told Postimees that you have learned from the chairman of your group that the Coalition Council has discussed this issue and it is clear that these problems need to be taken seriously. Unfortunately, as is customary for the Central Party government, there are no decisions. And in order to finally make this decision, the Reform Party and I tabled Amendment 3 which has not been supported. That is what I asked about in the previous question. Why didn't you support me?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U181	Now I have to apologize to you. It seems to me that this recital has come to some other amendment... Yes! I mean, dear colleague, this is purely my mistake. I will be hearing this recording, which has the debate on this amendment, and everything that was said there, I will send it to you no later than the day after tomorrow. Right now, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U182	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U183	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I still come to the 21st amendment, because I do not have the opportunity to put it to the vote. I do, however, want to know what the Commission thought of this logical relationship between the Ministry of Justice and the NGO Estonian Endive Forest Brothers Association. And is it logical to allocate EUR 1 million from the Ministry of Justice budget to a foundation that does not exist, for which we do not know who will lead it, who will work there, what its objectives are? Do you think it is a normal situation for us to channel taxpayers' money into some sort of non-existent foundation? And the second question concerns the 50th amendment. It is not true that the increase in the share capital of Eesti Energia cannot be cancelled because Eesti Energia has not explained what project it is going to.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U184	As far as the Estonian Family Foundation is concerned, I can only repeat that, perhaps you did not hear it, that the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, when he was in the Committee on Finance, explained that the establishment of this implementing unit is necessary to implement the fundamentals of Estonian population policy until 2030 and to monitor population processes. In the case of foundation capital, it is planned to include the leaders of the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families and the Estonian Women's Association and representatives of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. As far as I know, whether or not an association exists is controlled, and if it exists and, for example, has had tax debts, it does not receive any financing from the state budget. This has been the practice so far. So everything that took place in the Commission on this subject was not limited to one question to Mr Reinsalu. Members of the Commission, especially from the Reform Party Group, asked the right number of questions regarding this organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U185	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U186	Good manager! Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! Exactly two years ago, on November 21, at exactly the same time, Jüri Ratas stood on your spot and said, "Good friends! If I gain your trust today, I want to change Estonia's political culture and lose the understanding that the wrong man cannot do the right thing. ' I asked him if I understood correctly that you wouldn't be running a roller like this again. Jüri Ratas: 'I think this is an important change in the direction of political culture. The principle that the wrong man must not do the right thing must not apply. Yeah, that has to change. ' I can see right now that out of 57 opposition amendments, everything has been sent to the trash. My question is: did Jüri Ratas, who wished to be Prime Minister, cheat on us at the time? That's the first option. The second option: he actually wants to do this, but you, as Chairman of the Monetary Commission and as a long-standing member of the Riigikogu, are doing a road roll and killing all the opposition's drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U187	Thank you. As you can see, one of the sweetest colleagues in this room, I take no responsibility for someone else and say what he meant, what he wants, what he wants. Not for Jüri Ratas or Peter Ernitsa, I'm not gonna say anything. As far as the roller coaster is concerned, we have discussed all these amendments. Several nuances were linked to the sources of cover, which made it impossible to support these amendments. There were also problems with the fact that the amendment was contrary to the government's work programme, with the commitments it had made. All decisions taken in the Committee on Monetary Affairs are collective decisions. I don't even respond to you trying to attribute all this to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U188	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good chairman of the committee! The question is not at all about the sources of cover, which would have been very easy to adjust. Amendment 35 proposes a halving of party funding. I tried to read in the explanatory memorandum, which is because it's been ignored. On another page, which concerns political parties, I found that the funding of political parties from the state budget is essential in order to ensure that political parties receive funding on a clear, transparent and uniform basis. Was that the reason not to reduce the funding of political parties? Would this reduction make public funding blurry? What is it about not being able to take account of this proposal either?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U190	Yeah, that's exactly what it sounds like. In the meantime, I found this formulation, which is exactly what it sounded like in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If I may, I'll say a few words for myself. I have my own opinion on whether all political parties should act only with public money and should be completely prohibited from receiving support from individuals, natural or legal persons. It would be quite difficult because it is very difficult to prove. And how do you stop a politician from using his money? On the other hand, it could be that there is no State funding, but then there should be public funding by both legal and natural persons. I think it would be better to see who's working for who. At the moment, on the donor list, I look at it every quarter with great interest only for natural persons. Sometimes you don't know which organization, the company, the company. But yes, there is just a practice that has been put in place a long time ago, and I support it because it does not seem to be able to change it in any reasonable time. But I will say once again that I think it would be more appropriate if only the support of natural and legal persons were possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U191	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U192	Thank you. Good waitress! The custom is that a smart Indian doesn't step on one rake several times. Both the revenue for 2017 and this year's budget, it is known that the sharp increase in excise duties, in particular alcohol excise duties, will amount to a total of hundreds of millions less than those recorded in the budget over two years. I would point out that the costs have been incurred, but what is not due are excise duties. In this respect, it seems completely illogical to go ahead with the high rates which make less money available to the budget than, for example, in 2016, more than twice the rate of excise duty on beer. The proposal made by the Reform Party Group to lower these excise duties has, in some strange way, been supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This would, in all likelihood, generate additional money and be reasonable at all. The question is simple: why do you not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U193	Thank you. Colleagues, I think you were absent from the floor when a question of this kind was asked. However, it was the opinion of producers and those who brought them into the country that the reduction in the excise duty rate would not increase the collection of excise duties. In other countries, the reduction of excise duty has not produced such a positive result in practice. That's all I've been talking about, it's pretty much in the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U194	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I don't think you've seen the latest material. However, it turns out that Greece is among the first, and we are behind them. Thus, the European flagship has fallen into another group, which is actually offensive. And this is rather the result of loose lifestyles, or loose fiscal policies. There's one thing I don't understand. You said in any of the answers that the border could not be built and that it was therefore unreasonable to support the proposal, but, on the other hand, when it comes to foundations and other undertakings, where it is not known whether they would be set up and whether they could be used, the money would be allocated. For example, Eesti Energia has said that she does not know about the investments she is going to make. Is that logical and fair from your point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U196	Thank you. All right, let's get back to Greece. Yes, for you, dear colleague, and for me, of course, it is a supersurprise. And for the first time when Aivar Sõerd asked this question, I read out these countries: Germany, Ireland, Greece, Cyprus, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Austria and Finland. And this must be some kind of joke the human brain is playing with him: if you don't want to see anything, you won't see it. And that's probably why Greece somehow slipped away for me. But in order to talk badly about Estonia, in the sense that Greece is in front of us when we look at this list, we can see that no direct rating has been given. We don't know, maybe Greece is in front of Germany, Austria and Finland. I would not overstate this issue; it is not a tragedy at all. Absolutely! As big friends and members of a single organisation, more or less a number of organisations, both the European Union and NATO, we should be delighted that one country suddenly became lucky, it started to go better. To insult the Greeks that they are the ones who are not capable of anything, this is not the best practice, given also where Estonians are most at rest. Probably in Greece. But when it comes to organisations and the question of who to finance and what amounts, these proposals are made by ministries according to their own logic. We don't always know the end of it. So with the first part of the question I propose to close. Yes, Greece is among the top ten, and I have to apologize for my mistake. Yeah, it's a surprise for me, too, but this surprise makes me happy. And the other half of the question about different organisations: it is up to the ministries to decide, the ministers to decide. It's their business, we can't orientate in detail in thousands of organizations. I think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U197	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U198	Thank you. Mr Stalnukhin, I also apologise to Greece for you. But when it was about education in Estonian, the funding of which you did not support, you were upset about it. When we were talking about the border agreement, you were upset with me. You didn't support either of these things, and you said I wasn't as cute, white and hairy as usual. But how do you react when I ask you: why do you support the higher taxation of pensions that this government has done? All three pillars fall under a higher tax rate if there are additional revenues, so it is working pensioners that are victims. Why didn't you support our proposal? You've used to look like you've been supporting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U199	You cannot claim that I do not support it, nor can you claim that I support it. We just haven't really talked to you about it. You're just putting an opinion in my mouth right now. But as far as my identity is concerned, I'm upset or not cute Jürgen, I'd like to know how you know when I'm upset and when I'm not. Does the Commission ever see whether I am upset or not? I don't think so. I am talking a little bit more than usual about this remote control, but I have the opinion of all the members of the committee close to my heart, and I will always do everything to make it possible for you to speak very much exactly as much as you want. Have I ever prevented you from saying anything in two years? Have I ever been evil? Am I performing really evil right now? That's interesting! Somebody once said something about body language. Maybe you can open this secret for me, then I can follow it myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U200	Laine Randjärv.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U201	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a question in the field of culture. It's known there's going to be another song and dance. This is a cultural event with 150 years of history. The Choir Leaders' Association has repeatedly visited the Committee on Culture to express concern that choir leaders do not have the same remuneration as music teachers. The Committee on Culture has very much supported this issue. The Minister of Education and Culture has both said that this is very important, trying to find solutions. I do not see that these proposals are included in the budget. What is your personal opinion, is there any way to propose any improvements before the third reading? Would you be willing, among other things, to support the very good music teachers in your constituency who bring their collectives to a song and dance? Should their wages correspond to their work so that our tradition of singing and dances last?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U202	Thank you. When we discussed this song and dance, jubilee and everything in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I asked how much money there was this year, how much next year. There were amounts of 1.9 million and 1.83 million, if I'm not mistaken. I may be wrong, but about that kind of money. However, as far as song teachers, choir leaders and others are concerned, I do not know how you interpret it, but I think the right way is for the Committee on Culture to discuss and discuss some draft legislation coming from a member of the Riigikogu or from the Commission. And once it is approved there, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will be able to vote in favour of these raises.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U203	Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! My question is about Krista Aru's question concerning the increase in support for children with disabilities in Amendment 50. I was very puzzled when I heard that you were reading about where additional resources were being transferred to the Ministry of Social Affairs. And why was that so confusing to me? Because they do not come directly into contact with the subject of this proposal. It is a great thing that more money is given for rehabilitation, that more money is given to obtain aid, but the concrete proposal concerned a completely different area. Here, the sums you've read to us aren't gonna help. My question is, do you understand that the Ministry has provided an entirely irrelevant explanation as to why it is not worth supporting this proposal, in essence you also addressed this proposal. Did you realize it wasn't a criminal, or did you just take the Ministry's opinion and you didn't really care if it was competent or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U205	Thank you. I think that, just as with the previous question, there is internal logic here. A certain social group has a problem and we will solve it by offering to allocate a million or ten specifically to this target group. But like I said, it's very serious. Wage issues will be resolved by means of draft laws, the increases in these allowances will be solved by means of draft laws. It's customary. As far as the other half of the question is concerned, the Ministry of Finance is one and I have no other opinion to offer you than what I have introduced to you by the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic. We are based exactly on what remained in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U206	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U207	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm asking for proposals 33 and 39. EKRE proposed to waive the amount of 2.47 million paid to Greece on the line of the Ministry of Finance and to increase the Salvation Fund by 2.5 million on the line of the Ministry of the Interior. Why do you prefer support for Greece and rescuers, I do not want to say hanging, because there is really money being given to rescuers, but why do you prefer Greece to rescuers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U208	Nobody prefers anyone. Salvation wages, if my memory doesn't fool me, the next year will rise by 29%, and there's something else. They rise from 700 to 1000 euros, plus on-call payments or what they are called there. As far as Greece is concerned, please listen carefully so that afterwards it cannot be said that it did not understand. The second phase of debt relief measures, which was to start after the end of the programme, was agreed together with the last review of the third programme in June 2018. On 26 June 2018, the Government of the Republic approved the termination of the programme, including debt relief with repayments, and the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs on 2 July 2018. The return of the calculated income is not an Estonian solo, but all euro area countries participate in it. The return on Greek bonds owned by the Eurosystem was agreed for the first time in 2012 during the second Greek programme and started in 2013 and 2014. Since then, these expenditures have also been identified in the state budget. The return of the estimated revenue stopped in 2015, as the second programme ended without agreement. We have therefore not made any transfers between 2015 and 2018. As part of the debt relief measures, the return on the bond income started again, as already stated. In no way can the Government prescribe to Eesti Pank how much of its profits it should transfer to the state budget. But it's a different subject. I mean, we're doing what we've done to ourselves. There's no emotion here, it's just a premeditated action.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U209	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U210	Thank you. I'm gonna keep going on alcohol duty. You said they asked the distilleries, and they thought they didn't have to lower the beer excise. Well, it's kind of a story that when you ask the distilleries, they don't, of course, think that beer excises should be lowered. They'd probably even be willing to double the beer excise. But if we take impartial analysts, both the Conjuncture Institute and KPMG, they say that even 100 million can be made more. We know that this is not only about the 340 million underage, but because of this excise duty, several country shops have closed down, we have more than 100 million Latvian bottles with tax marks and a bottle in Estonian nature, and the number of Finnish tourists has decreased by a whole tenth. And the fact is that in 2016, twice the rate of excise duty on beer came into the budget. Consequently, I still have the question: what is it that prevents you from listening to the sound voice of common sense and coming up not only to the wishes of the opposition but, in fact, to common sense and to lower alcohol excise duty to the 2016 rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U211	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say right away that I did not say a single word about the producers of vodka here. Check the stenogram, it's pretty sure I didn't talk about them. Now, the Conjuncture Institute may provide a prognosis, but I'd compare it to the fact that, look, Taavi, we have a big celebration twice a month. In the beginning, the forecast is made by the one who is doing these market surveys and where I think the Centre Party is ahead, and then by EMOR, where is the Reform. We're gonna have a party in turns, okay? We're gonna have a party, we're gonna have a party, we're gonna have a party, we're gonna have a party, we're gonna have a party, we're gonna have a party, I mean, the situation is exactly the same, people are the same, the methodology should be the same in the European Union country, because people have been educated in the same schools. And then there's this difference, sometimes it's 10 over 12%. No way! It's just an illustration of what I think of all kinds of prognosis. I am based on the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, and it makes a lot of sense in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and I even have to rely on it. I will listen very carefully to what the National Audit Office is saying. Recently, I have understood the importance of the Fiscal Council, Eesti Pank. I'm trying to keep track of these things. But, well, the rest of these predictions could be a thousand. And this statement that a hit of 100 million or 200 million or 500 million would mean that the forecasts could not be used in this way. But in any case, I was talking about beer producers when I said that it was thought that the reduction in excise duty would be of no benefit, including in border trade. And we also discussed this in the Commission. And as far as I can remember, I was completely calm, but look at Jürgen for some reason upset and said a few bad words. But there's no way I'm going to repeat it in this hall. When it comes to small shops, Tavi, I guess you weren't in the hall again, but I've been talking about it not only today, but before. Once again, when representatives of small shops met with representatives of large trading chains here in the Riigikogu about a year and a half ago, they attacked them with the accusation that they would die out. That was the main reason. And after that, you can blame me for excise duties or something else. And finally. Mistakes are the easiest way to avoid doing anything. But any person who wants to accomplish something in life has to work, has to do something. And if you move and try to do one thing or another or another, you're gonna make mistakes. And there's been a lot of them all. I don't want to start blaming now: but you, but you, but you... The question is whether mistakes can be corrected or not. Actually, it is. And if there are serious proposals and serious analysis, we can probably come back to this policy, but not by taking measures to simply use millions of euros from the budget for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U212	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U213	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Returning to the eastern border. When you answered the previous question, you said that this process was not so much related to coalition decisions as merely and specifically to building capacity. Something was scratching my soul, and I looked at the explanatory memorandum to the draft budget law, which said that there would be 15 million for this in 2020, only 10 million in 2021 and only 9.7 million in 2022. So my question is: is this really a realistic estimate of where the government's economic policy is going? It seems that the building capacity of Estonian entrepreneurs is shrinking year after year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U214	Thank you. I'm sorry, dear colleague, but I didn't make any sense right now. The construction sector is the engine of our economy. The construction sector is what we are proud of. It really is! To mention that there may be some objects where it is not possible to realise 10 million euros is just funny. We have asked about this, we have talked about this, and we have also heard that the people involved have made their recommendations on what amounts are realistic and how the construction of the border can work. I read it to you, look at the verbatim, see how it sounded! I don't have much to add. Don't look for a black cat in a dark room, especially if the cat isn't there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U215	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U216	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! My question is on Amendment 7. In this, the Reform Party proposes to increase the levelling-out fund for municipalities by EUR 19 million, taking as a cover any discretionary decisions by the coalition under the name of regional policy, the so-called 'roof money'. Was the majority of the Commission really in favour of giving funds to municipalities on the basis of political contacts rather than on the basis of rules? Is partyism a priority as regards the right to self-determination and financial autonomy of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U217	Thank you. That sounded good, didn't it?? For tomorrow's paper! Super question! Where do you read it, on the phone or on the paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U218	It's written in my own hand!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U219	I don't know who would doubt it! To be brief, the Equalisation Fund cannot play a role in regional development. A representative of the Ministry of Finance spoke about this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and no one argued against it when he introduced this principle. It is a question of harmonisation, and that is what the Equalisation Fund is for. And thank God it exists. To put it a little bit further, the Equalisation Fund allocates funds not according to familiarity, but on the basis of a formula to all municipalities in a uniform manner. This is not appropriate to meet regional policy objectives if resources are to be directed towards the development of priority areas and objects on a case-by-case basis. That'll be all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U220	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U221	Thank you. Good waitress! I'll come back to my question. Clearly, you are not very familiar with the funding of the song festival movement and what is happening during the interparty. If you're telling me that some money was added to make this party happen, maybe it's because the rent in the singing field rose or because cleaning services are more expensive. I would like to draw attention to Amendment 27, which is made to ensure that the preparation of singing and dance parties is professional and that teachers are also covered by social guarantees. This is the subject where the Committee on Culture in corpore felt that the proposal of the Choir Leaders' Association should be supported. We have called on both ministers, both the Minister of Education and the Minister of Culture, to deal with this. There is now, like a political dabroo, a proposal for a correction was made, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs still decided to reject it, perhaps not to take it into account. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U222	Thank you. I'll explain. An additional 1.8 million euros will be funded for the jubilee song festival and dance party. An additional amount of 7.6 million has been allocated in 2019 for the salary increase of the Ministry of Culture. The extra money is 7.6 million! And there was also a claim against the source of cover: an increase in expenditure rather than a financial transaction has a negative impact on the government budget position. In short, this is the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U223	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U224	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask about Amendment 52. Indeed, as you are well aware, our average old-age pension is about 450 euros per month, but the average nursing home costs about 750 euros per month. It's gonna be hard for a lot of old people. The Free Party proposed that we set up a care insurance system. This proposal was left to account. Please tell me why the government didn't approve!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U225	Thank you. With your permission, however, I will start with the information that, before this season, we had a group event in which I spoke about the objectives that should be set in the next composition of the Centre Party. I've had a lot of contact with older people in my area, and I realized that over time, it happens that some problems are replaced by others. And when I recently heard the complaining that it has been impossible to unite families or that pensions are small, there is now a complaining concern that migration is taking place and that young people are often going away for a very long time. Now old people have a new fear. It's the fear that if they need care, they won't be able to secure it for themselves. Yes, their children are abroad and, of course, they support their parents, but old people want to be able to pay themselves so that they don't turn to stone on their children's necks. I made an offer to my group to take up the nursing home programme. We're missing seats. The state should build two or three new nursing homes each year and ensure that 85% of the average pension is sufficient to pay the monthly fee. I hope that everything that has been said in this way, I had an article on this subject, once, will receive support. Everyone gets old sooner or later and realizes what life this old man's life really is. But now the Treasury Department is talking about this. The maintenance load system needs to be looked at in a comprehensive way and the creation of care insurance may be part of the maintenance load system, the criteria of which must be agreed and analysed in order to decide what is the most suitable method of care insurance for Estonia. The care of older people is currently the responsibility of local governments and the local government assesses the need for care and the measure that best helps people. Since local authorities have discretion, it is welfare, not insurance. On 21 December 2017, the Government Office decided that the Ministry of Social Affairs will prepare the concept of planned changes to the long-term care system in 2018 and will submit a further request for implementation of the reform in 2019 when discussing the country's budgetary strategy. On 14 September 2017, the Government of the Republic approved proposals for the financing of initial measures to reduce the maintenance load for the years 2018 to 2021, a total budget of EUR 16.4 million. So this proposal will also be reflected in this decision and probably the next membership will start to deal with it next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U226	Madis...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U227	I'm sorry, but there was also an incorrect source of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U228	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question concerns Amendment 22, which talks about allocating additional money to the Defence League so that they can acquire additional means of transport and communication, as well as support for comprehensive defence and population protection projects. Question: why did it not find support in the Commission? It is all the more strange that we claim to have a cross-party consensus in defence matters in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U230	Thank you. Yes, we have a consensus. While you were asking, I tried to recall what happened in the Commission, and it is interesting that I remember the words, but I do not remember who said them, but my colleagues in the Committee on Monetary Affairs will certainly confirm that. The acquisition of a means of transport is the purchase of a long-term item. This means that if you buy it, it is not one transaction in one year, but you must also provide for the costs of using it: petrol, maintenance, repair if necessary, hiring the people you need, etc. This means that every time you buy a bus or tank or whatever means of transport, you have to plan the costs for several years. And this planning, especially when it comes to the Defence Forces or the Defence League, can't be like, uh, we're giving them something right now. It must have been calculated in advance for a long time. This is the kind of speech that someone who understands defence matters better than I do, and I agree with that. But now I'm going to read you the official position. The budget volume of the Ministry of Defence is based on the component found on the basis of a 2% share of forecast gross domestic product in 2019. This is EUR 540 million, plus the defence investment programme funds provided for in the national budget strategy for the procurement of special defence equipment, which is EUR 30 million. Additional funds of EUR 15 million have been allocated to ensure the reception capacity of the Allied Forces, with a total of EUR 29 million. Assigned support to the Defence League is then included in the Ministry of Defence budget of 2% of GDP. The 2019 budget of the Ministry of Defence will increase by 14% compared to the current year's budget. As a rule, the economic performance of the Defence Union will be positive, with an adjustment of EUR 4 to 5 million in 2014‐2017, at the expense of which the necessary investments can be made. But once again, much more effective was what was said about planning in the Commission. No one reminded me of who it was who it was, but it's true. If you're gonna buy something for the Defence Forces, you're gonna have to have funding for the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U231	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U232	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! My question concerns Amendment 51, the content of which is the proposal to end the reduction in support for people with partial or lack of working capacity. The background to this is that we are actually punishing those people who work with special needs: if you are active, if you have learned something and are exerting yourself, then we will start reducing support. In fact, it is this that increases the need for support. This problem is in the same category as the problem of working pensioners. Here's my question. We reject the fact that the proposed source of cover is not suitable for Eesti Energia. That has nothing to do with this right now. Did you also ask for an opinion on this proposal from the unemployment fund, which has to deal with this administrative burden and bureaucracy every day, which both disturbs people and officials? Did you ask the unemployment fund and when you asked, what answer did you get?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U233	Thank you. We didn't ask the unemployment fund. But there's really nothing in common with this last subject. At first, we were supposed to look at it, but then there were words like that. And if there's any mistake in this text that's wrong with real life, try to fix it. However, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that the welfare programme referred to does not include services for disabled children and therefore it is not possible to channel funds for these services. The budget for the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs' Children's and Families' programme, which includes various services for disabled children, is higher in 2019 than this year, including, for example, the provision of rehabilitation services for children with special needs. In addition, the availability of tools for children with special needs will be increased. To this end, the following year will be the first two years to implement a fundamental change in the budget of the aid instruments, which will enable the aid instrument to be provided to any person in need on the basis agreed in the regulation on the aid instruments. That was the reason, and it seemed quite logical to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. [[Something they say in the hall.]] I'm sorry! Proposal 51, either... I'm sorry! I'm really sorry! After the three amendments were withdrawn, the numbering changed and I look like printouts that are once 52, once 51. So... I'm sorry, but we're not in a hurry, are we? People with a lack of working capacity here are summarised in such a way that these are the costs imposed by law, and the necessary legislation needs to be adopted to channel additional resources. Draft laws affecting the state budget must be handed over to the Riigikogu before the draft state budget law for a specific year. That was the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U234	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am now trying to make a very precise line in this unreadable budget: the line is 91, the type is 10 and the account is 101. This is an increase in financial assets under the Ministry of Finance of 153.5 million, which, as you can understand, 143 million will go into the share capital of Eesti Energia. In the meantime, the Minister of Finance went to the Riigikogu to answer and he explained quite uncertainly that he did not know whether this money would be needed at all and, if necessary, perhaps 50 million for basic investments in the distribution network. Please tell me whether, between the first and second readings, this question has also emerged in the Commission and whether this line can remain so vaguely in the state budget. Did it not make sense to change it, to clarify it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U236	Thank you for your question. I was beginning to think that no one would ask that, and that would be a shame. Mr Sõerd asked a question in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which could not be answered on the spot by a representative of the Ministry, and that was specifically about the use of these amounts. We have the overview for which this money is to be used. The representatives of the staff of the Monetary Commission are in the Chamber, please send Mr Herkel this information concerning the financial transaction of Eesti Energia and describing this situation. I feel like I left it in the office or I would have given up my copy. But more than that document, I don't know. This text is a whole page. It explains what cooperation with companies is possible and even what projects may be in question in which countries. But, yeah, it's all questionable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U237	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U238	Thank you. Good waitress! I thank you for the praise I received from you! I applaud. You have learned a lot from the Prime Minister: you commend my question, but you do not answer. That's why I'm gonna ask you again, and I'm gonna try to make it easier. Why did the Commission's majority not support the Reform Party's proposal to increase the municipal support fund by EUR 19 million, but preferred to distribute 19 million on the basis of arbitrary party decisions? I hope I get an answer now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U239	Thank you. In fact, the praise you gave me, it's not praise, it's something else entirely. I am much older than the Prime Minister, and not I should learn anything from him, but he should learn from me. With regard to your question, first of all, I have already given you this answer by reading out the explanation of the Ministry of Finance on the Equalisation Fund and regional objectives. But second of all, you know, as much as this coalition has done in the interests of local governments, it can be searched. In fact, there has never been a government like this before. I remember how I practically cried in 2009 when I heard the sentence: 'If this is a crisis, then I would like to live in a crisis like this. ' I don't know how he lived, but we lived in a total crisis. And then suddenly there had to be a budget lay-off of how many people had to be fired because of it! You once robbed local governments to solve your political problems. Yes, you did. We've done a huge job, we've recovered almost all of that, we're at the same percentage. I understand that two centuries have not been covered, or that money has gone over, but it has gone over with an obligation. But we have helped enormously, we are very focused on local governments. And that 19 million you're trying to cut political pros, well, it's like a billboard. Keep talking about it! Yeah, you guys are good. In your day, you took hundreds of millions, and now you want to make it up to 19 million. We gave local governments their income base back. And everything that goes with that, I've already told you for the first time by answering your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U240	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U241	Thank you, President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! My question concerns Amendment 6. Indeed, the current draft state budget law provides that the Prime Minister plans to spend EUR 150000 of taxpayers' money next year to attend the meeting of the Davos World Economic Forum. The heads of state usually attend the Davos meeting on the basis of invitations and do not pay participation fees. Since this is a very large amount in terms of external mission, which is more than four times the annual budget of the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee, the Reform Party Group has proposed to waive this expenditure. And my question to you is: why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs disregard this proposal, i.e. which, on the basis of the arguments, the Commission considered it reasonable to pay EUR 150000 for participating in this conference?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U242	Thank you. There were no arguments, if you put it that way. There were emotions in the opinions. Some did not understand why Estonia, the prime minister of our tiny little country should go somewhere, let him sit at home, and others asked how we would progress if our leaders did not go to such forums. So we're just trying to limit our emotions. I don't have an opinion of my own. This is a political decision, so evaluate it in such a way that Estonia must be represented in a forum where the receivers of the decisions of this world gather.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U243	Mr. Stalnukhin, there are no further questions for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U244	Really?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U245	Honestly! I'm opening negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U246	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It is one of the poor budgets of an unambitious and indifferent to the interests of the state and society, but greedy in keeping an eye on personal interests. First of all, let's talk about balance. The European Commission's assessment says that the structural deficit is 0.7%. This means that, in the event of extreme concessions, there is still some way to fit into the framework of the European Union's rules, but above all, self-serving overspending. This is a very clear leap-through from under the bar, from under the bar that Estonia has kept for itself before this government. In our own time, we have precisely presented the budget with a margin, a surplus, in order to ensure that we, as assessed by the European Commission's methodology, would not be left a disgrace or live at the expense of the future. 0.7% has been the normal difference resulting from the methodology, as well as the normal surplus number. In addition, it has been forced to balance the budget, with yokk-shapes, which in itself is in some ways nothing unusual. But let us call it the Estonian Energy-related scheme, which has been claimed to have been used by the previous government as well. In fact, it is still a pretty scam scheme, because it is not about investment. The idea, in itself, of placing capital in Eesti Energia and at the same time taking dividends is nothing extraordinary, unusual, it is natural. Increasing the capital base by investing in larger dividends is financial management, but there is no real need for investment here. Here is just money laundering: dividends are maximized so that the company has a critical fall in ratios, and then the other way around, money is put in there that doesn't reduce the balance of the budget. Secondly, there are no structural reforms. The interest in making a lasting improvement in society and spending it has not been demonstrated by this government. Let us remember how this government has worked. First of all, there was a cluster bill, where things were not discussed in the Riigikogu either; there were just so many topics and the rules of procedure are so restrictive. It took a few months, started picking berries out of the cluster bill and giving up their decisions, started to get stressed. Now we have reached a phase where nothing is decided, quarrelling and carrying our work into this Riigikogu. The vicious government! Today we discussed a withdrawal. First, excise duties are raised high, now they're saying, oh, we're not raising any more. Or we'll make concessions to those who've lost their breath. What a comic, really! We've also been working on reversing the jam theft. Our proposal is that marijuana thieves must give their prey to the municipal equalization fund. It is also our fundamental regional policy choice. Any talk about restoring the income base by introducing a former percentage of income tax is to channel money into the golden circle. Many of us in this hall are tallinians, but this talk is contrary to common sense. The Equalisation Fund is the way in which regional policy must be pursued. And all kinds of investments and allocation of other funds must, however, go through competitions, go through the discussion of development plans with an honest one, not with the party leaders' discretion. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U247	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U248	We have proposed amendments, which are strategic in terms of increasing R &amp; D expenditure, secondly starting the transition to education in Estonian and, thirdly, building up the eastern border more quickly. In addition, we expect the Riigikogu to withdraw a bill from the drawer that will lose the extra taxation on pensions. All three pension pillars have become taxable as a result of the new Income Tax Act. The smaller step we should take now is to adopt a law whereby pensions, all three pillars, go out of the calculation of income. This government has put them there. We've already talked about the Equalisation Fund. We are also waiting for the government coalition to support our proposal to put a stop to border trade. Different estimates have been made. The most recent KPMG study was carried out, before it was the Institute of Economics, and they have confirmed that the magnitude of what we lose due to alcoral is 100 million. We will take half this into the budget and focus on improving the balance. That's our proposal. That 100 million is a relatively conservative offer. Following how these forecasts have been corrected, as consumers say what producers say, it is very plausible that alcorall alone will be returned directly to 100 million, but in addition, the fuel and other goods that are purchased from Latvia during this race must be taken into account. So there's a source of revenue in itself. There is, of course, any nonsense that should not be included in the budget, which is why we have also reduced expenditure. In summary, we offer, firstly, income from abroad, secondly, improvement of reserves and, thirdly, abandonment of foolishness, i.e. a cut in costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U249	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U250	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, this draft budget is inadequate. And why? There are certainly the usual things inside: the payment of pensions, the cost of education, health care, police, defence. But there's a whole bunch of things inside that you could call selfish pursuits. These are not political choices, but purely selfish choices. Millions, as many as tens of millions, are divided into 'roof money'. The worst part of this budget, however, is that it is absolutely unambitious and does not look from the end to the future. There's only two things I'd like to talk about. The first topic is Estonian-language education. The chairman of the committee said that nothing has been done to this end and cannot be taught. Listen, if nothing has been done so far, and I think it's really going to be a very long stretch, if we don't do it now, we're gonna postpone it! The sooner we start, the more hope that we will really go on with our education in Estonian. But now everything is done so that, for God's sake, children and young people cannot learn the Estonian language. What would happen? Suddenly they turn out to be successful, and suddenly this inequality in terms of opportunities disappears! That's bullshit! At the same time, they say they want to create equal opportunities for everyone. No, you don't! The second issue: research and development. If we do not put money in this area, the Estonian economy will not proceed. We need research, we need development. Yes, there is a need to define specific areas, but I would not talk about it so much. For me, it is absolutely a sign of the government's attitude towards science: instead, the government distributes money to the churches. And he does not give money to churches to clean up cultural monuments, he distributes money so that a tiny congregation can build a new church, even though there is a historical church of cultural value that needs to be repeated. I'm sorry, where's the mind? This is absolute irresponsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U251	Thank you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U252	Good vice chairman! Good Riigikogu! I'll come back to what I've made. This is the 18th amendment, which deals more broadly with the constant fact that the Riigikogu has the power to bring about changes in society, to find solutions to the problems that our constituents and colleagues, including opponents, highlight. I am deeply offended by the cynical and irresponsible attack on the authorities in the Committee on Legal Affairs that they cannot do their job. However, if these same institutions address the Riigikogu with specific solutions, they will be reviewed. And today, the Riigikogu is doing exactly the same: it takes no responsibility whatsoever to solve problems. For me, the solution to the problem is not to limit the time limits for investigations to a smaller number of calendar days, which essentially means a drop in quality. For me, the priority is that the quality of work must improve. And when we talk about an e-state as such, we could take into account proposals that would allow the prosecutor's office, the Police and Border Guard Board and the courts to store and exchange evidence electronically. This would be hugely speeding up both the procedure and the communication between them. We agree, for example, that if the court needs to obtain permission to take measures to eliminate the perpetrator in any way at home, two bags of paper will first be printed. But with today's possibilities, it could be enough for you to press the 'Send' button. Why don't we go with these solutions in the Riigikogu? After all, we are talking about the state budget now, which should be the most effective means of triggering change. We're kind of in two kinds of jars. Firstly, it is not wanted to improve the situation, and secondly, the state budget procedure is impossible. It is irresponsible of us to accept it because we do not see what is actually happening under it. Perhaps the solution that I would like to propose could be achieved, for example, by redeploying the prosecutor's office's own budget. But where do I read this information? It is neither in the draft nor in its explanatory memorandum. And then they come to say that you have the wrong source of cover, that's why we're not taking your proposal into consideration. I don't know where we live! We're buying a pig in a bag right now, and I don't think it's responsible. And the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, which manages the state budget procedure, says that we cannot reject the budget because it does not meet our requirements. But the Riigikogu would essentially like to discuss the budget. Excuse me, what is this Committee on Monetary Affairs doing here? After all, it is possible to explain and implement the will of all political parties in this Parliament. I hope that we will not adopt the 2019 budget in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U253	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U254	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, To encourage and encourage the Estonian people, the government coalition stays together in order to make good decisions for the Estonian people. The purpose of the draft state budget for next year is to increase the well-being of the people of Estonia. And I am pleased that for the second year in a row, the country has indeed turned its face towards the people. This brings us closer to the goal of a just state for all. In November 2016, the Centre Party took government responsibility with the firm aim of making our society more coherent and stronger. It is our will to build a fair country for all people of Estonia, regardless of gender, age, nationality or place of residence. We have stood up for this principle as a party of the Prime Minister. Our economy is growing, wages are rising, people have jobs and unemployment is low. Public finances have been well maintained and we will continue to implement a responsible and sustainable fiscal policy for growth. If this year's budget exceeded 10 billion euros in revenue and expenditure, then next year will already be over 11 billion euros. Estonia's tax burden remains stable and the state's debt burden decreases. Next year's state budget follows the four key priorities set out in the budget strategy: promoting economic growth in Estonia, increasing population numbers, strengthening security and improving the well-being and cohesion of society. In order to increase the coherence of our society and reduce inequalities, the 2019 state budget will primarily contribute to people, public services and regional development. Next year, we will increase the wage fund for employees who receive salaries from the state budget, continue to increase teachers' salaries, with an average teacher's salary reaching EUR 1500, an average salary for cultural workers rising to EUR 1280, as well as an increase in the income of kindergarten teachers and social welfare specialists, and the salaries of policemen and rescuers. The average pension increase from EUR 447 to EUR 481 will ease the livelihood of the elderly. This is a noticeable income in a bank account, but an extraordinary increase in pensions should still be made over the next few years. Right next year, we will continue to help pensioners living alone, with a budget of nearly 10 million. The welfare of families with children is one of the government's priorities when it comes to population growth. Support for the first and second children will rise from EUR 55 to EUR 60. We will continue the health reform started this year, the Health Insurance Fund's budget will increase by 180 million euros, and the channelling of additional funds to medicine will help reduce the number of treatments, improve access to health care. No previous coalition has contributed more to strengthening security than the current Central Party, the Social Democrats and the Fatherland power union. Defence costs are increasing to EUR 585 million, currently estimated at more than 2.1% of GDP. EUR 370 million will be earmarked for investments in the coming year. We invest in important transport and infrastructure projects, rural development and cultural and sporting projects. We continue to support the promotion of agriculture and rural areas in general and, of course, the establishment of major masters. The municipal income base continues to grow. The reform of the financing of municipalities has increased their revenues, allowing them to provide better services. The income of local governments will increase by about 5% next year, reaching EUR 2.2 billion. The Ida-Virumaa programme and the South-East Estonia programme are underway, which will receive EUR 5800000 next year. And this funding will continue until 2022 according to the current budgetary strategy. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U255	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U256	Since there was a lot of talk to the committee chairman about border trade, I am pleased to remind you of what former Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas said at the government press conference on 25 February 2016, justifying a sudden increase in alcohol duty: '... if we really want alcohol and tobacco consumption in Estonia to decrease in [---], it is relatively logical and predictable [---] that both alcohol and tobacco excise duties will increase from year to year. And another fundamental and important positive aspect of this last summer's decision is that both the sector and the public know how many years ahead the excise changes will come. We did not do this for one year; we do not need to review it now on an annual basis, on the contrary, we announced four years in advance that this is the policy for alcohol and tobacco excise over the next four years. " That's how the price race started in Latvia, and on the same basis, the taxation of these vices was confirmed. Fuel excise duties were also to grow effectively over the next four years. Fortunately, Jüri Ratas' government has managed to stop these excise increases. It is the task of the state to serve the people, and the state budget must take account of our people in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U257	Thank you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U258	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! The Group of the Estonian Free Party very much commends the coalition for raising teachers' salaries, that the salaries of patrol officers will rise and I hope that they will also be those of rescue officers and cultural workers. It is natural in one country that the salaries of workers who are in direct contact with people and provide the services that we all need every day will rise. The biggest shortage of this budget is what was discussed this morning at the conference centre. In the years of its independence, the Estonian state has reached a stage of development where it is necessary to decide where, in what form, what means will be taken forward. Yesterday, a big idea was proposed in this conference room, one of the great gardens that could unite the country's various associations, different regions, different activities: we want to be the cleanest country in the world. By setting up such a great deal of awareness that Estonia should become the cleanest country in the world, we must realise that it requires research and development, and that it requires people who are inspired to believe in research and development. This will require people who will be helped if they cannot manage themselves, a well-thought-out but ambitious development plan, but an even more ambitious budget supporting and implementing this development plan. Research and development is an excellent opportunity for Estonia to be a large country in its spirit and in its ideas and ideas-bearing activities. However, we do not increase doctoral grants. Where, then, is the science-based knowledge that we want to implement both for the development of the organic state and for the digitisation of industry, with which we want to help children, with which we really want to promote education? We can't see that. On the other hand, the state of Estonia living in the great world is also obliged to keep its language and its culture, not only to keep them, but also to develop them up to date. One of our core activities, which, on the one hand, has seized and covered this eternal value and, on the other, has carried it forward, is the movement of our song and dance. This is not just about the party itself, but about the action of all the thousands of people involved in this process. The party is only a bow, a bow to Estonia, a bow to the people, a bow to their culture, but this process is also important. We have talked about supporting this process, but we do not show it by action. Support for disabled children and their parents is also part of the natural development of one developed country. We are a country of age where it needs to be understood and demonstrated in action. The strength of Estonia depends heavily on how we cover all our changing education as a coherent network. It is not enough that we have well-developed higher education institutions or well-developed science; we need to bring the whole education system into Estonian in order to eliminate the bilingual world in the country. Many opportunities, which the opposition has also offered, have been left unused in the budget for the coming year, and so there is no ambition, great ideas and constructive force for the Estonian state in this budget! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U259	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U260	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U261	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U262	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Now, what do we say about this budget? Let's just say it's a disgusting distribution of candy money on a huge scale. This is the most depressing deal before the election, where voters are buying votes for their own money. This is the worst example of state capitalism. This is the worst and most genuine example of populism, and precisely because the essence of this budget is not to develop one, another or third thing and to promote the life of Estonia, but to buy votes in elections with the voters' own money. That's why we didn't break the government this week, because the soups put their fists on the table and told the Centre Party and the Fatherland that if you want to get your money, you want to build rooftops, you want to eye your voters for their own money, you give us Marrakech. And the socks were the only ones who really meant it, and everyone else gave in. The Fatherland dared not put the same threat on the table, dared not say that we would walk out of this government if you passed us by and made a different decision. The Centre Party long ago did not dare to rock the boat and say that the door was there, please very much, go away, you will lose everything yourself. No, instead they made a mess-up and a turn-of-the-eye, a political theater with which they got what they wanted, the Centre Party gets what they want, the Fatherland Alliance gets what they want. Everyone gets their money to give to the voters. And in addition, the Fatherland can signal his virtue and show that he will vote against Marrakech. What a beautiful process! The cost of this budget for us is a migration pact, and that is why we are proposing to cancel reading the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U263	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U264	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a saying that it's not where we are that matters, it's which way we're going. And what we are going in the direction of our state budget came today from the European Commission. We have moved from a group of Member States that have successfully met the budget objectives to a group that has shortcomings. We also learn from the European Commission's assessment today that the Greek budget is more in line with the agreed budget rules than that of the Estonian state. We must take into account that the good times in the economy will not last forever, and the European Commission also stresses that there is an urgent need for Member States to use the current economic growth to create budgetary buffers. Estonia will certainly not do so. If we read the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget, there is evidence that, from any position, the government reserves will decrease next year. So what did the coalition promise us? The coalition promised to bring the economy up, but if we look at the current situation, what has come up? Price increases have emerged and these are the fastest in the euro area. Yes, growth is continuing, but its growth rate is slowing down, and, in fact, investment growth is slowing down compared to previous years. So this budget does not look to the future, this budget only means the forthcoming elections. It is, of course, extremely regrettable that, without further discussion, the sensible proposals put forward by the opposition, whether or not proposals to improve the budgetary balance and increase funding for research and development activities, were rejected. I myself had a proposal, as prices are rising so quickly, to raise the limit on income support. This proposal was voted down. However, after this proposal had come, the government felt that it was still worth taking into account, but it was voted down as a proposal by the opposition. Yes, the economy will grow next year, but the growth rate will slow down. Tax revenues, of course, will continue to grow rapidly, because the price increases that have hit us will bring more VAT revenue into the budget and wages will increase faster than productivity, in turn, into social tax revenue. The budget revenue for next year will be EUR 11.06 billion, and investment expenditure will be EUR 11.31 billion. The draft law on the budget, which determines revenue and expenditure, shows that expenditure is higher than revenue, yet we have been told that the budget has a nominal surplus. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U265	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U266	The explanation given to us in the Committee on Monetary Affairs was such a surprise. It was said that the government will make a budget with a deficit, it will be sent to Statistics Estonia and it will be processed for two weeks and there will be a budget with a small nominal surplus. Yeah, I understand the Statistical Office is adjusting something, converting accounting numbers into statistical numbers, but why is there not a word in the explanatory memorandum about this? There are certainly ambassadors in the Riigikogu who are interested in what happened there. It is also possible to give content and numerical value to accounting entries, but there is no such information in the explanatory memorandum. In fact, we also saw trickery in the process of processing this budget. First of all, it envisages some incomprehensible investment in Eesti Energia, and the more you ask about it, the more confusing it gets. Next, the government itself announced, after the forecast was completed, that now we need to cut the budget a little bit in order to balance it better. After a while, it was announced that the government had reached a consensus on these measures and that the budget was balanced. Later, it became clear that there was no information in the explanatory memorandum on these measures. And some time later, it became clear that it was not an improvement on the budget, but an improvement on the forecast. So this budget is not balanced, and this is also demonstrated by the assessment published by the European Commission on 8 November, which makes it clear that the Estonian budget is structurally measured at 0.7% of GDP in deficit. I've already told you that reserves are shrinking, too. There are different reasons for this, but it still raises doubts. The coalition ambassadors here said that the budget would increase prosperity. Indeed, we are in good shape with our economic economy today, but income growth is largely eaten up by price increases. To sum up, in any case, it must be said that good economic times will not last forever; they will be followed by narrower times, but unfortunately, this budgetary plan does not think about securing the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U267	Thank you. Laine Randjärv, please! Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U268	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak to those ears who consider it important that the state of Estonia and the people of Estonia persist when the field of culture is supported, when attention is paid to our own language, our own creations. I have already repeatedly raised the topic of choir leaders' follow-up and the movement of song and dance. Today I asked the waitress who, with a small smile or in a rather light tone, announced that some 1.8 million were in the budget attached to the singing and dance parties and that there were some money for the raise. You see, singing and dances are not just events organised every five years that can be supported by adding some money, because life has become more expensive. This is an event prepared by thousands of people. A little bit of statistics. 1533 choirs, 141 orchestras, 1500 dance groups participate in song and dance parties. That makes a total of 3174 collectives, and they all need tutors. The Song and Dance Festivals have really been going on for 150 years in different conditions, mostly in the intervening period of defiance, to keep our own culture and language. And a lot of people, who have actually done this work during the advisory period, are still in front of the collectives today, so that the collectives live, carry, are quite advanced in age, but still are able to perform at the singing and dance festivals. As far as the growth of the offspring is concerned, that is actually the problem. My question concerned music teachers, brass teachers, folk dance instructors who are active at schools. Yes, we can say today that the average age of these supervisors is 50+, and maybe they'll be in business for another 15 to 20 years. But there won't be any new ones. They do not come to schools as music teachers because their work is not valued. Every five years, we expect a songboard full of singers to perform with dancers and players, but how do they get there? In the interim four years, they should also act. It says here that there really is a program of support for choirs and other collectives for inter-song festivals. That's 200 euros a year. 200 euros a year! And that amount hasn't increased. This program was set up, I know it very precisely, I was then Minister of Culture during the 2007-2011 period when, in fact, it was a time of depression. That's when it was ready. At that time there were still kroons and 3000 kroons was quite a lot of money for the collective. For this it was possible to order at least one bus from Tartu to Tallinn for a song and dance. That amount hasn't changed at all! And all the time point out that there is this support, add it all up and say that it's a lot of money, it's pretty creepy. From this point on, requests have been sent to pay attention to the fact that there are also social guarantees for people who teach these collectives, but this has been viewed with a condescending attitude. To be honest, it's very sad. A representative of the Choir Leaders' Association has visited the Committee on Culture on several occasions, has visited the Ministry, I have been talking to them. They have carried out all the tasks assigned to them. It is calculated how many teachers, several hours, how many contact hours, how much social security would be, etc. And they still think there's something else to do, and there's something else to do. We are facing the 2019 Song and Dance Party. No matter how difficult these events have been, whether it is a time of depression or some socially difficult time, singing and dancing has brought us out of an emotional low ground. I really urge that there may be some way, however, before the third reading, to examine all the requests that have been made repeatedly. Perhaps you can at least step by step initiate the process so that the next song and dance will not be the last. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U269	Thank you. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U270	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have examined 58 amendments to the budget of the Republic of Estonia for next year. Let us face it honestly, there are a great many necessary and good proposals among them. Why is the government coalition, instead of thinking big and acting statesmanly, going over the opposition again as a roller? The same is what you yourself have accused the Reform Party of a few years ago. Explain now to us and to your voters what is the difference between the Reform Party and the Central Party government! I am convinced that 27 million politically distributed roofing money, called'regional investments', must be withdrawn from the state budget for next year and directed to local authorities, helping children with disabilities, improving the well-being of pensioners and other important areas, according to the rules developed. I am of the opinion that the government must not share roofing money according to party preferences, the budgetary process must be transparent and decisions monitored by the public. The process of drawing up the state budget must be open and public money must not be used to pursue party interests. I did not understand how the activities of the Ministry of Justice are related to the NGO's former Forest Brothers' Association. I am of the opinion that if the Riigikogu adopts a budget that also includes roofing money in the form proposed by the government, it creates a dangerous precedent in Estonia's political culture, which results in the process of drawing up the state budget no longer being transparent and the sharing of party money becomes part of Estonian politics. Is that the policy we wanted? I don't think so! That is why, as an independent member of the Riigikogu, I support the suspension of the reading of the draft state budget law, so that the government takes a little time, think about the budget and withdraw 27 million roofing money from it and direct these sums to solve major problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U271	Thank you. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U272	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no better time to redeem old promises and correct mistakes than today. I think that neither the Estonian state nor local governments have ever had as good a time as they do now in financial terms. At the same time, we must say that this seems to be a highlight. Forecasts show that economic growth is slowing down and we will not be as good as we are today as we are next year. And now, if we don't redeem those old promises or make a correction for mistakes, you could just say it's not recommended. A classic example is R &amp; D and its funding from the state budget. I think that all those who are in this Chamber now, and those who are not in this Chamber at the moment, have all nodded their heads at one point or another, so that public funding in this area could be 1% of GDP. I think everybody's ever said that. What did we hear today from the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs? The aim is to maintain the same level as last year: 0.81% of GDP. If we do not take this step today, the price of which is, I have riddled, to the size of EUR 44 million to bring it to 1% of GDP, then forgive it, in difficult times, it is impossible to do this or to expect it and to expect it from others. So they don't want to do it. It really bothers me how much can be allowed in politics and how little can be done at the same time. Of course, the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy for 2014-20 will not be allowed to interfere. It is very clear that the target is 1% of GDP. That's not a problem, we're not gonna let it bother us! The second issue concerns the excise policy of the Government of the Republic. I don't remember one government or another having had to experience such a great failure in the past. Everyone can make a mistake, but it's incomprehensible to me that no conclusions are drawn, that they are not prepared to correct mistakes. Here they are trying to pin it on the Reform Party: you have already raised the rates of excise duty! Of course, we also raised excise duty rates, but we did so at a reasonable rate. Let's look at the excise receipts! In 2016, an alcohol tax of EUR 251 million was collected, a few million more than was planned in the budget. But when did the fall take place? The fall occurred in 2017. In fact, 276 million were planned in the budget; the actual receipts were 222 million, or nearly 30 million less than a year earlier. And think about what the reason was! This was due to the infamous cluster bill approved in 2016, which exponentially increased excise rates. Did we have considerable border trade before 2017? Were those liquor stores in Ikla? There was nothing like that. This occurred only in 2017 after this excise decision. In fact, the most perilous thing is that all of this is justified by the desire to keep people healthy, so that people consume less alcohol. But, oh, accident! I quote the title of the Earthpaper from 14 November this year: 'The border trade increased drinking and the proportion of illegal strong alcohol'. And this was not the story of the Earthpaper journalist, it was taken from the Yearbook 'Alcoholic Market, Consumption and Damages in Estonia', which revealed that the average consumption of alcohol increased by 0.1 litres in 2017. This increase is marginal, but if we rely on the knowledge that alcohol consumption decreased in the previous three years, then it is clear that the change is much higher than the 0.1 liters, which seems small in quantity. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U273	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U274	Yes, indeed, there are different estimates. Jürgen Ligi indicated that the direct damage was estimated at EUR 100 million by KPMG. But if we take both excise duties on alcohol and excise duties on fuel and VAT on other goods, then I think that the size of 200 million minus is too little rather than too much offered. Not to mention dozens of closed country stores. Yes, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said that they had been closed before. Yeah, they've been closed before, but not at this rate. I think in the last few years, 30 to 40 country stores have gone to their demise. It's a reality. And that's thanks to the Government of the Republic. I say again: error is human, we are all wrong. Rather, the situation is hopeless when it is not drawn conclusions or prepared for correction of errors. And finally, the infamous roofies. This is, in fact, completely unprecedented, what the Government of the Republic has done. It is not difficult for anyone to guess why, in 2019, it was in the state budget that they made a multiple leap compared to what they had in previous years. It's amazing how far it can go at all to buy votes for the taxpayer's own money. 25 million euros! If we are saying that the costs of an election campaign for one party or another are, if I am not mistaken, of EUR 1.5 million, then the government coalition took a dull amount of EUR 25 million for election expenses. I hope that they will also reflect this in their reports when they take stock of the election costs. Of course, there are a number of things inside that are basically justified, but that have been overlooked by all kinds of requests, times, procedures. What do the people or organisations outside this circle have to think about? Whose thighs do they have to cover so they can get that money in 2020? Is this the new norm that the government coalition has brought to our table? I have a pathetic example of Pärnu. Our only medal area from the previous Olympic Games, rowing for long years, as a result of negotiations, received one million euros to build a rowing shed in compliance with all the rules of procedure. But there was no problem in sharing these same roofing money to allocate two and a half times the sum, EUR 2.5 million for the construction of one municipal gym. And here was also the question of the Pöide Church, why can't we allocate EUR 60000? The reply of the Chairman of the Monetary Commission was that it should be decided by experts. Perhaps you can understand the double standards: EUR 60000 must be decided by experts, if EUR 25 million are distributed to the left, there is no need for any expert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U275	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U276	Honourable Riigikogu! I want to start by talking about roads. In the discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs in 2019 on the state budget, it became clear that the government intends to significantly reduce local road resources next year. While EUR 59 million was allocated to local roads in 2016, EUR 66 million in 2017, the budget will be only EUR 51 million next year. This is a reduction of almost 16% at a time when the government is exclaiming that everyone will win and the budget will grow on the brink. At the same time, it is known that prices in Estonia are rising rapidly, including construction prices, procurements are becoming more expensive every year. This means that municipal expenditure on roads will increase, but revenues will decrease and roads can be invested much less than in previous years. The government will reduce the means of road maintenance for municipalities in a situation where the investments needed for local roads should be increased. In recent days, it has also become apparent that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications wants to hand over a number of roads to local governments, the repair and maintenance of which should remain the responsibility of the municipalities, but does not want to contribute the necessary funds in any way. I have been told that the amount involved is almost EUR 8 million. The same sad picture also looks against the budget for public roads and the financing of roads at all. In 2016, 300 million more were spent on roads than in the state budget, this year 10% more. At the same time, the overall public budget volume has increased by 45% over these years, i.e. road money will increase in percentage terms rather less than the total budget volume. This government, the Ratas government, has not been able to stand up for investments, even though there have been strong promises of how investment will be made, the economy is getting started. The ratio to excise duties has also been decreasing at all times, and currently only 57% of excise duties on fuel are levied on roads. At the same time, Kadri Simson and other middle party members must make eloquent speeches, that the municipal budget is important and that at least 75% of the fuel excise duty must go to the roads. Reality is something else entirely. They make a third budget, they reduce investments and road money decreases. Snails and words don't match. My message is: do not take money away from local governments and do not take money off the roads! This is one of the biggest problems our municipalities have. You've been saying a lot that the idea of roofing money is to support local governments, but we all understand it's humor. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U277	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U278	If you actually want to support the regional development of Estonia and local governments, we have 11 regional programmes in the field of the Ministry of Finance. There have been 11 pieces of them for years: a pilot programme for the electricity interconnection of businesses, a dispersal programme, a LTS support scheme, a local initiative programme, a small island programme, etc. There's no extra money found. Just one simple example: a dispersal program. It's a year-old program where the state, local government and local residents put together money to build sewers, roads, electricity connections for individual homes in rural areas. This is needed so that people do not have to move away from the country because of poor living conditions. For this programme, the budget has been EUR 1.2 million, and this amount has been unchanged for years. 1.2 million will then be allocated for this programme, while millions of roofing money will go left-right: a million euros for non-profit institutions that do not even exist, which are not established, without objectives, members. That's where we're gonna throw a million in passing, while the regional programs are frozen. That's ridiculous! Our regional programmes together are smaller than the government's spending this year on roofing money so that the government stays together so that the members of the political parties of the government don't disperse so that everyone gets their little bag before the elections. There has been no spending this amount of taxpayers' money on the electoral campaign of political parties in Estonian history. That's sad. And finally. Kristen Michal wanted me to mention her in my speech. That too is now done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U279	Urmas Kruuse, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U280	Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! While the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was here today, my question about Greece was not put to humiliate the Greeks, but to state a fact that I find rather frightening. If we were in Europe from budgetary discipline, and budgetary discipline is not an end in itself, but an important driver of stability, then now we must follow the example of Greece, which has come ahead of us. It's quite humiliating, both essentially and emotionally. It is about the same as when we watched at Lilleküla Stadium how the Estonian football team fought very well with the Netherlands and other football countries at the best times, and now it has fallen into the muddy. The comparison is exactly the same with regard to budgetary discipline. But what I think is even worse: it seems to me that the current government is like a tracker trying to achieve a number of goals in parallel to please voters, but actually losing both its goals and its goals. Research at the University of Stanford has found that it takes a great deal of time to achieve their goals, and this is a much more ineffective course of action than ordering tasks in order to achieve very clear and firm goals. But I've realized that there's no point in this government hoping for that. The issue of roofing money is so dull that I don't want to talk about it anymore. But some political party chairs are talking about corruption here, and I think this is the biggest public corruption that has recently taken place. The main concern in this regard is that Estonian municipalities, NGOs and organisations have been left in unequal competition and many are unable to compete with their good ideas in order to be funded. Instead, you must know either the Prime Minister or any other member of the government in order to be blessed. And the amount we're talking about is incredible! So instead of taking out excise duties in the government and bringing tax payers' money back to Estonia and not directing our people to Latvia to buy, we are simply distributing money, the purpose of which is not clear to society. This is done under the label of regional policy. We have heard several resounding speeches here about how local governments are supported. A good colleague, Arto, reminded me of the real reduction in road money. The part of personal income tax received by municipalities is shown as a gift, but it is not mentioned that it also entails costs. And it is forgotten that at a time when it was reduced there was a crisis in the Estonian country. Estonia came out of the crisis as one of the best countries, so it was actually a very important decision at the time. Money that could go to create innovation and added value is simply spent simply, burned away. Mr Stalnukhin said that Lasnamägi, too, is concerned that several shops have been closed there. I think if another underground store is closed down in Lasnamägi or Mustamägi, the quality of life of the local people will not change by one gram. There are so many shops around. At the same time, it is not understood that if innovation in Estonia is free transport nowhere, it is the last coffin nail in this sense that rural shops actually die out. They're just dying out because if you get to go to the center for free, you're going there and you're not going to the local store anymore. Some economic logic will work. I don't know, is that the purpose? I don't think that was the goal. I'm not talking about any other consequences. Rural areas have tried to support and say that it has been the best government that has supported rural areas. In my opinion, support for rural areas continues in the same style so that they can carry more money into their pockets. The government has paid EUR 1.3 million in emergency support, despite the worst drought damage in 60 years. A much cursed previous government cost nearly 30 million. But that's not the question. The question is that when people's taxes are raised, more working pensioners are taxed, the distribution of money must be very transparent and wisely focused. As a result, I was very surprised that there was no proposal for emergency support, which would allow regional losses to be taken into account and for this money to be shared in a fairer and more transparent way. But it doesn't seem to matter. When I was trying to understand how the budget of the Ministry of Rural Affairs has been divided by the accuracy of the explanatory memorandum has already received a lot of criticisms here, I had to send an inquiry to the minister and ask how much further development in Estonia will receive support in the coming year. He sent a letter saying that the numbers are basically almost the same as this year, but that is what I will decide at the beginning of next year with my regulation. This actually means that there is no role for Parliament at all. For those stakeholders who have criticised very seriously that entrepreneurs close to the Centre Party receive tens of times more breeding support than other sectors, this is a major problem. I didn't tell you about this government for no reason. There's a very important problem with this rutting. In my opinion, today's government has embarked on this path. Precisely, the brain is destroyed by the mutiny, and when the brain is destroyed, rational decisions are not expected from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U281	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the book we are talking about: 300 pages and more, 11 billion and a little more. There is a huge amount of bills here, up to that point, which are the highest rental prices, where these are the best real estate, for example 180 euros per square metre, but they are not in the centre of Tallinn, they are in the middle of nowhere. Anyone who gives a shit can look into all this. I've read this book many times, but I honestly admit I don't understand very much. And I think a lot of others are joining me, but maybe they don't want to say it. The important thing is to say, oh, I'm in a big spot, and I know how to run the country. In fact, we've retreated to a rubber stamp and we're groping in the dark. In order not to be generic, you could quote Auditor General Janar Holm, who has said this: 'The generalisation and technicality of the state budget law is simply so great that one or the other cost line is no longer seen by the prodigy of accounting. " I am not an accountant, and there are not many accountants among us. The draft law on the state budget is so incomprehensible and general that members of the Riigikogu who wish to cancel a new initiative or direct an amount to, for example, an increase in the salaries of policemen or kindergarten teachers cannot make a proposal. Spending is written in the explanatory memorandum, but the explanatory memorandum is not a law, it is neither changed nor voted in the Riigikogu's plenary. I'm not going to talk anymore, actually the Auditor General sums up quite exactly what it is. I repeat: we grope in the dark, we dare not say it, and we are a rubber stamp, who is told how to vote for and who to vote for. Today is a remarkable day, November 21st. Remember, two years ago, Jüri Ratas, who had been in opposition for ten years, stood here and said that if he gained our trust, he really wants to change the Estonian political culture and lose the idea that the wrong man cannot do the right thing. I asked him, at the time, only members of the Central Party Group, if I understood correctly, that such a roller would no longer be made during his leadership. And Jüri Ratas, who was not then Prime Minister, replied that he thought this was a very important change in political culture. The principle that the wrong man must not do the right thing must not apply. It's been two years, exactly two years, even the time is about the same, a few hours is now later. And of the 57 amendments proposed by the opposition, the Committee on Monetary Affairs ran over everyone as a roller. It's still the same as it used to be. Consequently, political culture has not changed. And I asked that maybe the Prime Minister's culture has changed, but sometimes the Committee on Monetary Affairs makes a road roll. He didn't answer me, but the question is still in the air. So if you're not the right guy, you might have good thoughts, but in any case you'll be run over by a roller. Unfortunately, there is no new political culture. What else? I don't want to talk about roofing money because I've been on that side of the hall and on this side of the hall and I know pretty much how it works. A lot of people have said here before: that's the way it really works. We seem to be running the country. In fact, it's led by a very small group who tells you in time what to do and where to do...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U283	Thank you. Now the truth is out of the question if you don't ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U284	Yeah, a few minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U285	Well, let's give it three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U286	You don't have to talk so much, I've turned down the basics. Political culture has not changed, even though I hoped it would change a few years ago. Of course, there are many good things. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the real saviors that I have met constantly are still afraid of whether they will receive a wage supplement or whether this money will go to the superiors as it has been before. And one of the proposals of the Conservative People's Party was that instead of supporting Greece, 2.5 million could give this amount to savers, for example. They are still very hungry, and now they hope that the wage increase that the current budget has promised will reach the real rescuers, but in fact much more is needed. What has been done with alcohol excise duty and excise duty at all is a separate story. I've been following all this closely. And how did this happen? It all happened here in the Riigikogu, and the reasons were that there was still a long job to be done, but we can look at the analyses. After that, it turned out there were no tests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U287	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U288	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech is driven by the proposals 20 and 40 in the tables of the amendments. No 20 is proposed by the Conservative People's Party Group and this is a sensible proposal. This concerns an area that I think I feel a little better than most other areas of the state budget. This is, in fact, the initiative of the Minister of Justice planned for this year to set up the Institute of State Law, which is still uncreated and, as far as I understand the logic of the government, will not be created. For this year, he had actually been given money. If he is not created, of course, this year's money will not be used, and next year it will not be necessary. The problem here is that this is, in a way, a soft form of state theft, which Mr Reinsalu, who is probably preparing to leave politics, prepares himself and his associates for a soft landing site, future contracts and actions. I think it is necessary to support universities in which it is being dealt with, but not the projects of Mr Reinsalu and his friends, in support of constitutional law. The second proposal, No 40, concerns state support for the restoration of the Church of Tartu. On this subject I also spoke about this speaker last year, but it is quite appropriate to talk it over again, because it is an exceptional question in some sense, but there is a typical problem in this regard. You see, honourable representatives of the people, the state budget is very instructive to all of us in the sense that, as individual people, no one can include all the various necessary activities in a country that needs to be supported every year by the state. There are so many areas that a living person cannot even remember, not to mention the deepening that is needed. The question is how we feel about the country's responsibilities for improving the wounds of our past. This includes the question of what are the greatest needs today, the most important objects that need to be dealt with immediately, and what are the things that can be pushed into the future. My speech here and now is about the past in our present and future. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U289	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U290	When Soviet power broke down in Estonia, the public reconstruction work began. The damage caused by the Second World War and the various subsequent actions or omissions of Soviet power was enormous. Mostly in the first 20 years, almost everything that people could do on their own initiative was restored by putting together their energy and money. So I am not surprised that when I spoke about this issue here once, the Minister of Culture, Saare, reflected a real astonishment that there really was something else that needed to be restored. It's been going on for so long, and why should we do anything else? The main feature of the church of Tartu Mary and, next to the church of Narva Alexander and all similar restorations is that they were not dealt with in time. I mean, when it was normal, when everyone realized it was necessary. In the meantime, generations have changed and the active people of the newer generation, including Mr Saar, who is currently in politics, do not always have an understanding of why some of the things of the past still have to be dealt with. The city of Tartu suffered more in World War II than most other Estonian cities. The restoration of Mary's church was possible only 10 years ago. In 2008, this church building was returned to the congregation. And now the question is how to proceed. I would like to call on you to think that, when it comes to individual exceptions that were not fixed in time, we should not say that we are not going to fix them. In fact, there is a congregation and they have started to work on their own initiative, and I believe that there is a need to support these people. And there's also a slightly wider problem. My groupmate, Krista Aru, said here on the floor that she did not see a 'big idea' in this budget. I would raise the question a little bit more narrowly, but on the same subject: in those areas where we still need to make amends, we should not sit down and discuss it. The question of restoring Tartu Kivisilla is painful, I do not know if a solution will ever be found. The nature of the problem with the rock bridge has been that it prevented any more serious water transport on the Emajõgi River. And if it were restored to its original form, this problem would remain. But think also of this: Estonia's greatest material loss in World War II was the destruction of Narva City. With the wealth of our country, the number of inhabitants, and everything else, if we were to undertake a national programme to restore the city of Narva! For example, we restore one house a year, and that's not impossible! And then, believe me, in a hundred years, the most beautiful historic city in Estonia would be in the north. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U291	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U292	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have wanted to come to the remote, but since I didn't get very good answers from the Commission on the subject, I still thought it was necessary to speak. More specifically, we are talking about the state border and, more specifically, the eastern border. The funds allocated to border construction are in no way in line with what was planned a few years ago. In fact, the general idea was that, for four years in a row, we try to contribute 20 million to the construction of the eastern border each year and, if necessary, human resources must also be taken further to ensure that all these plans are realised. I understand that there may be obstacles to any plan and implementation. But these obstacles cannot be such that border building volumes are reduced so drastically. We have a state budget for 2019 at our reading today. Let us recall a little spring when the government discussed the country's budgetary strategy until 2022. This budget strategy shows that 18 million were planned for 2019, less for 2020, 14 million for 2021, 5 million for 2021 and 0 for 2022. This is a constant decline, although it is precisely the construction of a state border that needs more money every year, because construction volumes are expected to increase in the coming years. While in spring the government was prepared to contribute to the construction of 18 million state borders next year, now in autumn, 6 million more out of this 18 million have disappeared from this winter, with 11.8 million remaining. And to tell you that the eastern border is a government priority, well, friends, doesn't sound believable. If there is a desire to do something and to build something, then it also needs finance. To say that we are not capable of more than that, does not sound credible. If an additional resource is needed, it must be found if more people need to be taken in order to implement these plans, then more people must be taken. But it is politicians who have to give guidance to authorities and officials. When the political order limit is ready to be built, it has to be done and it will also be possible to find money for it. This is a vivid example of the concern about the budget on the table. And if I tie it, I don't know whether arbitraryly or not, with a lot of money from the roof, it's 25 or I don't know how many million will eventually be welded together for third reading, then I wonder if the surprising millions found somewhere have come at the expense of the border, among other things, at the expense of our security. Question remains, no answer. Looking at the numbers, you could say that this is the case: if there are six million, even more, missing from border construction during spring and summer, then that is what is inevitably the case. And similarly, this general number raises the question. I've read various press releases several times, and when I go to the first page of the State Budget Act, I see that the difference between costs and revenues is more than 200 million minus. A simple line reading may not give a full answer, but you could see at least here on the first page, which is still the difference between revenue and expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, given all the speeches that have been made here, and certainly also the speeches that will be made at third reading, I think that there is still work to be done on this budget before we go to third reading. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I will also hand over a paper proposal to interrupt the second reading of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U293	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U294	Dear Chairman, Good members of the Riigikogu! I think this state budget is the face of this government, and it also reflects a little bit of the fact that the elections will be next year. I would like to focus on a serious problem that has been repeatedly addressed here in speeches. Since it is not possible for a person sitting under the window to speak further before the third reading, I am now expressing my serious concern. This concern relates in particular to the fact that the Riigikogu, as the representative of the people, must, in my opinion, intervene this time as the creator of some kind of political culture. I am thinking of the subject of much-spoken roofing money. It is no secret that in the Riigikogu it is over the years that the budget procedure in the Riigikogu is going in any way and that the MPs have a bit of a say, that money is being redeployed. I am not going to speak out as a third person serving as a member of the Riigikogu, but one thing that really worries me is what happened in the Government of the Republic. In particular, EUR 27.5 million was decided at the last moment, after the Minister for Finance, who did his job very well in my opinion, found a certain buffer to make some major political decisions. He found any legal or financial schemes of the order of EUR 30 million, which in fact was simply decided to divide between the three political parties according to the political priorities of each party. It's called sharing the penthouse money. I must admit that not even the Siimann government did such a thing. This is the first time the government of the Republic has done something like this. It is not even a question of money, it is very big. This is a matter of principle precedent, and this precedent is very dangerous. If today's Riigikogu gives a green light to such a precedent, it is the desire of the highest power and very clear approval that in the future, this behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Estonia will continue to be okay. I'm gonna ask everyone to think for a second! I understand that some of the ambassadors are bound by the coalition agreement, but in fact we have each taken an oath here, and we are each free in our principles, our conduct and our decisions, we are based on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and our conscience. Such a precedent, I hope that this Riigikogu, which in my opinion has served the Estonian state very well for four years, will not now pass before the end of the composition. The Reform Party has also tabled Amendment 7 on this subject. Nothing will happen to the Government of the Republic of Estonia, nothing will happen to the foreign policy of the Republic of Estonia, nothing will happen to the Republic of Estonia if we decide to support this particular proposal in this Chamber. It is a 'no' to such a culture, it is a 'no' to decisions by the government which are rushed into various proposals from the backrooms of their own party offices. Since we have so much money, please let's spend it! Even in the most difficult, but even in the best times, no government of the Republic of Estonia has behaved in this way. These temptations have been, I can admit myself that I have seen them too, but I have a serious request to the Riigikogu, no joke, let us not allow such a precedent to happen! This is an excuse for any other similar behaviour in the future, and it makes our budgetary process, precisely at government level, unreliable, closed. It sends a very negative message to all civil society organisations, municipalities, organisations, it also sends a very bad signal to our public authorities, who have requested additional funding under their programmes in our own public procedure. So my appeal is: please, Riigikogu, be it our other stamps, which they are, we have a historic obligation not to legalise this precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U295	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U296	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The state budget is the most important document that will be discussed in this Chamber for next year, and this must also be treated accordingly. I've always tried to take the state budget at least as seriously as my home budget. I am therefore concerned that this document, which comes to us year after year, will become increasingly complex, less transparent. The only people who can read it are the people who have written it down somewhere in the ministry. Members of the Riigikogu also find it difficult to understand this, not to mention the people to whom it is actually intended or to whom it generally affects the people of Estonia. Therefore, the first thing I want in the coming years is for the budgets to be easier to read and more transparent to people. I am also concerned that in good times we are trying to adopt a budget that will live quite firmly at the expense of the difficult times facing us in the coming years. I don't think that's right. Imagine that you must defend your family's budget in front of your family at home and say that, unfortunately, next year's spending will be higher than the income. And you must also explain to them that in the coming years, the economic situation will not be as good, the interest on your bank loan will increase, your liabilities will increase. It makes me very cautious when we spend in good times at the expense of difficult times to come. When we discussed this budget here at first reading and we talked to the Minister outside this Chamber and we talked to other people involved in the budget, they tried to say that the budget was balanced. However, the European Commission's forecast shows a deficit of 0.7%. How do you take who you believe now? I have reason to believe in the European Commission's forecast, and that makes me extremely cautious. As I have said many times: in good times a wise master gathers reserves to survive difficult times. That is why the Reform Party Group has tabled amendments that have been included in many ways in the aim of improving the balance of the state budget. We have put forward a separate draft to reduce excise duties, one of the objectives of which is to put an end to the trade in alcohol that has literally crossed the border, and to increase the tax receipts that we would be able to increase the balance of our budget. We have proposed to reduce the very controversial, incomprehensible and, in fact, very confusing free public transport programme and the public rental programme. In addition, we propose to improve the financing of local governments in such a way as to direct additional resources to the Equalisation Fund, which will help to help municipalities across Estonia more fairly. Right now, we're splattering money to some local governments, whatever we want. We have made a number of other proposals, such as increasing R &amp; D funding, to reach 1% of GDP by 2020. We would like to place emphasis on ensuring that education in Estonian starts actively from kindergarten, so that young people who speak other languages here have the opportunity to succeed in Estonian society. I'd like a minute more, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U297	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U298	In summary, I would like to emphasise once again the three things that I have at my heart in relation to the state budget. Since I take the state budget at least as seriously as the budget I plan for my household at home, I ask that in future the budget documents be simple, transparent and understandable to the people they concern. Secondly, the budget should correspond to the economic situation: if the economy has years of growth, we must not live at the expense of reserves, but rather collect them in order to survive difficult times. And, of course, it's elementary that at these times the budget is at least balanced, if not plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U299	Tiina Kangro, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U300	Ladies and gentlemen, Without being a member of the coalition or of the opposition, I thought I was also talking about the long night that I have followed here word by word. In the last third, there were also speeches that included constructive thoughts, but at first, I had the feeling that I had probably fallen into this house from space. From what I've seen, it's like this whole show is happening somewhere in space, not on earth. It's very familiar, and I don't think there's anyone here who wouldn't have the same idea in better times. We've already seen it, I'm not in this house, but outside the house. There's been some pajamas parties in the state budget discussions and all night in the hall with pillows. And it's all in reverse: now it's just the others who are praising themselves. I remember very well that the members of the previous coalitions similarly praised themselves that the state budget was bigger than last year, stressing everything that was needed. And today the same way they come up with a kitty-faced remote control and talk nicely about what's good done, but of course, there's no talking about troubled places. I'm talking about penthouse money, too. Yes, the moral face of the Riigikogu and the government obviously does not allow for this kind of distribution of money, and so it should probably be terminated by mutual agreement. For me, it is not justified for people to come from the opposition or from the creators of new parties now, look at the list and say this: okay, this 27 million or whatever it was that these and these things might stay, but that's what's bullshit, that's what's to be thrown out, let's put the money there or that. It's not convincing. I can give an example that I also managed to channel EUR 100000 of this year's amount, and I directed it to associations of people with disabilities for a very specific activity, for which we have long been asking for money from the current government and also from the previous, previous and previous government. The aim is for people with disabilities and carers to be able to bring cases relating to problems in the social system to court, so that we can have judicial decisions that are going to change the social system. This has not been sufficiently managed by the current government, neither by the previous, the previous, nor by the previous government. The question now is that, since the EUR 100000 I have been targeting is also in this money, am I also a criminal who buys votes? By this year, I managed to channel EUR 20,000 from the rooftop money to probe-eaters for the purchase of probe food through the medical professional organisation. Seven years, maybe even eight, I've been involved in negotiating with the Health Insurance Fund during different ministers, different coalitions, to make sure people are compensated for probe food. The disability pension for a very sick person is 300 or 350 euros, but the limit for a month of probe food costs 600 euros. This year, these people got some kind of relief. There are not many of these people, and with my strength of persuasion, this year's financial allocation has led us to the fact that, from the new year, the Health Insurance Fund has put these foods on the list of compensatory medicines. I just wanted to give examples that things aren't always what they seem. I remember very well the time we had, before the adoption of the Act on Labour Capacity Reform, labels and other demonstrations of disabled people. And then the members of the coalition at the time, in order to stop the associations from going to the pickets that the civil movement organized, also brought up the money from the roof. There were cases where one or the other politician told the organisations that if you go out, consider that you would not receive this EUR 5,000 or EUR 10,000. Very ugly, isn't it? I know people are using this ugly move, and here I think it's food for thought. But now, from where I wanted to go, everyone's tired. I want to say that hope dies last, I know it, I am not naive, but a person has the right to hope that at some point there will be some reasonable cooperation at the level of the Riigikogu, where it is as important as the administration of the state and the drafting of the state budget. What did we see today? Some propose amendments and others already know in advance that they will not be taken into account. Mikhail Stalnukhin gave me two words of praise today, I should respond in the same way, but I am also forced to be critical of the answers he has read about the questions why the opposition's proposals are not taken into account in order to correct one thing or another. Knowing the social sphere very deeply, I can say that these answers were not justified, they were superficial and not sufficiently argued. Of course I know where they come from. A negative response was needed, and it also came from a government facility somewhere, but I don't think it's a normal form of cooperation. That is why my proposal is also, although someone here explained how bad it is to interrupt the draft state budget procedure, that since hope dies last, let's take a moment and try to do something sensible. I'm in favour of breaking up, and I suggest we be with the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U301	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U302	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am seriously concerned about internal security and, in today's budget discussions, I did not get answers to my concerns and I did not get confirmation that this issue, which is crucial to Estonia, is the security and security of our country, is a priority for the coalition. Looking at the budget, I don't see that priority. In fact, we all know these processes, we know that the police are raising the issue of their staff policy, we know that the rescuers are complaining about their concerns in front of our house, but we hear that the only real priority in the budget is the increase in all wages. Something doesn't make any sense in this picture. I'm not talking about wages. When we are talking about larger projects, the topic 'Estonian-Russian border' was asked and answered today, but the honest answer is why we are reducing investment in the construction of the Estonian-Russian border is still not. There is a table in the budget explanatory memorandum showing the government's planned investments for the next four years, and we can see that this line is falling from the point of view of border investment. I was told that it's a priority for the government, that it doesn't take my mind to see how these two things are connected. There is another problem that I did not have time to ask about today, but the budget at first reading was asked by the Minister of Finance. It's about the National Defence Academy. For years and years, this has been a major challenge. It's finally starting to move, but you're looking at the state budget. Again, the construction investments allocated to our National Defence Academy, this crucial study complex in Tallinn, will fall. I asked the Minister whether internal protection education was a priority. Again, I do not understand: text and picture do not connect. The text is from another movie, the picture shows something else. It does not give certainty to support next year's budget, to support the logic that this budget reflects. Indeed, this is not a political debate, a political debate. This is a very fundamental issue, just as the rhetoric that has sounded here in those days has confirmed that foreign policy is cross-party. Over the years, defence and security policies have maintained the line that politically these issues are not being played, it has been a cross-party decision. Can I get an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U303	You mean an extension for extra time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U304	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, when we decide on this budget, we are probably too late, and today's climate does not allow it, but in the future we could think about cross-party agreements in strategic areas, such as defence, security and foreign policy, quite seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U305	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U306	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Somehow very morbid, all the grey faces and all the morbid talk. I thought I'd say a few words for myself. Listen, do you know where these goals are stated: 'Return the Estonian population to rise, maintain and strengthen security, increase social well-being, take Estonia out of economic stagnation. ' Tomorrow or, more specifically, the day after tomorrow, this government will have two years. These are the main objectives of this government. Four objectives and, of course, many sub-objectives. Four important objectives: population growth, security, the coherence of the Estonian people and exit from economic stagnation. If we look at next year's budget, what do we see? We will see plans to meet these objectives next year. For each of these things, we can say what has been done, and to what extent, to meet these goals in the coming year. I will, for a moment, look at the various macroeconomic and, let's say, the financial figures, of which one of my good colleagues always starts. First of all, the budget balance. It has also been said here today that the budget is, according to the European Commission, 0.7% in deficit. Hey, ladies and gentlemen! Older people know that there has been a difference in the figures that we and the European Commission have presented in the past. It always has been! Today we can say that the budget is structurally balanced, nominally in surplus. In earlier times, it has been said that the tax burden is increasing. Aivar Sõerd has said that the tax burden is increasing. But now nobody's talking about it, I already said it at first reading. Nobody's talking about it because the tax burden doesn't increase. It won't grow next year, it won't grow any further. When we look at what tax policy decisions will be made for next year, we will note one interesting thing: next year, no tax will rise and no new tax will come. Basically, the coalition has said: we have a tax peace. I think it should be passed on not only to the 2019 state budget, but also to the next years. We have seen quite a variety of tax policy debates over the last few years. I believe it is right to say here that, both in the coming year and in the coming years, there should be a situation in which we can say to all citizens and businesses that this is a tax peace. One of the previous speakers said that this coalition has not made any major structural reform. He said so at first reading, and he said so now at second reading. I don't think this coalition has anything to be ashamed of. I also said that at first reading. We have essentially completed the administrative reform; we still have certain financial payments to be made to local governments. Perhaps this priority should have been stronger and perhaps there should have been fewer municipalities, but I think we have done a great deal, given where we were and where we are going. Further: Health reform, organisation of the school network. Hey! Not to mention, of course, one of the biggest things, tax reform. A reform with a price of 150+ million. We have said before and we are saying now: such an expensive reform has not been carried out before. And if it's 150+ million for the state budget, think about who will benefit! It's good for our own people, for those who get low or medium pay. It's a reality. Whether we want it or not, we like it or not, this reform has been implemented and it costs 150+ million. When it comes to politics, I said earlier that the aim is security and population growth and exit from economic stagnation. We will see the highest level of security in all time next year, with almost 600 million going there. More specifically, 585 million is the amount that goes to security in our defence budget. Never been this high before. We don't have to be ashamed of it, we can say it calmly: best level! That's 2.15% of GDP if anyone wants to know the exact percentage. Extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U307	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U308	Thank you. Or when we talk about the government's priority being to bring Estonia's population back to growth. Those aren't just words. The law has already entered into force, and next year we will see financial allocations in order to receive additional exponentially increased support in the event of the birth of a third child. And, by the way, by looking at the latest statistics, I don't know whether it's because of this change or because of some other reason that we have reason to rejoice. It is said that the birth rate of third children has increased by 32%. Whatever the reason, I think a purposeful course of action will lead sooner or later. We are also talking about the economic situation. We can discuss when the economy started to grow, what are the activities that have contributed to it. Listen, our growth is now just over 3%. In my opinion, we should make an effort today to make further use of this potential. We are told that, in fact, our macroeconomic numbers show that we should be at a lower level. We should even cool off the economy a little bit, right? I think we need not be ashamed that we have this level of economic growth. And since I'm also a politician of the Fatherland here on the remote, I'm going to mark some indicators that are important to us. I have already said two things: security has always been important to the Fatherland and children have always been important to the Fatherland. Surely the thing I want to mention is education. Work needs to be done to ensure that more money comes into education. And it is not only the increase in teachers' salaries that is generally a priority for all parties. I mean, at all, the money that goes to education for schools, higher education, science. Look, compare this year, and you'll see there's more money coming. Yes, we can always say that we would like to be even more ambitious, we would like to contribute even more opportunities, but it is always the problem that our wishes are greater than ours. I'd like to sum it up with the words that, really, everything that I said seemed kind of morbid. Listen, this is a budget that has also had a lot of debate with coalition partners. It has been, and I've said it before. But I think the agreement that has been reached on this budget, this financial projection, is one that we do not have to be ashamed of. We can confirm this with a calm heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U309	There is no further wish for negotiations. Still is. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U310	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened to these speeches here for a long time, and he tends to be, that the previous speech was quite parade, reminded Sven Sester of his role as Minister of Finance. It's far from Morbidity. One call was from a coalition representative. Thank you to Kersti Sarapuu for speaking on behalf of the Prime Minister's party, even though this tone of the state budget increases people's well-being, the economy grows, wages increase, everything is fine, the state budget grows a little bit like a different time. However, let's not act like this, so whether we see problems or only report to a bright future depends on who sits or stands on either side of the hall or on which side of the opposition coalition border. A little bit of excise policy. On this subject, too, I noticed a fine nuance. Mrs Sarapuu pointed out how Taavi Kõivas reported on an excellent excise policy planned four years later, which has now become deadlocked. He also stopped a bit on the Green Paper on alcohol policy, which provided for a sluggish rise. And then Mr Kivimägi came to speak as the representative of the Reform Party, who recalled the damage caused by excise duties and the effect of increasing drinking. It occurred to me that Mr. Clothes used to talk about the tax treatment of vices. So our position still depends on where we are. I'm sorry about all this. Now the budget as such. One general comment is that priorities do not seem very clear or, if they are, not exactly those that look to the future by investing in education and economic development. There has been some talk about R &amp; D here, but yes, there is, unfortunately, no overall sustainability line. At today's conference, too, quite a lot was said about our country becoming more and more complicated. It's getting harder and harder to control all kinds of ticking. If some sort of tick activity has been launched in a country that maybe originally had a point, then if it has somehow deviated from the country's basic functions at one point, it is difficult to turn these things off in hell and that has not been done by different governments. Today, the sources of cover have been criticised, but if we look at the structure of the state budget, we simply do not find possible places to find the sources of cover. This has also been pointed out by some eloquent questions to Mr Stalnukhin. On the one hand, we are talking solemnly about the need to increase the role of the Riigikogu, but on the other hand, it is ridiculous for such a budgetary procedure. That's not how it works. Now a little bit of the penthouse money. I liked Margus Tsahkna's inspired speech. Perhaps it would have been even more pleasant if he had more clearly admitted that roofing money had been shared in the same way in the past. But his speech was very clear and understandable to me. I also liked Tiina Kangro's speech on the same subject, which in some ways pointed to what is the role of a member of the Riigikogu in relation to the state budget. To be honest, the Free Party has tried to view it one way and the other way. Are you gonna accept the roofies and direct them for a good purpose or not accept them, and you're the fool who doesn't decide anything? It's bad both ways. Finally, however, I would like to make it very clear that writing roof money directly into the state budget is much more immoral by the government than if the members of the Riigikogu have any opportunity to participate in the budget. For this comment, I ask for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U311	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U312	It must be acknowledged that the Free Party has pointed out that if these proposals come from the Committee on Monetary Affairs' table to the third reading, this is the darkest way in which any of these proposals can arrive. Therefore, please do not be surprised that we have also formalised these small and tiny things for second reading as amendments so that it is visible from the start. Of course, we would have liked them to have gone through. Perhaps I am not voting on all of them here, but the call is: if we are dealing with such an important matter here, everything should be transparent from the start. Things should be discussed in the second reading of the state budget as separate amendments, not as is the case today. And this allocation of a million by the government of 27 commas now really opens up a new level to which I do not recommend the Riigikogu to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U313	Dear Riigikogu, now I must first explain why I do this. Since I understand that both Aivar Sõerdi, a member of the Riigikogu, and I have the understanding that during the negotiations Sven Sester touched Aivar Sõerd's identity, I am giving him the right to object. I don't know if Sester named her, but since we understand the same thing, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U314	Thank you. It's just that he named it, or I wouldn't have asked for a say in it. But what Sester said was that the tax burden next year wouldn't grow, it's not something to brag about. The point is that the tax increases of the current power union have already reached prices. Otherwise, we would not be at the absolute top of the European Union ranking with our price increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U315	Okay, I'm calling off the negotiations. Dear Riigikogu, we are reviewing 700 amendments to second reading. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, taking full account. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, disregarding. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U316	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U317	Please! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been disregarded by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 2 was voted for by 31 votes to 50 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 3 is tabled by the Group of the Reform Party without taking into account. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U318	I would like to ask you to vote on this good amendment and before this four-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U319	Thank you. Four minutes break. Please do not comment! That's enough voting, everybody gets it. Break four minutes. We'll proceed at 8:26.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U320	Honourable Riigikogu, the break taken by the Reform Party Group is over. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. The third amendment is for 41 and against 50 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; this has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U321	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. This is a proposal by which we would stop financing the waking up from the President's office. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U322	Thank you. Please do not comment! That's enough if I find out if you want to vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U323	If you hadn't bothered me, you would have heard me wishing for a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U324	Thank you. I'll stay in the middle of it if you talk for a long time. It is sufficient for you to state whether you want to vote or not to understand everything immediately. I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. The fourth amendment was for 9 and 68 members of the Riigikogu were against, with 2 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 5 is tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, decision of the commission: disregard. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U325	Thank you. I ask you to vote for it and...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U326	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 5...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U327	I'm sorry, but I'm not finished! And before the vote, I would like to ask for five minutes of recess, because four minutes were short for people and there was noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U328	Thank you. Everything makes sense. Sorry to interrupt. Break five minutes. We'll proceed at 8:33 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U329	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 5 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 39 votes in favour of the fifth amendment and 51 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party; the lead committee has not taken account of it. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U330	I would ask for the sixth amendment to be voted on and there will be no intermission before this six-minute period. Thank you. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U331	I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. The sixth amendment was voted in favour of 32 and there were 48 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party; this was not taken into account by the commission. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U332	I would like to ask for the seventh amendment to be voted on. And before that, we still need six minutes to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U333	I thought it was a recess. Break six minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U334	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 7 tabled by the Reform Party Group, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the seventh amendment, 49 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 8 is tabled by Aivar Sõerd and the commission has failed. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U335	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U336	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 8, tabled by Mr Sõerd, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 21 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the eighth amendment, 50 against and 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 9 is tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the decision of the lead committee: to be disregarded. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U337	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U338	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U339	Thank you. I'll ask for seven minutes before the break.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U340	Break seven minutes. We'll proceed at 8:52.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U341	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The ninth amendment has 43 votes against and 50 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 10 is tabled by the Reform Party Group; this has not been taken into account by the commission. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U342	I would like to ask you to vote on this tenth proposal. There's no need for a break. I believe there is a consensus here on education in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U343	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 10 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the lead committee has failed and there is no need for a break. Please take a stand and vote. Quiet, please! There are 42 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the tenth amendment and 50 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Dear Riigikogu, please respect colleagues during the vote, you can comment later: today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Thank you. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Riigikogu, if I may disturb you, I propose to you Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been disregarded by the leading committee. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; this has not been taken into account by the commission. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U344	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for a vote on this proposal in support of doctoral studies. And before the vote, I ask for five minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U345	Break five minutes. We'll proceed at 9:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U346	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 12 of the Estonian Free Party Group. The decision of the Governing Commission was not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 35 delegates, with 50 against. The proposal was not supported. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yes, please! Is it...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U347	A procedural question: could you check the voting system? The previous amendment, the content of which was that money would be taken free of charge and given to education in Estonian, was marked with the vote against the IRL. Is that possible? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U348	A lot is possible today, but the voting system is definitely controlled. Can we continue? Jürgen Ligi, are you okay? May I? Thank you. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U349	Thank you, Mr President. The Free Party Group is asking for this proposal, which supports kindergarten, to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U350	I am voting on Amendment 13 of the Estonian Free Party Group. The decision of the Governing Commission was not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 16 votes in favour and 49 against, with one abstention. The amendment by the Estonian Free Party Group was not supported. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U351	Thank you. I ask for the 14th motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U352	Colleagues will understand that since we are at the stage of voting procedures, we can proceed immediately. Thank you. I am voting on Amendment 14 of the Estonian Free Party Group. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 16 in favour and 52 in favour of the proposal, with two abstentions. The amendment by the Estonian Free Party Group was not supported. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Amendment 16 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U353	Thank you, Mr President. In this proposal, the source of cover is even more important than the target. We do not understand why this institute of constitutional law is being established. We ask for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U354	That's what we're gonna do. I would just like to remind you that, in the case of voting procedures, we will refrain from making longer comments. Though let's face it, sometimes it'd be a good reminder, but that's what we've ever agreed. I am voting on the amendment tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. Please take a stand and vote. The decision of the Governing Commission was not to be taken into account. The proposal was supported by 36 and against 49 delegates. Amendment 17 of the Estonian Free Party Group was not supported. I am improving myself: proposal No 16 was not supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is not taken into account. Amendment 18 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U355	Thank you. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on and to support the capacity of the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U356	I am voting on Amendment 18 of the Estonian Free Party Group, which the commission decided not to take into account. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members supported the proposal and 51 were opposed. The Estonian Free Party Group's proposal No 18 was not supported. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the commission has decided not to take into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U357	Thank you. I would like to vote on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U358	We vote on Amendment 19 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 8 members and 68 were opposed. Amendment 19 of the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. Amendment 20 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U359	Thank you. To save taxpayers' money, I'd like to vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U360	We'd all like to vote now. I am voting on Amendment 20 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Now we'll take your opinion into account. There were 45 and 50 ambassadors in favour of the proposal. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 21 is tabled by Olga Ivanova, decision of the commission: disregard. It is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Amendment 22 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the commission failed. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U361	Thank you, manager. Please vote and support the Defence League!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U362	I am voting on Amendment 22 of the Estonian Free Party Group. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 30 votes in favour and 51 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23 has been tabled by Olga Ivanova, the commission failed. The proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with the relevant section of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 24 is from Olga Ivanova, decision of the commission: disregard. It is also not voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Amendment 25 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U363	Thank you. NO99 theatre will be closed, but a million euros will come from the state budget. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U364	I am voting on Amendment 25 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 votes in favour and 55 against, with four abstentions. Amendment 25 of the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. [[Someone sneezes over and over again.]] Cheers! Amendment 26 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U365	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U366	I shall put to the vote Amendment 26 tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 8 members and 74 were opposed, with 1 abstention. The proposal of the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. Amendment 27 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U367	Thank you, Mr President. In order to be able to support singing and dance parties, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U368	I am voting on the amendment tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. Despite this comment, the decision of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 49 were in favour of this amendment and 49 were also against. The amendment did not receive any support, however. The 28th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the decision of the commission: disregard. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U369	Thank you, Mr President. The previous vote encourages me to put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U370	It's getting exciting. I am voting on Amendment 28 of the Estonian Free Party Group. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour by 19 votes to 52 with three abstentions. Amendment 28 of the Estonian Free Party Group was not supported. Amendment 29 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U371	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U372	I shall put to the vote Amendment 29 tabled by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Take a stand and vote, please! There were 17 votes in favour and 53 against, with two abstentions. Amendment 29 tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. Amendment 30 has been tabled by Urmas Kruuse, decision of the commission: disregard. This proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with the relevant section of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Its section number is 106. Amendment 31 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U373	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U374	I am voting on Amendment 31 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 11 members and 56 were opposed, with 1 abstention. Amendment 31 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia was not supported. Amendment 32 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the decision of the commission: to be disregarded. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U375	Thank you. I'd really like to take away the money from Rail Baltic. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U376	I am voting on Amendment 32 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 9 members and 76 were opposed. Amendment 32 of the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. Amendment 33 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U377	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this too!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U378	I am voting on Amendment 33 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Now we await your decision. Please vote! The proposal was supported by 10 members and 62 were opposed, with 1 abstention. Amendment 33 of the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. The 34th amendment was tabled by Aivar Sõerd, decision of the commission: disregard. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U379	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U380	I shall put to the vote Amendment 34, authored by Mr Sõerd. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members supported the proposal and 50 opposed it. Amendment 34 could not be accepted. The 35th amendment is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the decision of the commission: to be disregarded. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U381	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this too!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U382	I am voting on Amendment 35 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 16 and was opposed by 57 delegates. Amendment 35 tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. 36th amendment is tabled by Olga Ivanova, decision of the commission: disregard. The amendment is not to be voted in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The 37th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the decision of the commission: to be disregarded. Just in case, I took a break. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U383	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U384	I shall put to the vote Amendment 37, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 39 members and 52 were opposed, with 1 abstention. Amendment 37 was not supported. 38th amendment tabled by Urve Tiidus, decision of the commission: disregard. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U385	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U386	I shall put to the vote Amendment 38 of the Urve Tiidus. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members supported the proposal and 51 were opposed. Amendment 38 was not supported. Amendment 39 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U387	Thank you! I ask you to vote on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U388	I am voting on Amendment 39 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 17 and 56 delegates opposed. Amendment 39 was not supported. Amendment 40 is a decision of the Estonian Free Party Group, a decision of the commission: to be disregarded. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U389	Thank you, Mr President. I ask you to vote and support the Church of Mary of Tartu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U390	And as if it wasn't enough, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U391	Thank you. I would support it, but I think it is illegal, because it undermines the budgetary balance. There is a financial transaction on the one hand and a cost on the other. You can't really vote on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U392	Everyone in this hall right now will make their decision. We will vote on Amendment 40 of the Free Party, perhaps knowing a little in advance how Jürgen Ligi will vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 18 and 49 delegates in favour of the proposal. Proposal No 40 of the Estonian Free Party Group was not supported. Amendment 41 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U393	Thank you. Please vote and support Kodukanti!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U394	I am voting on Amendment 41 of the Estonian Free Party Group. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Take a stand and vote, please! 10 members voted in favour of the proposal and 52 against. Amendment 41 of the Estonian Free Party Group was not supported. Amendment 42 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Amendment 43 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Amendment 44 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Amendment 45 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Amendment 46 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. The 47th amendment is also from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the decision of the commission: disregard. The 48th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the decision of the commission: to be disregarded. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U395	I would ask you to support this proposal. It supports pensioners living alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U396	I am voting on Amendment 48 of the Estonian Reform Party Group. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Despite the gentleness of Mr Jürgen Ligi's comment this time, he voted in favour of 39 and against 50 delegates. Amendment 48 was not supported. Amendment 49 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U397	I ask you to vote on whether to take money from radical faminists in the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U398	I am voting on Amendment 49 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 9 members and 58 were opposed, with 1 abstention. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 50 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U399	Thank you, Mr President. I ask you to vote on this in order to support families of children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U400	I am voting on Amendment 50 of the Estonian Free Party Group. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. I interrupt the vote, I didn't notice. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U401	This is an important issue for this vote. I hope the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will also remove the flaps. I do not think that illegal amendments should be sent to the Chamber, those that undermine the budgetary balance are unexploited. This is already a number of things that we are voting on and which have passed through the Commission for some reason, but it cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U402	We are working for this reason because it has just come through the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And it is up to you now whether or not you support it. I didn't see the chairman of the committee have anything in his ear. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 50 of the Estonian Free Party Group. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 48 and against 49 delegates. Amendment 50 was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have a few amendments to examine. I wish you strength and rapture. And if possible, let's take some volume back. Amendment 51 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U403	Thank you, Mr President. We ask that the subsidies for those who are partially employed be stopped and that we vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U404	I am voting on Amendment 51 of the Estonian Free Party Group. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was supported by 22 and opposed by 48 delegates. Amendment 51 of the Estonian Free Party Group was not supported. Amendment 52 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U405	Thank you, Mr President. We ask you to vote on this proposal, which is to support care insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U406	I shall put to the vote Amendment 52, which was tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 22 were in favour of the proposal and 50 were opposed. The amendment was not supported. The 53rd amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the decision of the commission: disregard. Amendment 54 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U407	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U408	I shall put to the vote Amendment 54 of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Now we await your decision. Amendment 17 was supported and not supported by 51 delegates, with three abstentions. Amendment 54 of the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. Amendment 55 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U409	Thank you. We want to call off the wasteful and corrupt foreign aid of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U410	I am voting on the amendment of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 8 members in favour and 77 in favour of the amendment, with one abstention. Amendment 55 of the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. Amendment 56 is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, decision of the commission: disregard. Amendment 57 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: disregard. The 58th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U411	Please vote on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U412	I am voting on Amendment 58 of the Estonian Reform Party Group. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Now we await your decision. The proposal was supported by 42 and was not supported by 48 delegates. Amendment 58 of the Estonian Reform Party Group was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments to draft 700 have been examined. There are two similar proposals to the chairman: from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and from the Estonian Reform Party Group. They propose that the second reading of the draft State Budget Act of 2019 be interrupted. We will vote on this proposal, or rather on these overlapping proposals. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of two political groups, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft National Budget Act of 2019 700. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members were in favour of the proposal and 51 were against it. The two groups' proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft state budget was not supported. I will set the deadline for the submission of 700 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U413	First reading of the draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please waitress! It's too early to clean the drawers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U414	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to you a draft law amending the Credit Institutions Act and other laws. The wider objective of the proposal is to increase financial stability and to ensure the integrity and transparency of the financial sector. Therefore, changes to the draft should increase legal certainty and clarity for investors and bank clients. The main changes to the draft are as follows: First, the draft regulates the order in which the claims of the bank's creditors will be satisfied if the bank becomes insolvent. The general rule that is already in force is that, in the event of a bank's insolvency, the claims secured by the pledge will first be satisfied, the unsecured claims and, last but not least, shareholders will participate in the distribution of the remaining assets. The draft specifically specifies the order in which unsecured claims are to be met, as they may be divided into classes. In general, these requirements relate to the lending of money between banks and other financial institutions. The draft precisely sets out the conditions for debt claims that will be satisfied before the claims of subordinated loan holders are met and when shareholders participate in the distribution of existing assets. Investors of such loans will know exactly what their liability will be if the bank becomes insolvent as a result of the changes. At the same time, banks will remain free to issue debt securities of different senior grades when setting these requirements. The amendments relating to the order in which debt claims are met are based on the European Union Directive, which was approved during the Estonian Presidency. Secondly, the draft clarifies the requirements for bank managers. There are already higher requirements for bank managers than for managers of ordinary companies. For example, the current law provides that a person must have the necessary knowledge, skills, experience, education, professional fitness and an impeccable business reputation to manage a bank. The Bank's management board must have at least three members and the board member must have a higher education and at least three years' professional experience. As a new requirement, the draft stipulates that the elected driver must have sufficient time to carry out his duties. In essence, this means that the main job of the bank manager must be the day-to-day management of the bank; he should not devote too much time to other activities. However, this does not mean that any other activity is prohibited for the bank manager. For example, he may give lectures at a university to a reasonable degree. It also provides for a new requirement for a person wishing to become a bank manager to fit in with the board of directors in terms of knowledge, skills and experience. Such a requirement of suitability shall include, inter alia, honesty, reliability and independence. In addition, it provides that the collective competence of the bank's management body should also be ensured. This means that the entire board should not collectively have too one-sided knowledge, skills or experience. Managers should have a sufficiently different background to cover the assessment and understanding of all risks associated with the Bank's operations. The draft also complements the basis for the remuneration of board members and executives of the Bank. In particular, it specifies the conditions under which severance payments can be paid to bank employees. The general rule is that failures must not be rewarded in any way. The requirements for managers are also based on European Union law. More specifically, the European Commission has analysed the compliance of Estonian banking law with European Union law and has found that Estonia must specify the requirements for bank managers. Thirdly, the draft amends which other legal entities the bank can join. Under the current law, a bank may only join another bank; it is prohibited to join other persons. However, there is no such restriction in European Union law. The draft thus allows a bank established in Estonia to join non-banks in the future, such as a financial institution or an IT company. However, in order to mitigate the risks, the condition remains that the person to be joined must belong to the same group as the bank. The Financial Supervision Authority must also approve such a merger. This change should ensure the competitiveness of the Estonian banking sector as compared to other Member States, as it is known that there is no such prohibition of accession in most Member States. In addition, the draft introduces a number of other changes, but not so substantive. For example, the capital requirements of banks and investment firms and the basis for resolution will be clarified. The draft also specifies the cooperation of the Guarantee Fund with guarantee schemes of other Member States of the European Union and with the institutions of the European Union. In addition, the protection of ordinary depositors will be improved. In particular, if a bank joins another bank, it is possible, under the current rules, to require the depositor to transfer the amount of its deposit to an account suitable for him. The bill also provides for the possibility to withdraw the deposit in cash. In summary, however, the implementation of the new regulation in Estonia will not bring about major changes in practice and the law should enter into force at the beginning of 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U415	There are questions for the Minister. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U416	Thank you, Minister. When reading this bill, we cry in turn with laughter. This is the most authentic example of the absurd overregulation of the European Union, when we have a paragraph that says that the bank manager has to deal with management, he must have enough free time to do so. Do any of you have any idea that we have some big, billion-dollar bank where they hire a director who doesn't really work? Well, why put such a thing in the law? But I am more interested in another point, which says that the councils and boards of these institutions must be sufficiently diverse. I also asked the Commission what this'sufficient diversity' means. Does this mean that there must be a nigger, a lesbian, and a one-legged, or is it enough for some people to love wine and others to have beer? Where are the criteria that control it and how will it be fined? I can see how the story of striped lists comes into Estonian law without even understanding it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U417	Thank you for your question. The current law already states that the composition of the bank's management must be diverse, which is not a new requirement for us either. One of the main objectives of this requirement is to avoid an excessive spread of "group thinking" within the Bank's management and board, which may contribute to excessive risk-taking. That is why the principle of "diversity" needs to be established in the bank. The requirement of diversity may in the first instance relate to gender differentiation, but this is not the main issue in this case. This does not mean any provision for gender quotas. In practice, it should rather provide management with a sufficiently broad knowledge and experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U418	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good minister! Doesn't this thing still seem like a replacement activity to you when we already have nice requirements for both bank boards and managers? But the question is also this: how can the Estonian state intervene in the selection of the head of the Swedish bank, force him to work every day and even look at his qualifications? After all, this is not a bank under Estonian administration. How can we run this Swedish bank?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U420	Thank you. The Estonian state is still dealing with its own banks and we are now harmonising such a common understanding in the European Union. The risks that have been referred to here are, in fact, present in some countries. And this requirement for drivers to work is not simply taken from the sky, so there have been problems in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U421	Martin Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U422	Thank you. This is not convincing, therefore, that there have been problems in practice. In fact, we know from internships that officials are sitting somewhere sucking the pen out of the problems they'll solve. If you are saying that we already have it, why are we being sold with this bill saying that we have a breach of the directive that we need to resolve quickly and quickly right now? If we have all this, we cannot have a breach of the directive. Therefore, new things are brought to our legitimacy and these new things are very different. Among other things, certain left-wing ideology, gender science, diversity ideology have been clearly introduced here, and this is being placed in credit institutions. I asked the Commission where, regrettably, you had sent an official for yourself to explain how the next financial crisis could be prevented by the fact that there are people on bank boards with different levels of education. Do we take in the place of 60-year-old doctors, 20-year-olds with high school education, and this will help prevent the next bank crisis? Or what's the point of this whole thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U423	Thank you. The point is, however, that the management of banks is more broad-based. There are, in fact, substantive changes in this draft, such as the order in which the claims of the bank's creditors are satisfied, and the fact that the bank may continue to join other legal entities. For example, at the moment there is no such option: the bank can only join the bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U424	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U425	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, do you not think that if you come out here with such revolutionary ideas that the leaders of the institution must work and have a sufficiently diverse background, perhaps it could be extended? Why stop halfway or just stop at banks? Why don't the government pick up and make us a proper bill that every institution, every company's executives, finally have to start working? And maybe there's some way we could set it up for the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U426	Thank you. That's a very good suggestion. I would even start from a higher level than the Riigikogu. Why not try here first how this regulation works and then expand it down? But the joke is, in fact, the risks and effects in the banking sector are greater than elsewhere. When a private company makes its own business, it risks its own money, but the impact on banks is much wider. That is why it is also understandable that regulation there is much more detailed, comprehensive and stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U427	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. To continue with the previous questions, I have this question: once these requirements are introduced, what can be done, what must this diversity be and how much can the university teach to have a reasonable degree, etc., who will supervise the whole procedure? What happens if someone doesn't think it's exactly what the bill says it is? Would you describe this practical situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U428	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U429	Thank you. Credit institutions are supervised by the Financial Supervision Authority. And as I said here in my previous speech, the Financial Supervision Authority will largely monitor these issues as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U430	Thank you very much to the Minister for his presentation and answers. The presentation by Dmitri Dmitriev, member of the Monetary Commission, will be made by the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U431	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft, including on 13 November. As representatives of the initiators, the draft was presented by Thomas Honourable and Chief Specialist Helen Korju-kuul, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. A representative of the Ministry of Finance noted that the draft transposition of Directive 2017/2399 of the European Parliament and of the Council actually amends Directive 2014/59. This means that the directive will have to be transposed into national law by the Member States of the European Union by 29 December at the latest. The bill changes quite a few laws. For example, it was asked whether substantive changes were made to the Guarantee Fund Act. It was answered that the draft provides for an obligation for the Guarantee Fund to cooperate with guarantee funds from other countries by concluding corresponding cooperation agreements with them. Agreements are necessary in case of a loss occurring in a bank that has a branch in another country, so that deposits can also be quickly paid out to depositors in that branch. There was also a question of what is meant by the concept of 'defining sufficient time to perform a task', which was already a little discussed here. It was answered that this is a principle-based provision that aims to ensure that the bank manager does not assume too many non-working obligations that would prevent the focus on management and risk assessment. The Commission noted that the bank's welfare is primarily the responsibility of its owners and that there is no need for excessive regulation by the European Commission. In response, it was explained to the members of the Commission that the European Commission is putting this obligation on its owners, but the owners should ensure that the manager they have appointed is adequately involved in the management of the bank and is not engaged in ancillary activities. The opinion was expressed that the wording of the draft should be improved in those parts concerning the composition of the board of directors and the board of directors resulting from the election or appointment of directors, the same principle of diversity was already mentioned in this Chamber by Martin Helme and the restrictions on the manager working in other companies, i.e. the same sufficient time resources and motivation to deal with matters relating to the management of credit institutions. At the same time, it was noted that duplication of the legal provisions already in place in other laws should also be avoided. In summary, during a long discussion, the chairman of the committee proposed to review the problem areas in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, prepare amendments if necessary and continue working with them after the first reading of the draft. It was therefore decided that the first reading should be closed and that the deadline for amendments should be set at 5.15 p.m. on 29 November. The decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U432	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. I will open negotiations to the representatives of the political groups, if that is what you want. It's not there. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of 750 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U433	First reading of draft 751 of the Riigikogu decision "Replacement of capital subscribed by the United Kingdom in the European Investment Bank' submitted by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U434	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! By approving the decision, the Riigikogu agrees that Member States will replace the capital subscribed by the United Kingdom in the European Investment Bank in proportion to their participation on the occasion of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Upon withdrawal from the European Union, UK membership of the European Investment Bank will cease and the subscribed capital of the United Kingdom will therefore no longer be part of the Bank's share capital. The Bank has proposed to replace this part in proportion to the national share of the bank's capital. The replacement takes place at the expense of the bank's reserves, no money being charged to the Member States. The share capital subscribed by the European Investment Bank is over EUR 243 billion. The share of Estonian capital in the European Investment Bank, or subscribed capital, is EUR 173020000, which is 0.071% of the Bank's total capital. Following the implementation of the proposal, Estonia's participation is EUR 206248240, or 0.085%. Growth is EUR 33,2 million. Estonia's participation in the bank is increasing, but Estonia does not really have to pay up the bank's capital. The subscribed capital shall consist of paid-up and callable capital. According to the Bank's articles of association, the share of paid-up capital is close to 8,9% of the state's subscribed capital. The United Kingdom has paid up nearly EUR 3.5 billion of subscribed capital of some EUR 39 billion in the Bank's share capital, which the bank will have to return to them once it has withdrawn from the European Union. This part is covered by the Bank's reserves and will not be charged to the Member States. The decision does not affect the balance of the national budget as no direct contribution is required from the Member States. Capital will be replaced at the expense of the European Investment Bank's reserves. Estonia acquires financial assets and is not taken into account in the calculation of the deficit. The change in the capital of the Bank shall enter into force once it has been approved unanimously by all the members of the Bank and when the United Kingdom withdraws from the European Union. If Member States do not accept the replacement of capital, the bank's capital will fall from its current level, from EUR 243 billion to EUR 204 billion, or EUR 39 billion. With a lower capitalisation, the bank will not be able to meet the shareholders' desired objectives and loan volumes. AAA credit rating, which is important for the Bank's operations, may also fall, reflecting its confidence in its financial capacity and its strategic importance. A high credit rating is necessary in order for the bank to continue to be able to raise funds from the markets at favourable interest rates, which in turn allows the bank to offer low-interest loans to its customers. Between 2004 and 2018, the Estonian public sector and private companies have taken loans from the European Investment Bank amounting to nearly 2.4 billion euros, or approximately 171 million euros a year. Estonia's participation in the bank is similar in size. The loan has been used to co-finance European Union funds, to develop energy, transport, agriculture, forestry, fisheries, education, telecommunications and other sectors and services, including waste water treatment and urban development. For example, the City of Tartu is currently discussing with the European Investment Bank the possibility of financing infrastructure, education, sport, social and health care and cultural heritage protection under the Tartu Investment Plan, with a total of about 20 million euros. E-milk wants to expand the dairy industry in order to remain competitive, totalling around EUR 26 million. Thanks to the EFSI guarantee, smaller companies such as Skeleton Technologies, which is active in the production of supercapacitors, have also received loans from the European Investment Bank. This company has a loan of around EUR 15 million. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U435	Any questions for the Minister? There aren't any. Thank you very much for the waitress. The presentation of the commission is made by Taavi Rõivas, Vice-Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U436	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Finance Committee at its meeting on 13 November, and Riina Laigo, adviser to the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented it to us as the initiator's representative. As the Minister spoke very thoroughly about the draft, I will not repeat its content. I can only confirm that, just as the Minister said, this bill was presented to us as well. Rather, the Commission was asked about general informational issues, which projects will be funded from the EIB. Minister Tõniste has already mentioned a number of examples in his speech. As a general principle, it may also be necessary to clarify that the European Investment Bank has a very wide scope of activity: almost all areas are funded, except for projects for military purposes. The Commission took the following decisions: a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 21 November and to conclude the first reading, to set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 November and to appoint Taavi Rõivas as rapporteur for the Commission. All decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U437	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much for the waitress. I will open negotiations for the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 751 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U438	First reading of draft 744 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations'. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U439	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will bring to you a series of mandates for discussion and processing for the next year to send our troops to various international operations, on the one hand, and the mandates that are needed to ensure that a certain part of our troops are in constant readiness, on the other hand, ready to go to operations that require a rapid response. This first mandate is such a 'preventive mandate'. Just as in the last three years, we are now seeking a mandate for a possible first and urgent contribution to another international military operation led by NATO or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations, with up to 50 Defence Forces. The exact contribution of Estonia and the size of the unit will, of course, depend on the needs of the specific operation as well as our possibilities. With this decision of the Riigikogu, we can ensure a rapid and flexible contribution to Estonia's international military operation of importance in security policy, if necessary. The basis and limit of the mandate for the use of the Defence Forces shall be decided by the Government of the Republic, taking into account the position of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. So the Government of the Republic will decide on this on the basis of your mandate. The mandate comes from the need to respond as flexibly as possible to a situation that could escalate rapidly, where the security policy interest of Estonia requires the use of Defence Forces units. Just as we hope and expect to be helped as quickly as possible, we must also have the opportunity to help our allies quickly. I will also say here that we are talking about completely extreme situations; in a standard situation, we are not using this mandate. We have had this mandate for three years and we have never used it in this three year period. So this request is for the fourth year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U440	Any questions for the Minister? There aren't any. Thank you very much for the waitress. Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U441	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! On the basis of the draft, the participation of up to 50 Estonian Defence Forces in the international obligations of the Estonian state will be decided on the first contribution of NATO or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation under the UN, as has already been said. As in the past few years, we apply for your mandate under § 34 (4) of the National Defence Act. We are then talking about the first contribution to the military operation and the other international operation, which is run by NATO, its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. This may be called the use of either an exemption mandate or a preparedness mandate. This concerns in particular the critical need, i.e. time-critical situations where a Defence Forces unit needs to be deployed quickly. This special mandate has never been used by the Government of the Republic. You will already hear from the next speakers about all the operations and other mandates that will come forward in the visible future. If we increase the use of the Defence Forces, for example, in Afghanistan or somewhere else, they will be covered by separate mandates. We are not talking about a large unit, but it is theoretically possible that such a need arises: if the aforementioned organisations or our allies could need help, the expulsion of an entity with such a dimension should take place as soon as possible. Further use of the Defence Forces in the same operation will be decided in general accordance with § 34 (1) of the National Defence Act, which we are used to here in the Riigikogu. The members of the National Defence Committee were presented at the meeting on 12 November by the representatives of the Defence Minister Jüri Luik, who was standing right before you, the representatives of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. Now to procedural decisions. The National Defence Committee decided on its s. a At the meeting on 12 November, by consensus, the Riigikogu Board will be asked to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu today, that is, 21 November, and to make the first reading to you, ladies and gentlemen, i.e. the Riigikogu, to conclude the draft here. A rapporteur for the draft committee was appointed here. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U442	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much for the waitress. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for submitting 744 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U443	First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq'. Please, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U444	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is a NATO mission in Iraq. This is a consultative mission which was set up at the Alliance's Brussels Summit and whose main function is to assist Iraqi troops with advice and force. Iraqi officials will be consulted. In particular, military instructors will be trained and advised in the Iraqi Ministry of Defence with the aim of supporting Iraq in building more effective defence structures. Participation in this mission gives Estonia the opportunity to help actively address threats from the southern wing of the alliance, contribute to NATO's collective security and support partner countries in the fight against terrorism. To clarify so much, NATO had a mission in Iraq before, but it was'mobile', i.e. mission experts went on a mission in Baghdad, figuratively speaking. Now NATO decided to set up a mission on the ground. We request a mandate from the Riigikogu to send five members of the Defence Forces there. In this case, we will only fill two places, but we are asking for a somewhat higher mandate, because it will give us some flexibility if necessary. One of these experts is a counter-IED specialist, an expert in the fight against IEDs, and the other is a military police officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U445	There are no questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. Anneli Ott, Member of the National Defence Commission, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U446	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the draft, up to five Estonian Defence Forces will be decided to participate in NATO's mission to Iraq. A new non-combat mission to support training and defence capacity building in Iraq was set up at the NATO Summit on 11.12. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The mission will focus on training in the following areas: combating improvised explosive devices, military medicine, civilian and military planning, and repair and maintenance of armored vehicles. The first two are the most critical areas where the Iraqi security forces have the capacity to address which Iraq has formally requested the support of NATO's allies. Thus, on the basis of Estonia's draft, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from NATO membership. NATO's mission in Iraq is more broadly directed to the alliance against threats from the south and Estonia's participation is in line with our security and foreign policy interests. As this NATO mission may change in time and resource terms according to Iraq's training needs, the maximum number of members of the Defence Forces set out in the draft will provide an additional contribution if necessary. The procedural decisions taken by the Commission were as follows: The National Defence Committee decided on its s. a At the meeting on 12 November, by consensus, the Riigikogu Board is invited to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu sitting on 21 November and to propose that the Riigikogu stop the first reading of the draft. A rapporteur for the draft committee was appointed here. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U447	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much for the waitress. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 748 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U448	Extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia, first reading. Please, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U449	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are talking about participating in a naval operation designed to prevent and prevent the activities of criminal networks involved in trafficking in human beings and the loss of refugees on their journey across the sea. The mission was created during the migration crisis and has proven its viability. By participating in this operation, Estonia is jointly and severally contributing to the European Union's military operations, which also enhances our external visibility. Next year, we plan to contribute to two staff officers, but we will request a mandate from you to send six active troops on a mission. This gives us some flexibility if it turns out that there is an additional need to send an active soldier there. 26 Member States of the European Union participate in the operation. As of today, Denmark is not participating in the European Union's common security and defence policy because of its opt-out. Nor does Slovakia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U450	Thank you very much to the Minister. Krista Arul has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U451	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you mentioned in your review that a mandate is now being requested to send six active troops on a mission. Do the allies see the need for them, or does Estonia itself want to increase its contribution to this operation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U452	Thank you. We do not have a particular desire to increase our contribution, but we often apply for some additional mandates. This gives us flexibility in case, for example, the operation leaders turn to us and ask us to send an expert. If we have that expert and we have the finances, we'll of course try to meet you. Let's just say it would take too long to process this extra candidate, and that's why we've gone this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U453	Thank you very much to the Minister. No more questions right now. Member of the National Defence Commission Ain Lutsepp will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U454	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft will allow up to six active members of the Estonian Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the military mission of EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia next year. The name Sophia was added to the mission after the German cruiser on the mission rescued 454 boat refugees, one of whom gave birth to a daughter on 24 August 2015, who in turn was named after the German cruiser. The aim of this European Union's largest military mission, to which 26 countries of the European Union contribute, is to prevent trafficking in human beings in the central Mediterranean, between Italy and Malta's territorial sea and Libya. Estonia has been participating in this military mission since August 2015. The Estonian Defence Forces have planned to contribute with two staff officers in 2019. Estonia has made a financial contribution to the mission in the past, namely the training of the Libyan Coast Guard. By participating in the mission, Estonia shall fulfil its allied responsibilities arising from its membership of the European Union. The mission has also received legitimate support under UNSCR 2240 of 9 October 2015. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft with the Minister of Defence Jüri Luige and other representatives of the Ministry's administration, including at its meeting on 12 November. The representatives of the Defence Forces who took part in this meeting gave an overview of developments in the mission area and preparations for the continuation of the mission under discussion. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu for the first reading. The rapporteur for the draft was appointed here. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu the deadline for submitting amendments, including 3 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U455	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. I will open negotiations to the political groups if that is what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 745 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U456	Extending the term for the use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria is the first reading of draft 739. Please, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U457	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are talking about a peacekeeping mission, namely an observation mission called UNTSO (United Nations Truce Supervision Organization), to which Estonia contributes up to six members of the Defence Forces as before. UNTSO is, in this sense, a unique organisation to be able to patrol Egypt, Israel, Lebanon and Syria on both sides of the border. In fact, there are very few instruments that allow the international community to monitor what is happening there and to support the guarantee of peace. The observers of the Estonian Defence Forces have been active in Lebanon, at the well-known Golan Upland in Israel and also in Syria. Participating in this mission will naturally increase Estonia's visibility in the UN and hopefully help us to achieve or at least support the UN Security Council's non-permanent membership. That's what I'm done with right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U458	Any questions for the Minister? There aren't any. Thank you very much. Johannes Kert, Member of the National Defence Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U459	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. For the 739 bill, I have the following to report. On the basis of the draft, until the end of the following year, the deadline for the use of six members of the Defence Forces will be extended by UNTSO for Peace Mission led by the United Nations. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik gave a fairly detailed overview of UNTSO, and I will not repeat it. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading, including at its meeting on 12 November, where the draft and related matters were presented by Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and the representatives of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence who accompanied him. The National Defence Committee also received an overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of the preparations of the Estonian Defence Forces for the continuation of the UNTSO's mission as set out in the draft decision. At its meeting on 12 November, the National Defence Committee decided unanimously to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. I was appointed a waitress for the National Defence Commission. The National Defence Committee also unanimously decided to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U460	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. The proposal of the commission of directors, as we have heard, is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 739 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U461	First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the reaction forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. Please, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U462	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is applying for a mandate for Estonia's participation in the NATO Response Force, which is capable of carrying out military operations at any point in the world. It is of course in Estonia's direct interest to participate in this unit. It is extremely important to Estonia that NATO has such a rapid reaction force. In 2019, we wish to contribute up to 52 members of the Defence Forces. The expulsion of this unit is decided unanimously by the North Atlantic Council, which means that this unit can only be used with the consent of Estonia. And we are talking about a unit whose part of Estonia is in readiness, but is located in Estonia. If the NAC, or NATO Council, has not sent it out anywhere, then these fighters are not in any kind of operation, but are in Estonia's readiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U463	Any questions for the Minister? There aren't any. Thank you very much. Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U464	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting, including on 12 November, before submitting it to the first reading. At this meeting, the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and the respective representatives of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence participated on behalf of the author of the draft. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee received an overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of the events in the international mission areas with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces and preparations for participating in the NATO response forces set out in the draft decision (NATO Response Force). Now a little bit more about the general principles of the draft that we are discussing, which you should be familiar with in previous years. Estonia's participation in the NATO response forces, or NRF, is due to our membership in the alliance. All NATO Member States contribute to the NRF, except Iceland, which does not have an army. At this point, however, I note that Iceland, with one official, is contributing to the NATO's Advanced Forward Presentation contingent in Lithuania, which in Estonian means the battle group pre-positioned by NATO in Lithuania. The NRF's response force is an important tool for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operation, if necessary. Thus, participation in the NRF is also directly related to Estonia's security. NATO response teams may be used for collective self-defence operations under the NATO Treaty as set out in Chapters 6 and 7 of the United Nations Charter. There are about 40,000 military members of the NRF. This team, in turn, includes a team of approximately 5,000 military units with air and naval components and a special unit reinforced brigade battle group called Very High Readness Joint Task Force, which is in English. The use of the NRF will be decided by the NATO Council by consensus, which means that its activation can only take place with the consent of Estonia. According to the bill, next year we will be contributing to the NRF with up to 52 members of the Defence Forces, which means special forces and associated staff officers. Now for the National Defence Committee's procedural decisions. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus, including at its meeting on 12 November, to appoint me as the committee representative and to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft under discussion. In addition, the committee decided by consensus to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U465	Thank you very much for the waitress. Any questions? I don't think so. Do the political groups want to negotiate? That's not what you want either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for submitting 738 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U466	Extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic in the performance of the international military operation Inherent Resolve, first reading of the draft 747. Please, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U467	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We propose to you in 2019 to continue to contribute to Operation Inherent Resolve, a US-led military operation of the International Coalition against ISIL. Inherent Resolve aims to engage in the direct fight against ISIL as well as supporting activities in Iraq and the wider region. Estonia will contribute to the operation from autumn 2016 with a six-member training team, which is located in the Danish contingent in the province of Anbar. The main task of this contingent is the military training of Iraqi security forces. We also have a senior officer on a multinational military strategic team in Baghdad. The team advises Iraqi ministries and security forces. It is important to note that there are enough crises in the surrounding area and Estonian Defence Forces do not participate in any military operation on Syrian territory. The so-called legal basis for this mandate is Iraq's consent and also a request to the UN for security assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U468	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no questions. Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U469	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to report a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian state during the international military operation Inherent Resolve'. On the basis of the draft, it will be decided to continue the participation of up to ten Estonian Defence Forces in an international military operation against Daesh, or ISIS (Islamic State in Iraq and Syria), led by the US in Iraq. The US-led operation Inherent Resolve was launched on 15 June 2014. Estonia will participate in this mission as of August 2016 on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu. As part of the Danish contingent in the Al-Anbar province of Iraq, a six-member training team was launched with the primary task of military training of Iraqi security forces. In addition, as of September 2016, one of the Estonian senior officers in Baghdad will serve in a multinational military-strategic team led by the USA, which advises Iraqi ministries and security forces. The main and supporting elements and staff of this operation are actually located in Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Qatar, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. Estonian Defence Forces do not participate in the activities of Operation Inherent Resolve, which take place on the territory of Syria. Given the priority of the fight against ISIS, Estonia is ready to contribute, if necessary and possible, to the operation with more military personnel than at present. However, the number of additional active troops to be contributed shall not exceed the limit set out in the draft, i.e. 10 members of the Defence Forces. The ISIS, a terrorist organisation mainly operating in Syria and Iraq, represents a serious threat to global security, including a real threat to European internal security and also to Estonia. The activities of this terrorist organisation also have a direct impact on the activities and number of people in need of international protection in the Middle East region, and thus on the refugee crisis in Europe. In order to operate the ISIS Coalition in Iraq, the agreement of the government of the country, based on two documents, is a letter from the Permanent Representative of Iraq to the United Nations Secretary-General and a letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iraq to the President of the United Nations Security Council dated 25 June 2014. They call on countries to participate in the fight against ISIS. The members of the National Defence Committee were presented at the meeting on 12 November by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and representatives of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. The National Defence Commission also received from representatives of the General Staff of the Defence Forces an overview of the Defence Forces units in the mission areas and of the preparations for continuing to participate in Operation Inherent Resolve. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 12 November 2018, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of the sitting of the Riigikogu on 21 November and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The draft was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December 2018. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U470	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. I shall open negotiations, if I so wish, for the representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 747 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U471	The decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international duties of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan' is the first reading of the draft 743. Please, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U472	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It's one of our two big missions. We want to continue to contribute to the NATO-led training and counselling mission in Afghanistan (Resolute Support Mission) and apply for a mandate for 46 members of the Defence Forces. We now have 44 militias in Afghanistan. Our fighters are part of an infantry group and support element in the UK unit operating in Kabul, literally in the centre of Kabul. The head of this unit (Cabul Security Force) is, as has already been mentioned, a UK General. Defence forces from many other countries, with whom we have been together on various missions in Afghanistan, such as Australians, Danes, Canadians, etc., are still represented in the same unit. Our demining team is also in Mazar-e Sharif, north, where the mission is led by Germany and our advisors are assisting Afghan colleagues. We are also represented by three staff officers. And why are we asking for a mandate for 46 members of the Defence Forces? We're also planning on betting with two military officers. The continuation of this mission after the end of the large-scale NATO mission in Afghanistan, the ISAF, is important because, despite the efforts of the Afghan security forces, the situation in Afghanistan remains unstable. We hope, of course, that through the support that NATO provides, we can prevent Afghanistan from once again becoming a pillar of international terrorist groups. It is important to stress here that this is not a battle mission. We are talking, above all, about advice, although our team in Kabul is primarily concerned with the security of advisers, which is, of course, a very important aspect of any kind of counseling. And we have sent these specific units to Afghanistan at the request of NATO, within the framework of NATO's military process, because it is these powers that have been most needed there at that point in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U473	Peter Ernits will begin the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U474	Good manager and Minister of Defence! I asked last year, too, but I'm asking again. As reported by Kabul Governor Mohammad Yaqub Haidar is a well-known businessman in Estonia who was convicted of tax crimes in absentia in 2012 and sentenced for up to four years. The 50 Estonian Defence Forces are now in this very place. Are there any contacts with the Governor of Kabul and other Estonian authorities? The person who is governor of Kabul is wanted, and the Estonian Defence Forces are in the Kabul region. I don't know how to ask that question. Arresting is a little too difficult. Has any cooperation with the Estonian authorities been discussed on his question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U475	Thank you. That has not been discussed. This is also impossible, because the NATO mission in Afghanistan has a very clear mandate, very clear tasks that are in no way related to internal security, to the resolution of criminal cases. All of this is dealt with by the Afghan authorities, the security forces. So if we have any desire to cooperate in any way, then our prosecutor's office must turn to the Afghan Public Prosecutor's Office and seek cooperation, which is probably the only way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U476	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U477	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is a little more general and concerns several missions. If you look at the draft decision and at the end of it well and correctly mentioned costs, you will find that there are two types of missions. For some, the expenditure line has been calculated with the euro, and for others, you have honestly said that it is not actually possible to calculate the expenditure so precisely and to present it in the draft decision. Would you explain precisely those where this euro cost is not based on what it depends on? And do you know at least the orders of magnitude? In this latter case, you say the magnitude. Do others know the order of magnitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U478	Thank you. We've been trying to mark the order of magnitude here. If there's any information left missing, of course we'll be happy to send it. In general, the costs of operating operations can indeed be defined as the order of magnitude, because very many aspects of the development of events on the ground, technical failures, any increase or decrease in expenditure, are not directly under our control. They could change that exact number. What is more, of course, is that we often ask you for a greater mandate, and we also consider the possibility that we may have to find the resources to send additional people on a mission. But we're still trying to bring this order of magnitude to you as precise as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U479	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U480	Good manager and waitress! Will the Governor of Kabul meet with the units during their mission in any way, or will Estonia welcome the mission? Is such a point of contact planned or real?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U481	To tell you the truth, I haven't heard the governor go on special contact with the units. Our unit in Kabul is located at the mission headquarters or main headquarters of Resolute Support and is primarily working with the highest management and most important advisors of this staff. Our team also has, figuratively speaking, a small room in the Kabul Ministry of Defence, because counselors who travel from headquarters to the Ministry of Defence are often secured. At the same time, all this transport takes place in the green zone, which means that Afghan security forces have closed down these roads. In general, it is considered to be a relatively safe zone, but Afghanistan, of course, cannot provide any specific guarantees there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U482	Thank you very much to the Minister. No more questions right now. Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U483	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion allows up to 46 active members of the Estonian Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the NATO Training and Counselling Mission Resolute Support Mission (RSM) next year. These are training, counselling and support tasks, and the forces of the States contributing to RSM will not participate in the battle, as the Minister of Defence said. In 2019 it is planned to continue its engagement with an infantry group and a support element in the United Kingdom unit in Kabul and with a demining team in the North Afghanistan region led by Germany. In addition, Estonia also contributes with three staff officers. The continuation and strengthening of the RSM, and thereby supporting Afghanistan, is essential in order to maintain the progress achieved so far since 2001. In order to ensure that Afghanistan does not become a pillar of international terrorism again, the support of the Allied forces on the ground to the Afghan security forces is essential. At the meeting on 12 November this year, the members of the committee were introduced to the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion and to the drafts of other mandates with the participation of the Defence Forces. The National Defence Commission also received an overview of the Defence Forces units in the mission areas and preparations for continuing in Afghanistan. Estonia has participated in RSM since 2015. Continuation of the mission and support for Afghan security forces will continue to be important. Due to the legal basis of the mission, which is the status agreement between NATO and Afghanistan, Estonia is fulfilling its allied responsibilities by participating in this NATO mission. At its meeting on 12 November 2018, the National Defence Committee decided to make the following proposal to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu: to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu was also invited to conclude the first reading of the draft. I was appointed rapporteur for the draft. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U484	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. Would you like to negotiate? It's not there. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for submitting 743 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U485	Extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and in the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali, first reading of draft 746. Please, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U486	Honourable Riigikogu! We are applying for a mandate for advisory missions and a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Africa. We're talking about two missions. One is the mission of the European Union (EUTM Mali). There are two of our instructors in Koulikoros who are providing military training to the Malian units. We also have two staff officers in Bamako with the task of manning a headquarters that runs EUTM Mali as a whole. This is in line with one of the priorities of the Estonian state to participate in the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy and to develop cooperation with strategic allies. The second mission is MINUSMA, which is a United Nations mission. This is where we will contribute next year with three staff officers: one at headquarters in Bamako, the other at Western Command in Timbuktu and the third at Gaos. It is, as I said, a United Nations mission. Estonia has tried to be as active as possible in UN operations. A small margin in terms of the limits of the mandate allows us to contribute further to these operations if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U487	Questions for the Minister. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U488	Good manager and waitress! So much from the background of the Malian operation that we're helping our allies there, but it's a colonial war. I ask whether the deeper point of this mission is to protect the French uranium mines in this region or whether it is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U489	Thank you. I'll say right from the start, no, it's not like that. Just in case, I would point out that, in this case, it is indeed instructors and staff officers on international missions, the UN and the European Union. I think you mean our military mission to Barkhane Mali, where we really are participating in a French-led operation, to which we will come at the next point, if I am not mistaken. But all our wishes relate to peace-building, international cooperation and stability. We don't have any ulterior motives about the former colonial times.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U490	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik! The rapporteur for the National Defence Committee is Marianne Mikko. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U491	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion concerns two missions. According to point 1 of the draft, the period for the use of up to ten Estonian Defence Forces in Mali is extended by the European Union Training Mission in Mali. In 2019 Estonia will contribute to this mission with two Defence Forces instructors whose task is to provide military training to the Malian units. Two staff officers will also contribute to the planning and consultation process for the training of the Malian units. As a country of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to help implement the Union's common security and defence policy. The Mali mission is one of the most important missions of the European Union, to which 21 EU Member States contribute. According to point 2 of the draft, the participation of up to ten Estonian Defence Forces in the UN peacekeeping mission in Mali (MINUSMA) is extended. Estonia will contribute to MINUSMA next year with three operational staff officers. If necessary, the draft at issue will allow for an increase in the number of active troops. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in the crisis area. The focus is on building the state and supporting the population, society. In addition, participation in UN missions increases Estonia's visibility in the UN and is presumably good for Estonia's efforts to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in the period from 2020 to 2021. At the meeting on 12 November, Jüri Luik, Minister of Defence and representatives of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence, presented the draft decision of the Riigikogu to the members of the committee. The National Defence Commission also received from representatives of the General Staff of the Defence Forces an overview of the Defence Forces units in the mission areas and preparations for the continuation of EUTM Mali and MINUSMA's participation in operations. At its meeting on 12 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu on 21 November and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The draft was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December 2018. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U492	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U493	Good manager and waitress! I didn't understand what the Secretary of Defense was saying. We're still talking about Mali, and EKRE doesn't think it's a very smart mission. But I'm going to ask you what the real point is. If we get up to ten armed forces, how many of them will come from other parts of Europe, how much of this help is there really gonna help us? And doesn't this aid mean ensuring stability in French colonial estates, not ensuring Estonia's security? Besides, of course, the boys get experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U494	Yes, experience is, of course, essential. But where you're trying to get to, Mr. Ernits, you're in a bit of a hurry. My colleague Madis Milling will be coming soon to talk about an interesting mission in Mali, under the auspices of the French. I am absolutely convinced that this quarter million euro will go from this 2% in the right direction. And I can say once again that, on the one hand, there is a European Union mission, i.e. planning, conducting and supporting training, and, on the other hand, the UN mission is MINUSMA, i.e. logistical support and analysis. All in all, it's up to ten people we're sending there. I think we need all this stuff. We want to be a good Member State of the European Union, just as we want to be a good Member State of the United Nations. I think that these tasks are financially feasible for us, but, of course, they are particularly useful for men in terms of experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U495	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 746 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U496	Next on our agenda is the first reading of draft 740 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Force." Jüri Luik, Minister of Defence, who is the initiator of the draft act, is a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U497	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are requesting a mandate from you to act as part of the United Kingdom Joint Expedition Force. In this case, it's a readiness unit again. The Estonian unit is also a readiness unit within this framework, i.e. a unit that is ready in Estonia until it has been sent to an operation. We're in this unit with 24 militias, including an improvised explosive fighting team, a strategic communication team, medics, an air fireman, a mine diver team and a support element. Now a little bit longer than that combined expeditionary force. It is a coalition of will, the decision-making process and activities of which are not based on consensus. What does that mean? In essence, it is a framework governed by a leading state, the United Kingdom, which sets out a major part of the composition of this unit and the military capabilities necessary for the operation of the unit. But there are also many other important and close allies in this unit, namely from the north. I am referring here to Denmark, Lithuania, Latvia, the Netherlands, Norway, Finland and Sweden. As you can see, not only are NATO members in the unit, as this is not a NATO unit directly, it is also possible to involve Sweden and Finland. It is in Estonia's interest to be part of as many high-ready entities as possible. This would enable us to assist others if necessary, but also take into account the possibility that these very high-ready units may be used to protect Estonia. The same JEF can be quite free to carry out NATO's mission. The unit is simply put at the disposal of NATO headquarters for the purpose of carrying out the mission. We consider such a framework and the UK's approach to be very positive, very suitable for us. To date, the JEF framework has been used primarily for training in a number of types of exercises, which have not been sent for surgery anywhere. I would like to remind you once again that this is your mandate to give this unit the readiness to participate in the operation if necessary. If there is a specific operation, of course, the government will make a separate decision on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U498	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U499	Good manager and Minister of Defence! I've once been to the center in Afghanistan where these improvised explosive devices are being dealt with. Why don't you open up a little bit of the current situation that's really being dealt with there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U500	If we wanted to go into the details, I have to be honest with you, I should call a specialist in this field. In this case, these people are not in Afghanistan, but they are in Estonia, as has been said, but they will, of course, be used if necessary. In general, it is attempted to detect and disarm various types of improvised explosive devices. In this case, it is not the people who do this themselves, but the instructors who are responsible for providing the necessary information and training to local forces. For example, we have an expert in this area in Operation Inherent Resolve in Iraq, for which the first reading of the draft has just been completed. So this is a training function.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U501	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U502	Good manager and waitress! I have a question that arises here every year. Military operations are more useful in the shadow of darkness. I ask why the discussions on extending missions in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia are often around the same time on the evening when the hall is empty or the ambassadors are tired, around 11 o'clock as it is now. Is it a conscious choice to try to do this quietly, or does it simply mean that the Riigikogu board is not organised?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U503	Thank you. This question is deeply relevant to the internal organisation of the Riigikogu; I cannot answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U504	There are no more questions for the waitress, and I don't even consider the unprofessional question to be procedural. The waitress of the National Defence Commission is Madis Milling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U505	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, who are left in the hall by a unit about the size of a section! The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 12 November. This meeting was attended on behalf of the author of the draft by Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and representatives of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. As the Minister of Defence explained quite thoroughly what the Joint Expeditionary Force is, I will not stop at it any longer, but I will mark again what is important. Participation in JEF is a continuation of very close and long-term bilateral cooperation between Estonia and the United Kingdom, taking into account both operations in Afghanistan and the military presence of UK units in Estonia in the NATO Battle Group. For our Defence Forces, JEF's mission and training output is important. This draft confirms Estonia's readiness to contribute to JEF's possible operation in 2019 with a repeat, possible operation with up to 24 defence forces, i.e. an anti-explosion team, a strategic communication team, a medical team, an air-fire driver, a mine diver team and a support element. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 12 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint me rapporteur and to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu including the sitting on 21 November. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop reading the draft decision and to set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 3 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U506	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? Thank you, Madis Milling! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 740 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U507	Our next item is the first reading of Bill 741 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the execution of the French military operation in Barkhane Mali' submitted by the Government of the Republic. Jüri Luik, Secretary of Defense, the initiating waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U508	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is our battle mission in Mali for Operation Barkhane, led by France. We would continue to participate in the current volume, i.e. mechanized infantry team, support element and staff officers, with a total of 48 members of the Defence Forces. The operating area of the team is Mali, and Gaos is more specifically responsible for military functions. Our unit is there, first, protecting the base, patrolling the area near the base and rapid response to possible emergency situations. Our decision to participate in the operation is based on the need to contribute to the resolution of Europe's southern challenges and the fight against threats affecting Europe and, if possible, at the source of these threats. The operation also helps to deepen the strategic relationship between Estonia and France. As we know, France is actively participating in strengthening NATO's deterrence, including coming back to Estonia next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U509	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U510	Good manager and waitress! As I understand it, now is the right place to ask, even though the country is the same. My question continues to be the same. First of all, the EKRE Group does not support this mission, and the rest do. Why don't you explain how this mission has to do with ensuring stability in French colonial estates, especially the security of uranium mines in this region, Mali?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U511	Thank you. There's no connection. I think the context has to be taken into account here. In particular, the five countries on whose territory the operation takes place are: Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Chad. For those groups and entities that literally dominate, for example, different areas of Mali, real military intervention is often needed to stabilise the situation. Mali's central authority is simply not physically capable of dealing with these problems. For example, if we look at the same Gao base as the Estonians, there are three missions: the European Union and the United Nations mission (EUTM and MINUSMA), where we have observers, and the battle mission. We can indirectly say that since our boys are protecting the immediate vicinity of this base, we are actually defending the entire international community that has gathered there at Gao Base. It is essentially a huge military airfield with various bases, warehouses, etc. So the functions are pretty clear there. All international missions try to help and support each other. Paradoxically, the highest number of victims is the United Nations mission, which logically could be best protected by the UN's blue flag and its noble mandate. In fact, the very Barkhane is the least risky, because the Defence Forces are armed to the teeth and their rights to use firepower are much more relaxed than the United Nations mission, which is also natural. This leads us to the fact that the content of the peacekeeping force has changed at all today. It's very difficult to guard peace when you don't have parties to guard peace between. This is a major challenge, especially in Africa. So armed missions play a very important role in ensuring peace and stability. Of course, this French major unit and our small unit will not bring final peace to Mali, but they will provide no support. The more stable these Sahel countries are, the more it is believed that there is less migratory pressure, both in terms of illegal migration and refugees, people are fleeing from terrorism, etc. So these missions are one of the methods used when it is said that action should be taken, not within Europe, but in the countries of origin. Mali is clearly seen as one of those countries of origin for migration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U512	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U513	Good manager and Minister of Defence! That was very interesting information. As I understand it, the lives of the boys going to Mali are most at risk. The explanatory memorandum states that this mission will help to curb the migration rush that is coming from Mali and the Sahel region. But what is the real effect of such a small contingent? 50 is not quite a small number either, but what can they actually do to prevent this migration flow? And are they even able to do anything, or is that rather a nice reason, because migration is a threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U514	Thank you. That's what this mission is all about. It is clear that compared with the number of fighters in France and our group, there is a huge difference. The main influence comes from the French, we perform a kind of support function there, just as there is with a small country. When we look at other mandates, in some places we are represented by one or two men, but we still set up the flag and try to support and show solidarity, as far as possible. I can talk about my experience of participating in Operation Barkhane. We often go to international discussions where it is stressed that the eastern part of NATO or, figuratively speaking, this eastern front must be protected and assisted. There are also French and representatives of other countries, British, etc. It is always assumed that Estonia, for its part, is based on the '360-degree security vision', according to which we are also prepared to do something in the south. And, of course, it really matters whether we're part of some kind of symbolic operation or whether we're part of a real combat operation. Despite the fact that this is indeed one group, which is in itself a large unit for Estonia, it is a significant and positive political step in Estonia. Our unit will certainly not solve Afghanistan's problems or Mali's problems in Mali. It can't be done by a much bigger ally than us, but we'll do our best.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U515	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U516	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! Have you not discussed that instead of these Estonian boys, it might be more reasonable to send the EKRE Group of the Riigikogu there? They have the ability, the knowledge, and the ability to make an elephant out of a mosquito, and it is not a question of turning that elephant back into a mosquito.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U517	Thank you. We haven't discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U518	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The waitress of the National Defence Commission is Madis Milling. Please, Madis Milling!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U519	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Military Operation Barkhane in Mali, because the Secretary of Defense made a pretty thorough review, and we got a lot of information about the questions and answers about this operation, so I'm not going to go over all that again. But once again, let me mention our involvement. Estonia will participate in this operation on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu in force since August 2018. Perhaps this is not a new draft, but an extension of the existing mandate. We participate in this mission with mechanized infantry teams, support elements and staff officers, with a total of up to 50 members of the Defence Forces. The operation area of the team shall be Mali and the function shall be military. More detailed tasks include base protection, patrolling in the immediate vicinity of the base and rapid response to emergency situations. In addition, Estonia is contributing separately to the European Union Training Mission (EUTM Mali) and the United Nations Peacekeeping Mission (MINUSMA), but all three are complementary and coordinating activities, as referred to by the Minister of Defence. The members of the Riigikogu were presented at the meeting on 12 November with the draft decision of the Riigikogu and the drafts of other mandates with the participation of the Defence Forces by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and representatives of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 12 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu on 21 November and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The draft was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the draft amendments be submitted by 5.15 p.m. on 3 December. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U520	Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Madis Milling! I'm opening negotiations. I understand that for the speech he wants... Nobody wants to perform. There is no wish for negotiations and the first reading of Bill 741 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U521	Honourable Riigikogu, the 30th item is the first reading of Bill 742 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon'. The initiator's waitress is Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik. Please, George Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U522	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is the last mandate in the long line of mandates that we have brought before you today. We are talking about participating in the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. Until recently, on the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon, we had an infantry team operating in a Finnish company. This peacekeeping unit was a Finnish-Irish battalion with a Finnish company. The Finnish company is leaving, and in connection with this, we are pulling our unit back from South Lebanon. We're not leaving UNIFIL completely, we're staying there with up to three militias. Now we are talking about a staff officer, and it is quite possible that we will increase this figure somewhat. This is a significant change in our international operations, because we are indeed bringing one unit back home and there is no plan for this unit to go out next year. As has been said, however, we are applying for a mandate for UNIFIL for three members of the Defence Forces. Estonia has been participating in UNIFIL for a considerable time. Between 1996 and 1997, we even contributed to it with a peacekeeping company, 135 members of the Defence Forces. From 2015 until autumn 2018, we were already represented there with this infantry group and support elements. Now the volume is falling even further, but our flag is still standing at UNIFIL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U523	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U524	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, would you elaborate on this part of Finland's withdrawal? It also states in this explanatory memorandum that Finland has unilaterally decided to do so. Why did this process begin, and what are these reasons? Tell me as much as you can, as far as you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U525	Thank you. There's really no special secret. The Finns are regrouping their unit, and they are likely to join the UNIFIL Rapid Response Teams, as they have informed us. The structure of these units is such that there is no place for us there anymore. In that case, we should literally find another place for ourselves. Nor is continuing with the Irish battalion an option for a number of technical reasons. So this is the easiest solution right now. You might think otherwise, but it's actually difficult to find holes or opportunities for peacekeeping. Unlike very many other military missions, the United Nations is compensating for a certain amount of expenditure on peacekeeping, which is why many countries, especially developing countries, are major peacekeepers, such as Fiji and Pakistan. All these places, all these units, they're very much desired. Since we have so many other missions, of course there is no reason for us to actively seek this opportunity now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U526	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik! The waitress of the National Defence Commission is Madis Milling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U527	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting, including on 12 November, before submitting it to the first reading. On behalf of the author of the draft, the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces took part in this meeting. Yeah, it's really a mission where we pull ourselves together. I can tell you that UNIFIL is a United Nations blue helmet mission. The Estonian Defence Forces also participated in this mission in 1996-1997, which was perhaps not our first but our second mission. So this is a historic place where Estonian Defence Forces have tried to cooperate internationally. Indeed, Finland has unilaterally decided to stop contributing to this unit. I will complement the Minister of Defence with regard to why cooperation with Finland or participation in the Finnish unit was extremely important to us. There are also two technical reasons. First of all, our Defence Forces there used Finnish armored vehicles. Our Defence Forces got experience with these armored vehicles. We have the same armored vehicles. One important detail is that in Lebanon, our defence forces used Finn handguns, or machines, to speak in rural languages, for one very simple reason: the Scouts Battalion, or our own mission units, use Israeli-origin machines Galil AR, but travelling around with Israeli-produced machines in Lebanon is not the most politically intelligent thing to do. So we had such very important cooperation points with the Finns. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus at its meeting, including in November, to appoint a rapporteur for the committee here and to propose that the Riigikogu finish the first reading of the draft. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu the deadline for submitting amendments, including 3 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-21_U528	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Madis Milling! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 742 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments on 3 December 1715. Dear Riigikogu, you see, I can say that I will see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 11.41 p.m.
