ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 30 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. Government members: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure Kadri Simson and Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. I will give the debate on each issue an opportunity to put forward a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U2	First, Martin Helme asks, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! At the end of last week, you have said that Estonia supports the adoption of the migration framework by the United Nations General Assembly, and when you say 'Estonia', I understand that you speak on behalf of the Estonian state as Prime Minister, and the government supports the adoption of the migration framework by the United Nations General Assembly, that you trust the position of the Foreign Minister in support of the migration framework. At the same time, your coalition partner, Chairman of the Fatherland, Seeder, when we addressed him on this issue, wrote explicitly that the government has not supported this migration framework, that the Fatherland blocked the decision-making process in the government, and the government has not given the Foreign Minister the power to support it. These two positions cannot be true at the same time; one of them must be wrong. I ask you, Prime Minister: which one is lying to me, either you or Ceder?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! First of all, I thank you for this question, and I thank you too. You have certainly helped to explain this topic in a balanced way in society, explaining the aspirations you have, Mr Martin Helme. I believe that we both unequivocally and resolutely condemn everything that relates to physical contact and violence. After all, the Fatherland has acted very clearly on this issue, in particular, saying that they do not support the migration framework. The government discussed the migration framework. a On 22 March, and he has based himself on the consensus principle that today's Government of the Republic of Estonia does not support refugee quotas; it has been based on the fact that we do not support mass immigration; and it has also been based on the fact that, if we talk about admitting anyone at all, it can always only be voluntary and must take place with the consent of the host country. Now for the second thing. We discussed supporting the migration framework at the meeting of the Cabinet. It is true that the government did not give a single mandate here because there were differences of opinion. Therefore, 39 members of the Riigikogu considered it appropriate to bring this discussion to the wider surface, I dare say, in the most honorable hall, here in the Riigikogu Hall. A decision was taken here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U5	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! We can certainly talk about this violence under the fourth question, but I did not get the answer from you (as has already become normal) that which is the case, whether the Estonian Government supports, as you say, or the Estonian Government does not support, as Seeder says. These two things can't be true at the same time. Someone's messing with me, and more politely, they're lying to the public and to me. It is nice that we have had a debate here in Parliament, but we have already fixed that this does not mean giving the government a mandate. The fact that in March a debate was held in which the government approved the negotiating position is not approved of the document resulting from the negotiations. That, I hope, is what everyone understands. Just because no decision has been taken in the government does not mean that someone can go on behalf of Estonia and sign or vote for something in the United Nations. You have clearly said that Estonia supports this migration framework at the UN General Assembly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U7	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U8	Who's lying to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U9	Thank you. I will also start again with recognition in answering this question, Mr Helme, at your address and also at the EKRE for trying to clarify this issue. In my opinion, when people are afraid or have not received direct answers to questions, it is very reasonable that we have a civilised debate here, in accordance with the democratic rule of law. Thank you for that. I think that recognition is always important, and I would like to congratulate you on that. I didn't just say I thought it was more broad-based. If I am not mistaken, one of the founders of the Constitution, Jüri Raidla, said that if we bring it to this Riigikogu, it does not mean a government crisis, but vice versa, it means a broader debate. The government did not decide at the meeting of the cabinet that we would support the migration framework, nor did it take the decision that we would not support it. The reason is that, as your experienced politician, you know that Estonian coalition governments today have three good political parties in the government, the Fatherland, Social Democrats and the Centre Party are based on the same principle that has been applied in the past, namely that decisions are taken in a consensual manner at government level. If there is no consensus, there is still an attempt to discuss and discuss. Even if there is no consensus then there is an opportunity to put the matter to the vote. I, too, promised it was as far as I know on Monday morning, on Monday evening you started discussing it, that if the Riigikogu sees that the government has to discuss it again, then I will take it to the government and I will also vote if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U10	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U11	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! You are holding up and speaking against yourself with your speeches and statements. The question is specific. You yourself have just said directly that the Government has not approved the accession to the UN Migration Framework. You also say that the government has not decided not to join it. However, as Prime Minister, you know very, very well that the draft statement of the Riigikogu is not a mandate. It is not binding on the government, it is of an indicative nature. You haven't made a decision in the government. This decision must be consensual, as you have just said, but at the same time you have repeatedly said to the public that Estonia will join this migration framework, or the migration pact. Please tell me at what point you're lying and at what point you're telling the truth. Where does a diplomat take the right to go to the UN General Assembly and show Estonia's support for this framework and Estonia's wish to join this framework? Will you finally be able to give a concrete answer on where this mandate comes from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U12	Thank you, Mr. Jaak Madison. I thank you for this very substantive and benevolent question. It is also a recognition to you that you are trying to explain this issue more and more in society. That's good. As we have said, and I think that the Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Estonia said this very clearly, that the migration framework is not legally binding. It is true that the government has relied on its decision of 22 March. I stress again, because since you are asking ten times too, I think it will be, not ten, but 11 times. The government's position today is that we do not support refugee quotas, we do not support mass immigration. When we talk about the migration framework, its basic position has been that illegal migration must be resisted. What else has happened at government level, at executive level? After 22 March, of course, negotiations have taken place, where our diplomats have participated, in order to find precisely those positions within the migration framework that are also important for Estonia. I, having also been a member of the honourable Riigikogu in some configurations, will not reduce or reduce the role of the Riigikogu at all. If you know better about the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act and if this statement is recommended, then it should be recommended, but I think that, in the case of a good partnership between executive and legislative power, it is still a guide or guidance on how to proceed. I take the decision of the Riigikogu very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U13	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U14	Next, Krista Aru asks, says Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! R &amp; D funding is not one of the priorities of this government coalition. This can be said by looking at the next year's state budget for reading and deciding today. At the same time, in the public eye, in the press, a large number of researchers and individual scientists have been making very worrying calls. On the initiative of the President, a major agreement is being drawn up, signed by the Council of Rectors, public universities and also representatives of political parties. Has the Ministry of Finance calculated how many millions are missing to reach the objective of financing R &amp; D with 1% of GDP?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U16	Thank you for your question. R &amp; D investments are certainly a priority for today's government, and I very much hope that they will also be a priority for the next governments. The 2019 budget provides €220 million for R &amp; D, with an increase of €20 million. It is very important that basic funding has increased. While it was around 19% in 2015, it has now risen to almost 50% compared to competitive investment. It is in itself very welcome that there will be a cross-party social agreement so that R &amp; D investment can be 1% of GDP. The private sector's contribution must certainly be added. Today, I rather see the problem that these investments, the expenditure on research development, do not go hand in hand with entrepreneurship, i.e. they do not contribute enough to GDP growth. This is a concern that needs to be borne in mind in the future, so that expenditure on R &amp; D can also contribute to our economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U17	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. I'll go on from here. Indeed, next year, EUR 18.9 million will be added to R &amp; D financing, of which 5.6 million will be purely structural support money. So we will not even get 15 million public money for this. A new R &amp; D funding period is also under preparation in the European Union. Substantial changes have been made. Has the Estonian Ministry of Finance also looked at research and development with the view that if subsidies from the European Union decrease, how much is the additional need, how much should the state include in R &amp; D investments? Are these calculations generally available for the following years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U19	Thank you for your question. Indeed, there is now a serious debate on funding for the next budget period in the corridors of the European Union, and there is certainly Estonia's priority that the budget for research and innovation should increase rather than decrease. I also know that there are interested people who would like to cut this envelope, who think that countries could deal with it themselves, and the European Union's resources could rather go to agriculture, for example, or anywhere. But I guess ultimately it doesn't make any difference. If we have agreed that 1% of GDP could be a contribution to R &amp; D, I would avoid making any difference as to whether these funds come from our domestic taxes or from external funds. Money is money. We need to use everything as efficiently and sensibly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U20	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U21	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Unfortunately, you did not answer Krista Aru's first question about how many hundred or several dozen million euros are missing to achieve 1% of GDP to finance R &amp; D. I'll ask you another question. As a criticism, you pointed out that these investments have not contributed to the rise in GDP. What are the clear recommendations of the government to put your vision into practice? I think it would also be likely that this 1% will be achieved, because I understand that since these conditions are not being met, you are not ready to talk about this 1%.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U22	Thank you. If today R &amp; D funding is about 0.81% of GDP, the order of magnitude that needs to be added is about 40 million. When we talk about this concern that investment in R &amp; D should contribute even more to our economic growth, we can say that we have specifically discussed these issues in the Economic Development Council, which also includes university leaders and researchers, as well as with businesses, in order to find a common part of how to do it best and more effectively. Here's the key word for cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U24	The Minister of Finance will now answer the question asked by Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U25	Thank you. Mr. Tõniste! The mission of the Minister of Finance is to establish rules for the rational and fair use of state money. During your term of office, we have reached a situation where the Riigikogu and the government are accused directly of theft, of distributing money in a mafia. Your party is a very prominent party here. Please tell me what you have done to ensure that equality of treatment, transparency, competition and honesty apply to the distribution of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U26	Thank you for your question. This is not a new issue, it has been up for decades and it has been up during different governments. We know we're talking about roofing money here. Is it good practice or not, I don't know. As your former colleague, I know that it has been used here all along, there has been a general expectation and an understanding that the payment of roofing money is normal. I don't think that makes any sense. It is particularly unreasonable to call it normal that members of the Riigikogu, who have wanted to stand out, have purchased posts for taxpayers, all of us, all of us, people working for the tax money, for example, as President of the Sub-Union. If we say it's normal, these are normal rules that still apply, I say it's not normal. Well, what's normal is that it's actually transparent. The normal thing is that if we report these expenditures in the budget, they will be clearly stated and not hidden anywhere. The discussion of the Riigikogu's adding wishes between second and third reading is a separate question. There are pros and cons, I agree. In the same way, all members of the Riigikogu want to solve the problems that, in their opinion, the officials of the ministries have not discovered, but perhaps this is not the most appropriate step from the perspective of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U27	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U28	Thank you. But let's call it stealing. Indeed, it has been stolen a long time ago and also while you were in the Riigikogu. You should know that this theft was carefully rejected. Sven Sester didn't get half a million to his bridge club anymore because at least some practices were introduced if it didn't make it go away at all. But you were talking about transparency. For me, this is very transparent: Tarmo Kruusimäe Football Hospital receives 5000; your Saaremaa district manager receives 50000; a member of the management board of the Jõgeva district receives 7000; Mihkel Kübar, a member of the Fatherland, receives 5000 euros for nothing, for nothing, outside the queue, outside the competitions, outside the rules. It's nice that you said it wasn't normal. But give me a little more specific assessment. What have you done against this practice? I can tell you I've done something. What have you done?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U30	Thank you. What someone understands about theft is a question of its own. Then I really want to ask you why this theft has been happening here for decades and why, as Minister of Finance, a good colleague, you have done nothing about it. If you say I've done something, but they kept stealing, I don't think that's a reason. Consequently, the work is badly done. However, it has indeed been done that, if, in the past, those who were the presidents of the sub-unions and gave taxpayers money to secure their position in these sports federations, now, in large part, this crap has been closed. This pot was given to the Estonian Olympic Committee and now it is distributed on the basis of certain principles, not according to who is leading some kind of sub-union and how it can bring more taxpayers' money there. I presented to the Riigikogu a budget where everything is transparently reflected, both expenditure and revenue. What the Riigikogu will do in the course of proceedings, it will remain on the Riigikogu's conscience.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U31	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U32	Thank you. Part of this government activity is a description of the work of previous governments. You've been in the government for several years, and you could have made a very clear decision. What a good colleague has asked in this Chamber is, in fact, that this opaque distribution of money clearly shows that we cannot fight corruption. This is a problem when ministers allocate money directly to their party associates and when there is a provision of money in the Riigikogu for their associated associations. It gives absolutely no positive signal to the public, and it has a very strong impact on reputation. At least, unlike the Prime Minister, you have admitted that this is a problem, and this is already a step forward. But what makes me extremely sad is that the rule of the Estonian state has been transformed into change, where before the elections, the ambassadors start running around with wallets of different sizes. If you look at the so-called regional policy, too, the distribution of money, the so-called 'roof money', which has exceeded the previous scale several times, is actually uneven also in terms of regional policy. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U33	Thank you. This is where I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu why it is that this opportunity has been used all the time, but when the opposition is accidentally left, what was previously self-evident is suddenly no longer suitable. I think it is very right to occasionally look in the mirror and ask yourself that question, and not only when they sit in the opposition. It's a problem, it's a problem. But I'm saying there's some mitigating circumstances. Having been in the Riigikogu myself, I know that there are many painful concerns at local level, which unfortunately cannot be handed over to the local administration to remove them. If this is a very important subject in some regions and a member of the Riigikogu who is elected from this community can solve this painful problem and it is not corruption or theft, then I think there are such mitigating circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U34	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U35	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We have now seen in two demonstrations how left-wing liberals, left-wing extremists in Estonia have taken over the tactics of the left-wing extremists, particularly Antifa, and have come to organise provocations to peaceful demonstrations. The last one was on the weekend in Liberty Square, where the stroller rammed the demonstrators, put the child's life in jeopardy, and yelled at the provocations of the demonstrators: 'Fascists! Fascists! ' I would like to hear from you the same clear condemnation of the provocative tactics of these left-wing extremists that we heard in the Indrek Tarand case, when the President took the floor...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U37	Question, please! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U38	... as well as the President of the Riigikogu. The question is, I want to hear a clear condemnation. This question has already been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U39	Thank you, Mr Helme, for this very balanced question and a peaceful presentation. Thank you. Of course, the fact that there are such demonstrations in a democratic society in Estonia is part of democracy, that is understandable. But, of course, any provocation that might tip, say, with physical violence cannot be accepted anywhere. It doesn't matter whether it happens here in front of the honorable Castle of Toompea and the Riigikogu, or whether it happens in the Liberty Square. I would also like, today and again in this Question Time, to unequivocally condemn all forms of violent behaviour. What has taken place in the last few weeks in terms of violence naturally saddens me. In political demonstrations, I say the word with force: word with force, even if the participants or organisers do not like that word. On this case, which you are talking about, Mr Helme, I think I read on an online portal that one of the parties has said: 'I became emotional and expressed my opinion. I also used the vocabulary I regret today. However, I can assure you that these were the words that I, as a European citizen, expressed in the sense of my personal emotions, which had nothing to do with any organisation. '
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U40	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U41	Thank you. Well, here's a nuance. It was not just one alien living in Estonia who came to provoke a peaceful event in which the state, not the Odin warriors, must take care of order. The country must have shot across the corner again. The 200 Estonians, the new party, the rest of its members, were also involved, and the child was used as a human shield. Nothing so disgusting has yet been in Estonian politics; there has not been such a vague use of children and women as a human shield in politics. You have said that Estonia 200 will bring new winds and you are ready to cooperate with them. At the same time, you have ruled out cooperation with us. Are you going to review your position now? Do you think in this case, too, the police should investigate the provocation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U42	Thank you for this question. I will respond to you completely sincerely that when we talk about your party, the EKRE, I am, of course, ready to cooperate with the voters of the EKRE, to listen to the voters of the EKRE, and also to contribute to resolving their concerns. As Prime Minister, I cannot take the matter so that if one woman or man supports one party, another party or third party, the Prime Minister of today will not deal with his concern or take it seriously. So the voters of EKRE can also be sure of my pro-activity if they have concerns about the advancement of life in Estonia, health care, public transport, etc. You are talking about the conflict between the participants in the demonstration and the man who moved in the crowd with the baby cart, which took place in Vabaduse Square on 9 December in Tallinn. A statement was received by the police on 10 December. On its surface, the PBGB started a misdemeanour procedure on the basis of a breach of public policy clause. During the procedure, the PBGB shall interrogate witnesses and parties in order to identify the causes of the conflict. The application was submitted by the organiser of the demonstration NGO Tark and All Estonia. What does law of order say? He says that a public meeting is about people being together in a public place with the common aim of shaping or expressing their minds. A public meeting is understood as an open-air meeting, a meeting, a picetti, etc. The organiser of the public meeting shall be responsible for the peaceful conduct of the meeting. The law, of course, also gives certain rights and obligations, but I agree that public order is guaranteed by the police and no one else.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U43	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U44	Thank you. I would still come back to the question that remained unanswered: your attitude towards Estonia 200 as a party. You have said that they bring freshness and innovation to Estonia and that they have a characteristic of positivity and a value for society. In your last council you said that you understand the Estonian 200 voters, but unfortunately Estonia 200 alone cannot prevent the government of the EKRE and Reform Party. I didn't know we had a government coming soon, but okay, that's that. I understand from this hint that you and Estonia 200 would like to help prevent this EKRE and Reform Party government. The 200 members of Estonia, all three people, Florian Hartle and Teele Holmberg, whose child this human shield and ramming was carried out, and Kadri Naspüson-Acuna, participated in the planned systematic provocation, where the child's health was put at risk. This is a new low level in Estonian social debate and culture. I would also like to hear the condemnation of this party, and I would like to hear that you are not willing to cooperate with the party using such measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U45	Thank you for this question, Mr Helme. First of all, no one's life or health must be in danger on the street. Of course, we can say that any dangerous situation of a child in any room is perhaps still subject to special attention. I completely agree with your concern. Speaking of Estonia 200, I would like to say, speaking of the EKRE, that if people have the opportunity to vote for different parties, it is welcome in the Estonian democratic society, in the rule of law. Really, the voter can look at this prism more widely. You're upsetting me that I named a possible government alliance or coalition of the EKRE and Reform Party at the council where I take it. I read, I think it was yesterday when your party chairman, Mr. Mart Helme, plucked my finger that they must have agreed with Kristen Michal that there was nothing more to ask the Prime Minister, that he had to turn off Question Time. I am very pleased that the EKRE has not gone into this and the sensible debate that we have in order to move Estonia's life forward peacefully, rather than building bridges rather than strong walls, this briefing continues. Always, I'd say, having a conversation and keeping contact is a value to yourself. Mr Martin Helme, I thank you very much for being able to discuss very serious issues here too, which really concern matters of order and security in Tallinn and Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U46	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U47	Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, asks Külliki Kübarsepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U48	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Members of the Riigikogu receive magazines from time to time. The last issue of EhitusEST magazine, November, discusses shortcomings in the building register in relation to the application for authorisation. I take the subject a little bit more broadly, because I personally had to do notarial transactions, and it turned out that local authorities were filling the building register with incorrect information without the owner's permission. For example, there is a hiking trail that goes around the entire lake, registered on one property as a whole. The notary responds that there is really no trust in the entries in the building register or in the land register, but there is no other basis on which to formalise contracts. Is the state aware of this problem that their registers do not correspond to reality? What is being done to ensure that supervision functions and can be said that all relations between the person and the state are competent?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U50	Thank you, Honourable Küllik Hatter! I would like to thank you for raising issues in the field of construction over and over again in Question Time. The last time I was in briefing, we talked about construction. As then, I have to say today that it would actually be more appropriate to put this question to my colleague, the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, because, since 24 November 2016, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has shared areas between ministers and the field of construction, as well as housing, tourism, informatics, telecommunications, the development of post-communications or state information systems is the responsibility of the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology. But since we have such good cooperation in the ministry, I can really assure you that there is work going on with the building register. This register shall include information on buildings, buildings and structures and related procedures. The land register, which you asked about, is probably a land register, which is a separate database, is managed by the State Information System Authority, which is also in the area of responsibility of my colleague. But the building register is a two-to-one information system. Firstly, it is a database on buildings and procedures and, secondly, it is a procedural environment through which local authorities process documents relating to buildings, such as building permits and permits. We are working hard to improve data so that the building register can be used for the next register-based census, for example in 2021. But in the next 14 months, the whole general procedural environment will also be modernised. This work is carried out in the area of responsibility of my colleague.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U51	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U52	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I still assume that the area of economy and communication is manageable on the two ministers as a whole. Hence the Free Party's proposals as to whether there must be several ministers in one ministry, but that is why. You did not answer the question of how cooperation and supervision of local authorities will take place. The same articles that I referred to at the beginning said that the time limits could not be respected when granting authorisation. The problem is that whether the document is properly drafted is not essentially approached but only formally. Secondly, I still have this personal concern that if the local authority knowingly carries false information in the register, sanctions should follow. How is the Ministry still monitoring the work of local governments? Have you developed a certain monitoring mechanism to ensure that entries are correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U53	Thank you for your question. In 2016, the procedures of the building register went digital, i.e. the whole process changed. The aim was to make the process more efficient, to remove the need to copy or transfer the drawings to a separate rural municipality government, to make the operations effective. Today it should be noted that indeed, these development processes were not complete and the building register needs further development. As I assured you, it's workable. The clearer the processes, the easier it will be to ensure that the register data is consistent with the local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U54	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for answering our question, although you said at the beginning that this is the administrative and responsibility of another minister. However, the building register and the land register are the same for Estonia. I'll be more specific. Perhaps you can ask us to respond in writing to what changes are being made to the building register, what is being clarified there and when can these clarifications be expected? At present, the application for authorisation has been transferred from the owner to the builder and then vice versa, but very many processes have slowed down. This register just doesn't work. When and what can be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U56	Thank you very much for your constructive proposal. Indeed, as I have said in the past, the Ministry of the Economy takes the construction sector very seriously. While in the past the construction sector was covered equally with other topics, such as energy policy, but without its specific leader, from last year we also have a Deputy Secretary-General in the field of construction in the Ministry, who, indeed, working full-time with his team, is working to make sure that this register is improved and that the errors that have arisen are resolved. So you get a written answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U57	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U58	Asks Aivar Sõerd, answers Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The reform of the current government's tax-free minimum has been in place for almost a year and there are some conclusions that can be drawn. There has been some confusion and it seems that working pensioners have been some of the biggest losers of this reform. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is also sitting here and can confirm that he has spoken, as if the reform of the tax-free minimum would benefit 86% of all Estonian people. I asked the Treasury to see the impact analysis. The Ministry told me they're still being prepared, and you'll get them when they're done. Now it's been a year, and it should be possible to ask how these effects have occurred. I am asking you whether you will confirm that next year, 2019, 86% of all people will benefit from this tax reform if the new system is compared to the old one.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U60	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U61	Thank you for your question. It is true that tax-free income reform was a major step towards reducing labour taxes. Especially in this sector, where this was perhaps the most important step that had to be taken, perhaps among those with low and medium pay. Yes, he caused a lot of confusion, but to a large extent this confusion arose because our people's financial literacy was very poor. The insurmountable problem for many was to count how much they received during the year, and to predict what their income could be next year. I'm glad that a lot of people had to do it now. I think it's a positive thing if a person still finds out from time to time what the income he gets over the year is and what income he plans for next year. It's nice if he can plan his own expenses. There was something positive in my opinion. When we talk about the forecasts that have been made during the procedure for this draft, there was really a forecast that around 64% of those who ultimately pay less tax, about 22% of those who have neutral results, and about 14% of those who lose, and it does not always have to be a large sum, it may also be a few euros. Perhaps a total of about 86% were those for whom this meant victory or neutral outcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U62	Thank you. They're asking for more. The question must be asked in one minute, the answer in two minutes. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U63	Thank you. I understand you also claim that the tax reform will win 86% of all people next year. Already the summary of the tax returns refutes this argument. But I'm going to ask you again when this impact analysis will be completed. The Ministry said it was supposed to appear as part of the autumn economic forecast. Of course, I thought it was taken out of there because it would contradict that claim. But when can this impact analysis be seen? I really want to know when this impact analysis will be completed, where we can read that 86% of all people will benefit from tax reform. It's been a year, I'm asking you about next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U64	Thank you. I think you know the answer very well. You get the right answer when people have filed tax returns and made the corresponding calculations. Then we'll know exactly what the real result is. That 86% was a prognosis. I also wonder what the real result is. Meanwhile, in September, the Tax and Customs Board carried out a small analysis of the preliminary results. It revealed such surprising information that the people of Estonia behave very conservatively. They will consciously collect this victory into the next year to get it out at the same time and either buy something useful or make a trip. The fear that people would only think about how to straighten out all the money immediately was not justified. But knowingly, this step may also have been made because if people know that they will receive either additional dividend income or they will have an asset sale, a trade change and an increase in wages, they have not taken advantage of this opportunity either. Again, we will receive a final reply once the tax returns have been submitted and the relevant analysis has been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U65	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I certainly do not agree with you that all Estonian citizens should be head accountants. What's the point of an e-state image if we have to work so hard ourselves and computers can't work for us? It seems to me that all this tax reform is a major provocation. Otherwise, there would not be so much debate about it, nor would there be so much confusion. In this sense, it is truly sad that members of the government have put themselves in a better position than working pensioners. If the Honorable Minister hopes that the majority of Estonian employers will be able to say at the beginning of the year how much he will pay the Christmas prize or how much he will be able to pay during the year, which in many cases depends on the outcome, how the company is doing, then you will set an unreasonable goal for people who need to appreciate it and know it in advance. Are you really satisfied with this tax reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U67	Thank you. I am pleased with this idea and with the main thrust. People will have more than EUR 160 million, which means those with lower wages will get the money right away, we will not have to deliver it to them the other way through an expensive social system, there will be savings. This is a positive example of financial literacy. Unfortunately, today there is a major problem that, since everything is made so automatic, people are not familiar with it and are not really interested in how much their income is. When a large part behaves conservatively, some part behaves irresponsiblely. It is not news that it will certainly be useful if people are more aware of their income and expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U68	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U69	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers the question posed by Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U70	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Yesterday, there was a long talk about European and Estonian foreign policy based on value. Today, we know that in Spain, several former members of the government and parliament sit among those in the picture, Mr Forcadell, the former Speaker of the Parliament, in a prison for preliminary investigation, because they promised to hold debates in their Parliament on a referendum on the right to self-determination. How do you assess this situation? Why has the Estonian Government not said a word or taken any steps towards the disappearance of political prisoners from the territory of Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U71	Thank you very much, good questioner. You have raised the subject of Catalonia several times in this House. Let me explain a little background to those who are not so familiar with the subject. Last week, the Spanish prosecutor's office and the state's barrister's office filed charges against the leaders of the Catalonia independence process, nine of whom have been in custody during the criminal investigation. There are no fugitives from Spain, including the ex-president. But now I come to the other part of your question, what is Estonia's position? Estonia certainly supports the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Spain. I sincerely hope that domestic problems can be resolved, that the government is guided by the rule of law and democracy, including respect for human rights and respect for the principle of separation of powers. The trial must certainly be fair, but it must also seem fair. I believe that in the case of Catalonia, but also in the case of general conflicts, the door should always be open to dialogue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U72	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U73	Thank you. It's nice of you to talk about the principles of the rule of law and human rights. Carme Forcadell, former Speaker of the Catalonia Parliament, has been sitting in criminal detention since 23 March, but he has only been prosecuted now. According to this accusation, he may be facing a 17-year prison sentence, which is abnormal. I understand that you must be politically correct, but I am not asking about the integrity of Spain. I ask your opinion whether it is normal that there are political prisoners on the territory of the European Union and that the spies in some regional Parliaments have been under pre-trial investigation for almost nine months.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U74	Thank you. Of course, I fully understand the complexity of the issue, but I am sticking to my words here, with the fact that this issue must be resolved by the Spanish Government, it must resolve it, really on the basis of the rule of law and the principles of democracy. I did not just say that, of course, by respecting human rights and respecting the principle of separation of powers. In my opinion, if there are such detentions in any country, then, even during the proceedings, these procedures must still be carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U75	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! It cannot be accepted that the problems of political prisoners can be domestic problems, these are fundamental human rights problems. But, of course, the European Union is a narrow link. We see this problem much more broadly when we look at the countries of the Council of Europe, including Russia, Turkey and Azerbaijan. Please tell me whether, during your Prime Minister's career in any forum, be it the European Council or any forum related to the Council of Europe, the problem of political prisoners in Europe has been seriously addressed and, if so, with what results.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U77	Thank you. Since you are asking such a specific question, you want to know exactly the forums, dates and formats, I would certainly ask both the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to put together this answer for you in cooperation. I don't know if this period is the last two years or four years, but I'm sure we'll send you that review in the next few days.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U78	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U79	Now, respecting the rights of the islanders, Enn Meri can ask a question from Minister Kadri Samson. Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Recently, there has been much talk in the press about fixed connections with the islands. If you go ahead with this, do you see any opportunities here to, for example, raise private capital? What steps have you taken so far? How specifically can we proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U81	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the government has discussed in the Cabinet the possibility of building a bridge between Muhu Island and mainland Estonia. On the basis of this task, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has also carried out an analysis of what this bridge and the financing of the construction of this bridge could be. Different versions have been considered. It is true that, in the present situation, it would be more advantageous for the taxpayers of Estonia in the long term if the state itself built a bridge with the support of loan money, and less advantageous and more costly for our taxpayers in the future would be if this were done within the framework of the PPP project. It is clear, however, that this bridge, the fixed link, would give the islanders the opportunity, in the future, not to depend on the ferry schedule, but to choose the time of their arrival on the mainland exactly as necessary. So we're positive about it. We know what the cost is. Of course, such a project must also have done proactive work in advance with the community and in the form of environmental research. But the preliminary work on making decisions in the spring of next year when planning the country's budget strategy is done by the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U82	Honourable Riigikogu! Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Kadri Simson! Thank you, Toomas Tõniste! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U83	Dear Riigikogu, we will start the plenary session on Wednesday. Is there a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? No, it's not. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu are currently present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U84	The first item on our agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since draft 696 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, the verification of presence, please! There are 88 members of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on the Election of the European Parliament, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 696. Please take a stand and vote. There were 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the law on the election of the European Parliament initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U85	Third reading of Bill 679 of the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Hanno Pevkur, please, on behalf of the Reform Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U86	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We actually have the Personal Data Protection Act on the second round. The reason why this bill has come to the second round is probably just one thing: how to regulate the protection of people in relations with the public media. We held quite a few debates in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Ultimately, the solution proposed by the government was retained: it is enough to confirm to the press that private data from one person or another can be disclosed if there is a public interest in it. Of course, the public interest is an undefined legal term and it must be furnished by every journalist himself every time. But I very much hope that, even with my little attention today, it will remind journalists that the disclosure of human data, whatever the disclosure of data, means that the human sphere of private life will be invaded. In this case, it must always be considered whether the public interest in the disclosure of one or the other data outweighs a person's right to privacy. There were, of course, many ways to put this wording into law. But if there are any problems, the court will ultimately have to decide. I therefore think that we can continue to live with the fact that 'public interest' is the definition that remains in the text. But there are also a lot of other issues in this law that the Commission argued about, be they the issues raised by journalists or the issues sent to us by other interest groups. The fact is, the government was late by this law. We are in a situation where this European Union General Data Protection Regulation has been in force for over six months. Amazingly, the Estonian state has not collapsed, the Estonian state has worked and the personal data has also been protected. But in order for them to be better protected, we need this law. Despite the fact that I cannot accept all the points in this law, I think that the general objective of this law is, however, correct. We have a greater concern with the next item on the agenda, with the draft law on the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act, but more precisely when we get to it. In the meantime, it remains to be hoped that, in the case of this main dispute mother, the public interest versus privacy, journalists will be driven by common sense and we will not see in the press a breach of privacy that could lead to people going to court to defend their rights. But, of course, if it is necessary, it must be done. So draft 679 is expected to be eligible for adoption, despite the fact that there are some shortcomings. But what I really want to say to the government is that this whole process was late, both with the involvement of the parties and stakeholders and with what was finally written in the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U87	On behalf of the Jüri Adams Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U88	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the case of this law, it is appropriate to talk more generally about what is Estonian law and what is European Union law and how we will proceed. At the beginning of the 2000s, we could say that Estonia had completed new Estonian laws during the transitional period and almost nothing had survived from Soviet standards. Our national development could have gone on calmly, but then Estonia entered the European Union. We all know what good it has done to join the European Union and to become a member of it, but the truth is that, like all other things, there are not only good and positive aspects of joining the European Union, but also bad aspects and threats to the future. One of the practical things in the compositions of the Riigikogu at the time was the harmonisation of so-called legislation. It was done quickly, laws which were translated relatively automatically, were adopted over several thousand pages. These texts did not relate to Estonia's earlier legal traditions and still do not form a whole system until now, more than ten years later. So in Estonia, we also have laws divided into parts that are conceptually and methodically outgoing. One part is what we could call our own laws, and the others have come with the so-called 'European Union' laws. Now let's look at the law that we have before us today. This is not the worst copy, among others. This is not the type of law that has been translated into a rubber stamp. Here is the option that certain common principles have been agreed in the European Union, which should be incorporated into the laws of the Member States. The text that is being presented to us is the so-called individualised text. It is not the same as the texts in other European Union countries. As such, I believe that this is a certain victory for the work of the current European Union. Things haven't gone so bad...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U89	I apologize to George Adams! Sven Sester, you have such a powerful voice that even if you whisper, it's for the waitress to hear. Let's honor George Adams! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U90	Thank you, Mr President. I am not disturbed by Sven Sester's loud voice or his other activities in the Riigikogu. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm certainly not talking here because I'm hoping to make Sven Sester understand something about things he hasn't realized so far. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I am speaking mostly to those who want to listen, and certainly also to the verbatim. You see, the main problem with these laws is that they carry one basic ideology, namely the method of creating a common European state, be it a federal state, a unitary state or any other option. For the time being, we have experience... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U91	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U92	... that imposing the creation of a common European state or the corresponding ideology has had bad consequences. The consequence of mismanagement by the European Union in this respect is that one of the largest Member States of the European Union, namely the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, withdraws from the Union. One of the things that we should at least understand is that if these bad tendencies, the tendency to bring an overstretched united state to life in the European Union, then probably there will be others. All the more so as other things come along in democratic politics. I can only say, in conclusion, here at the moment, that I am saying that, in essence and terminological terms, we are unfortunately not getting any better by adopting this law in this area. Those errors that once entered the law in 1995 or 1996, from bad concepts and even worse terminology, will be preserved. Time will show what results are. But that's my call. In the future, let us, please, try to avoid literal translations when harmonising European Union directives. Secondly, only the small part that is really necessary for Estonia should be transferred to its own laws and the playful part of the harmonisation laws should be deleted. Otherwise, we produce texts that do not relate in any way to the situation of Estonian society and Estonian economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U93	Sven Sester has the right to object. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U94	Thank you, Mr President. I listened very carefully to Jüri Adams' so-called story, which he tried to tell in eight minutes (with three extra minutes). He pointed out the term 'ideology' several times. I did not understand exactly what ideology Jüri Adams meant. I'll sum it up in his own words: I don't know what to say here. So Jüri Adams quoted himself. I think that was the most important thing in his eight-minute story, that was a summary of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U95	I'm closing the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu, the draft law on the protection of personal data initiated by the Government of the Republic on 679, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft law on the protection of personal data initiated by the Government of the Republic 679. Please take a stand and vote. Result of the vote: 78 votes to 13, with 1 abstention. The Personal Data Protection Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U96	Second reading of draft 751 of the Riigikogu decision "Replacement of capital subscribed by the United Kingdom in the European Investment Bank' initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur of the Monetary Commission is Vice-President of the Commission, Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U97	Honourable Riigikogu! Reminder: The purpose of this draft is to give consent to the decision of the Riigikogu to replace the capital subscribed by the United Kingdom in the European Investment Bank by other Member States, including Estonia. Let me also remind you that we are not making a financial contribution, that our share of the increase will be covered by the bank's reserves. The first reading took place on 21 November and no amendments were received within the deadline. We discussed this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 3 December in preparation for a second reading, and we went over more important issues, but no changes were made or anything similar. So it can be said that we proposed in full agreement that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, December 12. The Committee on Monetary Affairs also proposes a final vote on the draft. Once again, it was a consensual proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U98	Questions for the waitress. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U99	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! We are taking this draft here to vote, but at the same time it is not quite clear whether the British will leave the European Union at all and when they will leave. Maybe we're a little ahead of time. Or would it be possible to reserve this vote in case the British really leave?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U100	Thank you, good questioner! If this vote prevented Brexit, I would call on you all to vote against, but unfortunately this particular vote obviously cannot prevent Brexit. If there really is such a rare thing happening that winds will turn either in the nearest future or ever in the distant future, then it is likely that all proportions will be repositioned in the European Investment Bank. I believe that this particular draft does not play a role that is so important that Brexit's real outcome depends on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U101	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Javier. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Mr Riigikogu, there were no amendments to draft 751. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, Bill 751 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. Incoming check, please! 93 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to replace the capital subscribed by the United Kingdom in the European Investment Bank 751. Please take a stand and vote. 90 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with 2 abstentions. The Decision on the substitution of capital subscribed by the United Kingdom in the European Investment Bank has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U102	Third reading of Bill 650 of the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Marko Pomerants on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U103	Good afternoon, Chairman of the Riigikogu and ladies and gentlemen. I will do something unprecedented, but the Rules of Procedure will allow it. This is now a bill of 650, which, in our previous composition, also created different emotions here. Next time we start changing the Rules of Procedure, I think we should make sure that, just as there is no 13th row on the plane, we do not have a draft 650 procedure here that we are about to see draft 651. But what is the potential problem? I'm trying to explain myself with a parable. Some statesmen submitted a draft to the Riigikogu so that the Personal Data Protection Act could be implemented; other statesmen in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealt with this bill, and with the help of the large hall, we have also completed the second reading. At second reading, third countrymen believed that changes should be made for the sake of national security. It specifically concerns the law of imprisonment. They made the changes we accepted. The fourth statesmen, including many women representing one institution, thought that such a change could be unconstitutional. In real life, we cannot go through this fire test now, because on 3 March, everyone wants to be statesmen and countrywomen again. In order to avoid the danger that the next statesman, who is actually a woman, will not declare this law, I urge you not to give the 51 votes required for this bill. What can be done next? If this happens, tomorrow morning, the Constitutional Committee will issue a draft law on the application of the Personal Data Protection Act, where this possible conflict has been eliminated, and with common force, we will be able to reach a situation within the Riigikogu in which the Personal Data Protection Act, which we have adopted, will also be properly implemented. If it goes tomorrow, we're gonna start this bill, it's not going to be 650 anymore. Thank you. Once again, please do not support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U104	A taavi in the garment, is... No. On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, Marko was talking about the parable. I'm not talking about the parable. I'll tell you what's going on. The situation is very simple: the Chancellor of Justice has said that the government's proposal to grant the prison service the right to control more people could be contrary to the Constitution. It's a simple subject. It is in the draft law today, which means that Parliament would be very risky to adopt this law, knowing in advance that this is an unconstitutional situation. If the Chancellor of Justice has drawn attention to this, Parliament cannot fail to respond to it, although, in theory, we can fail to react, theoretically we can risk knowing that we are adopting an anti-constitutional law. We also proposed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a simpler solution for the government to withdraw this draft. As we know, the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act clearly states the possibility that the Government of the Republic can always withdraw the draft that it has initiated. I do not know why the government did not go this way, and now Parliament must use some unreasonable solutions in order for the law to be implemented. Two items have been withdrawn, we have adopted the Personal Data Protection Act and, of course, implementation law is also needed. However, if there were many problems with the main text of the Personal Data Protection Act, there were even more problems with the implementation of this law. 140 laws need to be amended so that the protection of personal data can be implemented. And now, not even at the 12th hour, but at the 12th second before adoption, we are facing a situation where there is a problem and this problem is serious. Leaving aside all the small details that are likely to arise, this problem is serious enough not to adopt this law. But I don't really like that tea for a gram. I understand from Marko why he chose this path as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs so that it would be good if this draft did not receive 51 votes. But let's say he can. A Member shall act in accordance with his or her conscience. Each of us can say that I don't have the paper where the Chancellor of Justice said so, and there will be 51 votes. Then we are in a situation where we are going to implement a law that cannot be implemented in accordance with the Constitution. Then it is as if we cannot initiate a new law tomorrow; we look forward to the President's decision as to whether or not it is contrary to the Constitution. But that would be extremely stupid, because we know in advance that this is a problem. The bad news is, of course, we didn't know a month ago that there might be a contradiction with the constitution. But it doesn't change that the correct way would be if the Government of the Republic withdrew the bill. If today had come to the Justice Minister's remote control... I understand he doesn't want to come, he's been in front of Parliament a lot and he's done a lot of shit, right? Everyone here has been reprimanding him for a long time and all the time. He doesn't want to come here and tell me he didn't make it again. But that's why you don't have to put Parliament in a stupid position and say, "Hey, you guys, take care of yourself." Of course we can do it, Parliament can always do it. Perhaps today we will have no choice but to press the red button. I do not know if the coalition will also press red and there will be an extraordinary situation where we will arrive at third reading and have 0 votes in favour and 90 votes against, which would be a kind of precedent and historic event. But that's where we are. If the government does not want to do its job and withdraw the draft, Parliament will show the government its position and say that yes, this draft will be withdrawn from the procedure and, if necessary, we will initiate it again. But once again, good coalition, do things under the right names. If there is a problem with this bill, it is correct to withdraw it. Then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or one political group or several political groups, or one ambassador, can initiate the whole text again, if necessary, and it will be possible to eliminate this nonsense. But to come today, too, on behalf of the coalition, to say that we're doing some kind of bullshit, it doesn't make sense. So the best of the bad choices must be chosen today, but I am very sorry that the Minister of Justice did not dare to come to this remote control, to admit that there is a problem and to withdraw this bill on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U106	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U107	Mr President of the sitting! The situation is indeed unprecedented and promising, what Hanno Pevkur has now painted for us here, that the opposition and the current government coalition will find full consensus by pressing the red button and sending the bill back. [[Laughing.]] If we really do this, it is probably the only such thing in the history of Estonian parliamentarianism, and even whole novels may later be written about it. But I wanted to start with the fact that in Estonia it is customary for the Postimees initiative to conduct one survey each February and March, which was the best law in the last calendar year and which was the worst law. These Postimees assessments have, of course, been made from the point of view of what matters to quite a large number of voters. Laws that have technical content and concern few people have no hope of being ranked in either of the best or the worst. I think that law, even if it were adopted, would have no chance of running for either of these titles. It would, of course, be realistic for him to apply for the title of the worst law. But we must realise that this is probably the worst-cased draft in terms of the quality of the work of the Riigikogu, which has ever been during its composition. Why is he the worst? That is because there is going to be the same problem that was at the beginning of this composition, perhaps you remember, in the law implementing the law on partnership. It was drawn up on the basis of the same ideology that it was as well established as possible which of the hundreds of existing laws would require some kind of amendment, then the titles of the laws were placed in the alphabetical order with a computer and submitted for approval of the draft. At the time, if you remember, this package offered 53 amendments to the law. In this case, the Ministry of Justice proposed more than 130 amendments to the law, eventually the number decreased a little, and this text, which we have before us, contains 126 amendments to the law and repealing one law. With regard to the law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, we analysed the situation quite thoroughly and it became clear that there were such changes that were necessary, there were certainly others that were absolutely unnecessary, and about a third of the legislative changes that had been introduced into this joint draft by the ministries, although they should have gone into the procedure as separate draft laws, and there were also completely random things. This package certainly contains all the same things. The most important thing here is the question of the attempts by individual ministries or agencies, as part of this great legislative package, to do something of their own, whether not related to the basic draft at all or very weakly linked to it. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U108	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U109	This also applies to what has now been pointed out, this is the subject of the amendment of the detention law. There is certainly a need to change the detention law from time to time, but it cannot be done first in this form, hidden behind a completely different sign. This should be done in the relevant committee, in this case it is the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. I still maintain the view that most of these important legislative changes should have been dealt with in the thematic committees and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should have come only in the area of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That's why I'm saying it's probably the worst-cased bill in my work. In essence, he may be a failure at times, but he may not be. Hanno Pevkur said in his speech that, of course, this implementing law is needed. I'm not quite sure that's the case. I think that, just as there was no need for law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, basically nothing would happen if there were no such law. Progress in this way is bad, but it cannot be said very clearly that none of the things that are written here is necessary or that everything is necessarily wrong. These materials are certainly divided into three parts: a part that is right and necessary, a part that is obviously unnecessary and harmful, and there is a part that is not, as I say, very much connected to the main issue. If we are now voting out of the procedure on this draft by rejecting it, my call is not to support Mr Pomerants' idea that we will, however, stamp it into a law with minor amendments in the next two months. In my opinion, the sensible way should be to divide this draft into thematic sections and to deal with each part with a sufficient degree of deepening. If our assessment is that we no longer have enough work, energy and time in this pre-election period, then these things can be left very calmly in the next Riigikogu, nothing disastrous will happen if there is no such law at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U110	Any other wish to negotiate? I don't see that wish. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. We'll do it in about a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the draft 650 as a law requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, please let us do a verification of presence. There are 86 delegates working in the Chamber. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 650. Please take a stand and vote. 45 Members voted against, with 2 abstentions. The draft 650 did not find the support of the Riigikogu and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U111	Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 717. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. There's no call. The Governing Commission... Sorry, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U112	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Enn Frontland! As there are more of us in the Chamber today, I call once again for those who want to deal with the issue of funded pensions to keep aside the explanatory memorandum to this draft, which has been properly prepared and which has been done for a long time. We hope, then, that the rewards for the right to increase the person's collection will be reduced, and we also hope that the risks that will be added will not cause problems next time the economy is not going as well as today. I believe in fund managers and quote Mr Viisemann, who, in my opinion, has said in the only possible and reasonable way that it is his job to deal first with the preservation of the assets of the people collecting the pension, secondly, that the rate of return exceeds inflation, and thirdly, his aim is to ensure that the return on his funds is better than that of others. That's the order. That's the only order I can get. In the following, payments from the funded pension scheme could be taken into account in a similar way. Here, too, there are question marks, there are new ideas, there are different options, including extending the use of fund pensions. It is worth discussing all of them, but certainly with the knowledge that the funded pension is also a pension that must be paid to the person for as long as he or she lives, not for a shorter period of time. However, it is necessary to find a reasonable limit on the amount of this monthly pension to be paid. The third way would be to extend the occupational pension possibilities further. Lately, England's example has been taken up in debates. I must tell you that in England there is a first pillar in our sense, in our sense the second pillar has never been and never has been in England, but there is a third pillar in the form of an occupational pension. The English were once free to join it in pure form, and now the system looks like it can voluntarily be abandoned and must be proved every three years. But today we will vote in favour of this bill and hope that the future will be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U113	Is there another wish for negotiation? The political groups do not have it. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws relating thereto 717. Please take a stand and vote. 85 Members voted in favour, one against, with no abstentions. Draft Act 717 on the amendment of the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U114	Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products initiated by the Government of the Republic, 706. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Please, Monika Hawkhammer! On behalf of which group? We're about to find out. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U115	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give a speech because I have tabled an amendment to bill No 706. In particular, in 2014, the provision of the Pharmaceutical Act entered into force, according to which a branch pharmacy may not be located in a settlement unit, a city with more than 4000 inhabitants. The Haruapteeks were granted a transitional period until 9 June 2019. During this period, there were three options: either to close the branch pharmacy, to move the branch pharmacy to a settlement with less than 4,000 inhabitants, or to transform the branch pharmacy into a general pharmacy. The aim of the legislator was to restrict the establishment of new branch pharmacies in larger cities, which can also be considered fair and justified. If we do not change the law currently in force, the branch pharmacies in cities with over 4 000 inhabitants will be closed from 9 June next year. Today we know from the website of the Medicines Agency that there are about 55 such branch pharmacies in different parts of Estonia. This problem is particularly noticeable in Ida-Virumaa, where the closure of 17 branch pharmacies threatens, six of which are located in Kohtla-Järve and seven in Narva. Two of Põlva's five and Rapla's four pharmacies will also be closed. In the district of Kohtla-Järve Valley, the nearest pharmacy is about 10 kilometres away after closing. It has been pointed out that tightening of the pharmacy network could significantly impair access to pharmacy services for disabled people and chronic patients. However, while the objective is noble, today's pharmacy owners, who are not pharmacists or are vertically integrated, have been in a regulatory trap for four years and have not been able to redesign their own branch pharmacies in the way that the legislator intended in 2014. Why? Today's owners are unable to dispose of their branch pharmacies separately from the main pharmacy because the branch pharmacy, as such, is not a separate legal entity and is subject to the licence of the main pharmacy. Nor does any non-provisor or vertically integrated owner operating in the pharmacy sector today have an obligation to dispose of his own pharmacy before 9 June next year, as the implementation of so-called ownership restrictions, and thus the final deadline for the transfer of pharmacies to a new owner, will be 1 April 2020. In the spring of this year, both the Chamber of Pharmacists and the Association of Pharmacists repeatedly addressed the Riigikogu and explained that they do not object to the extension of the transitional deadline for the abolition of the so-called "branch pharmacies" until 1 April 2020, but they stress that it is very important that they agree only if the pharmacy reform takes place as planned, i.e. on 1 April 2020. Therefore, I would like to stress that the draft 706 does not recommend turning back and does not reverse the reform of the pharmacy, which introduces the ownership of pharmacists and bans vertical integration. The draft provides for a transitional deadline for branch pharmacies as long as the entire pharmacy reform is in place, i.e. there will be a synchronising of the deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U116	Is there another wish for negotiation? It's not there. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 706. We'll do it in a minute. I am voting on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Government of the Republic, 706. Please take a stand and vote. The draft was in favour of 71 delegates, 6 against, with 3 abstentions. The draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 706 has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U117	Third reading of the draft Act on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 613. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to make a very stupid decision, or it's going to be the ones who want to push the green button. We are in a situation where the adoption of a single draft as a law should very seriously consider whether this draft, this amendment is needed or not. When we are talking about the pension system, the 'ultima ratio' principle should apply: we are not going to poke it unless we really need it. Right now, by poking the first pillar, we are breaking up a system that has worked and will continue to function if we do not break it. The impact of this decision on the labour market and the economic environment is in no way positive. What message do we give out of this hall if we approve this bill? We are sending out a message that there is an incentive to pay the envelope salary. Look at the latest research! They show that the payment of envelope wages has already increased from 8% to 13%. We may think what is behind this, but I dare say that one of the important reasons behind this is that the income tax system was changed. The income tax system should also be viewed in the same way as the ultima ratio principle, i.e. we are not pricking the system that works. This applies in particular to the taxation system. When it comes to taxation, the state must behave reliably and people must have a firm understanding of what is and how much is taxed. Income tax reform has led to an increase in the share of envelope wages. Now we are about to make another similar decision that will contribute to the growth of envelope wages. The Riigikogu cannot send the message to the Estonian economy and the labour market twice in a short time to pay the envelope salary! Let me remind you that every euro paid in the envelope means 20 cents less money to the pension fund. Every euro, 20 cents less to the pension fund! What else are we gonna do with this bill? We are demoting wage increases. Same thing as the tax reform: the state says that if you get paid more, you will be taken away more. Don't get paid any more! Now it's the same with retirement. It demotivates wage increases. I said this at second reading, and I repeat here: this draft reduces the motivation for people to remain in the labour market and later retire. Well, this isn't the way! We say that you must retire early, you are not needed in the labour market! What do you mean, it's not? We know how the economic environment and the labour market expect people to stay longer on the labour market so that the experiences that people have are used. In the labour market, there is a lack of working hands at all. Everyone knows that. Go ask the entrepreneurs! Everyone knows this, it does not need to be repeated, but it seems that we do not understand or that the coalition does not understand that the message behind this bill is very wrong. I read with interest from Postman that, oh, see, calculations have been made, which is the advantage of one system and one system and the other. Listen, those people who are motivated to earn a higher salary also contribute significantly more to the overall tax base. Those employers who are prepared to pay a legally higher salary will contribute significantly more to the tax base. Taxes only accumulate more when legal remuneration is paid, not when envelope wages are paid. If there's an envelope salary, it's zero. There is also a good point in this draft; it is a flexible retirement age. But today, I remind you, is retirement flexible and people are more motivated in this sense... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U119	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U120	... as a new system, especially in terms of later retirement. Instead of demolishing the pension system, the Riigikogu should look at the possibilities that help raise the pension. Of course, all the changes that will help to stimulate the economic environment must be addressed in order for the economy to grow and be able to speak, so that, for example, in the next four years, the pension can rise to EUR 200. It must be said that the state and Parliament should deal with the possibility for people to stay in the labour market longer. Instead of talking about early retirement, it should be said that we motivate people to stay on the labour market longer. We would also allow the higher taxation of working pensioners to be stopped. Similarly, there has been a long-standing principle that has been thrown back into the gutter: that the average pension should be exempt from income tax. This principle that the average pension is exempt from income tax must apply. Similarly, when we talk about motivating people, not demotivating them, it should be said that people must be encouraged to make voluntary contributions to their pensions, not to demotivate people. Voluntary payments to the second pillar could be motivated payments, rather than talking about losing the second pillar. No, it's not helping to raise pensions, not in any way! Pensione helps to grow when people think more about how to raise their pension assets, including in the second pillar. Pension assets and pensions will certainly be helped to grow if the country's economic environment is free enough to allow companies and our general prosperity to grow. This is what Parliament should deal with. We do not have to deal with breaking the principles of the first pillar, which so far have worked well and taken into account a person's contribution to the overall wealth of society and to the size of his or her pension. Yes, it may be a small part, but once again, this small step gives a message from this hall, which is much bigger. This much bigger message, in addition to changes in income tax and changes in the first pillar of pension, is that it can retire early. Don't be on the job market, don't get an official salary, but it's totally okay to get an envelope salary! Entrepreneurs, you don't even think you should pay legally! These are the problems why we cannot support this bill. Indeed, we cannot support it because the wrong direction is! I also call on others to oppose this bill in order not to allow the foolishness that is in this bill to pass through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U121	Please, Tiina Kangro! And, please, take your credentials with you! [[T. Kangro's talking about the hall.]] It's not a state secret. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U122	Thank you. Politics is a trading place, and today I managed to trade. The members of the political groups cannot speak at third reading. I managed to find a group that gave me the paper. So I'm going to make an additional speech because, at second reading, very few people heard the speech I gave because the hall was quite empty. There's more people here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U123	Just in case, Tiina Kangro has eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U124	Thank you. I want to touch on why we have this draft reform of the first pillar in the final stages today. This is understandable for the reason that, when the charts were analysed, it was found that the amount needed to pay pensions would start to increase gradually, and in order to avoid the risk that the state would have to pay more for pensions, as very often in such cases, the idea was that we would make some kind of move so that this amount would not increase. At the same time, let us recall what we all know that pensions in Estonia are extremely small. They have been extremely small since the beginning, and they are extremely small, in fact, even for people who have worked, served, and lived normally. In retirement, they still find themselves among very small pension beneficiaries. We all had the hope, decades ago, that with the addition of the second pillar, the money would start to grow and the second pillar component would increase pensions so that people would live normally. I'm not gonna go over those palm trees and whatever commercials you went through with it. They gave people, as a legitimate expectation, that at some point pensions would still be worth living. Now we are, as I said in the second reading, adopting a law that actually determines the endless and endless poverty of the entire Estonian people. People who are about to retire and who have 44 years of work have a pension that is made up of a retirement pension and the second part calculated on the basis of the salary they earn. It would therefore be hoped that people's pensions would rise. Now we're gonna cut off this uprising and leave all the people in poverty. The second argument I want to make is that it is well founded that we cannot allow people's pensions to be so different, even twice as different, that it is not possible that one person can live with half the pension that the other person can have. Here is another comparison: if people's salaries vary four, five or six times, and the state has not done anything very decisive about it, how is the problem now suddenly that pensions are different? I also, of course, believe that no one's pension, especially people who have worked, or those who have not been able to work in objective circumstances, must be below living standards in any country. The second question, however, is that in such a case, the state will simply have to find additional resources to bring very small pensions to a level where life is also decent for those who have not been able to stand up for themselves during the years of work. The third thing I want to repeat is that we have talked a lot about with different people in the Riigikogu, that the first and second pillars must be looked at at at once. If, on the one hand, we have come to the understanding that the second pillar is not working in Estonia, and there is a discussion among politicians and political parties about whether the second pillar should be fundamentally changed, then it is not rational to fix what is happening with the first pillar until it is clear what is happening with the second pillar. We certainly do not have a consensus in society, nor in the political landscape, on what path we should go. Against this background, adopting a law that will only change the first pillar for decades in a way that is not acceptable to many, I do not think it makes sense. That's all I wanted to say. The point of this speech is to encourage people who may still have doubts to decide in this Chamber that it would be better not to adopt this law in this form. As a final nuance, I repeat what Hanno has already said beautifully, of course there are some positive, absolutely right things in this draft, but there is no rush with them. It doesn't matter whether we adopt these flexible systems and stuff today or in half a year or a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it is that time seems to stop. We had a little problem with the timepiece, so I used body language, and we went by hand. Tiina Kangro never took advantage of her eight minutes. Helmen Kütt, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U126	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U127	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U128	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Today's final vote on the bill will begin in tens of years, but even more in twenty to thirty years will have a direct impact on the fate of hundreds of thousands of people. We are talking about amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which are reforming today's pension system. Before reaching the content of the draft, I will stop at a phone call that I received shortly after completing my second reading late on 5 December. The caller was a shop vendor working and living in South Estonia, who had followed the pension bat via a live broadcast. He was offended to tears by politicians who found that the servants of the minimum wage were themselves on their own small salary, or even more so by the future pension, because they had not bothered to study or work hard. The caller asked to tell the disparaging people that he had worked hard for more than 20 years, sat in the office during the late hours of the evening and during the holidays, went to overtime, and did not deserve such an attitude. He ended up having honestly received a lower or a little higher salary all along, never getting an envelope wage, but also raising two children on their own into good working people. According to the opponents, the new law rewards less work and, at the same time, reduces the motivation for people of retirement to continue working. There was also a suggestion of hurriedness in the draft law. These accusations are surprising as the analysis of the different options for pension reform started already in 2013 and 2014 and has taken place in different governments. The draft law was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 April and the first reading was completed in the Riigikogu on 2 May. On 1 November, the Ministry of Social Affairs presented to the Social Affairs Committee new proposals for the continuation of the procedure, in the light of the opinions of a number of organisations and having also examined the amendments. They were discussed by the Commission on 6 November, and it was the members of the Reform Party who asked for two weeks to discuss new proposals in the Group. In addition, the committee asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for an opinion and the explanations of the pension formula from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The fact that the Commission only had two days to discuss the draft is not true. In addition, recent improvements reduced the trend towards greater social solidarity that was in the original version of the draft. But the final version of the draft is a difficult-born compromise that should ensure that the drafts that have been autopsied by different governments become the law at all. Better half an egg than an empty shell. Since work and forms of work are changing rapidly, it cannot be avoided that this law needs to be amended again or even reformed over the years. The dynamics and development of employment and employment relationships do not make it possible to play psychic here. If we were to proceed in the same way with today's three-pillar pension system, the pay gap would be transferred to the ever-increasing pension gap. In other words, if no changes were made, a large number of people would not survive with their small pension and the state would have to support them and pay income support or other benefits. While the initial plan was to make the amount of one part of the first pillar pension depend only on the years worked by the person from 2037 onwards, a new pension formula of 50 reached the draft via the Social Affairs Committee: 50, which is the basis for calculating one part of the first pillar of the pension, is half-age and half pay. The reason was that this model should receive wider support in society and also reduce the payment of feared envelope wages, which had been highlighted in the original draft. This solution will also contribute to reducing inequalities and the payment of higher pensions, but not to the extent foreseen in the original option. The retirement age will continue to be 65 years, to which will be supplemented by a change in the life expectancy of persons aged 65 years according to the new formula for calculating the pension from 2021 onwards. Those who are already retired and are not in employment will continue to receive pension under the current system after 2021. For working old-age pensioners, the combined component calculated on the basis of retirement age and pay will be added when the new formula enters into force. The amendments to the Pension Insurance Act also provide for a more flexible retirement age and give the possibility to rejoin the second pillar to those born in 1970 to 1982. When the new system comes into force, everyone can choose when to retire based on their health, ability to work and interests. It is also possible to choose whether to receive part of the pension or to have the pension suspended and to resume it at the appropriate time. It is also commendable to have this provision, which allows pre-pensioners to receive early retirement and go to work at the same time. And yet, no one has touched on the subject of the caretakers today. Under the current law, only the social tax paid by the municipality and the municipality is taken into account for the pension rights of the carer, and this means that the amount of the insurance unit is very small in the calculation of the pension of the carer. Under the new regime, account shall be taken of the fact that he has been in business for a whole year and that social security contributions have been paid for that period when calculating the amount of the allowance of the carer. The pension formula takes into account half the insurance component and half the solidarity component and the result obtained is multiplied by the annual price. Since the caregiver does not make payments to the second pillar, all the money paid by the municipality goes to the first pillar, the guardian's part of the first pillar is therefore very important. Of course, the level of pay will continue to affect the amount of pension. The pension will consist of the first pillar, with an equal base for all, a seniority share, an earnings-related insurance component and a new one, which will be added in 2021, a second pillar, which will depend on the social tax paid on the person's salary, and a voluntary third pillar based on the person's own contribution. Even the most excellent surgery or medical procedure can only succeed if the janitor and carer do their job well. We often do not notice those people who have created opportunities to achieve a better result in their work. Maybe using a TV ad expression: there's always a back-up. We do not notice them because they work late in the evening or early in the morning, often receiving a salary well below the average, but their work is very necessary. The Social Democrats support this bill becoming a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U129	Marika Tuus-Laul on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U130	Ladies and gentlemen, However, we do not think that the pension reform that was made 15 years ago, the three-pillar system, has succeeded and we are today improving it. By the way, a few days ago, Tiit Toomsalu, member of Riigikogu IX, published an article on this subject. Very interesting reading on this subject for those who may or may not remember it all. In any case, the central group voted against this system at that time. Today we are changing this system, we are changing the first pillar of this law. If the current system were to last and the calculation of the pension would continue to be based only on average wages, then in the future, in a few decades, the difference in pensions would be much higher than today's difference and the pension for workers with a minimum wage would be quite low, EUR 250, and people with low pay would complain about why they would have to work for several years to get the coefficient 1. Today's pension system benefits the highly paid. The Reform Party wants to continue to support this system, as we can see in this Chamber. Under this system, those earning a higher salary would receive several times more pensions. In the opinion of the Reform Party, the contribution from work is shown by the size of the salary. In their view, servants of small wages are, as we have heard, like those who work and those who receive higher wages. Consequently, in the future, about three-quarters of the workforce would be able to start living below average wages from social benefits and income support. If we had stayed with what was in the spring draft, so that only the seniority would have been taken into account in the first pillar, then in years' time, the pension would be equally low for everyone. You could say you're a professor or a broom man, pension's the same size. Indeed, in this case, the employer would have had a strong incentive to pay part of his salary tax-free in an envelope. Linking the pension only to the minimum wage, which is applied to retirement years, would really have given the employer the opportunity to pay the payment only on the minimum wage. Today's draft provides, as you already know, for 50: 50 or 50% of the period and 50% of the salary. In this way, the beneficiary of the minimum wage would receive a higher pension. Of course, in the first pillar, an equal base is taken into account for all. We think this system is definitely better. Of course, future generations will decide on this, but in any case it would reduce the stratification of pensions and pensioners. It is certainly positive that retirement will become more flexible. The retirement age is 65 years according to the draft, plus a change in life expectancy for people aged 65 years. Of course, the first pillar is strongly linked to the second pillar. We all know that the second pillar system has not succeeded and enriches only fund managers. But I think this law will improve this second-pillar system, the productivity of investment funds will increase, and these things will get right. Of course, this is also the future, but in the form that it has been for 15 years, Estonia is one of the most recent funds in the world, the second from behind, it must not, of course, continue. So I think we're about to do what we've wanted to do for years. This law will in any case make our pension system fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U131	Aivar Chef, either on the spot or on your way... Good call, please, over here! Jürgen Ligi, is it a procedural question? No. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U132	Good manager! Good waitress! I do not think that there are any members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber who, when they meet with voters, would not have been one of the topics of the annual coefficient of a full-time employee in the past, the pension insurance unit in today's sense. This bill is one step towards a moral stimulus from the first pillar, so that people who work full-time can have a slightly better life in retirement. What is the purpose of this pension bill? The aim is to give people in retirement protection against poverty, to ensure the sustainability of the pension system and to motivate them to stay in the labour market, thereby increasing overall labour supply. Let's look at today's situation. Why is this reform needed? The population is ageing. There are currently two employees per pensioner, but in 2050 there would be 1.3 employees per pensioner. The population is shrinking, while people live longer. A higher birth rate would not save the situation. The large pay gap will also be reflected in pensions in the future. The average pensions of the 20% highest and 20% lowest pensioners would vary up to four times in the future according to the current system. So they're going to be going to be going to be going to be going to be going to be going to If the law is passed today, the difference will be 3.3 times. Without a legislative amendment, a considerable proportion of pensioners would need additional social benefits, which would require additional resources, i.e. collection of tax money. Unlike today, when there are only 1% of pensioners in absolute poverty, moral damage would be added, the loss of the dignity of the elderly, since people who have worked conscientiously for long years but with lower wages should apply for benefits in order to achieve basic success. As regards the formula, the draft initially submitted provided for a long transitional period to be taken into account only in the first pillar of the pension and the reliance on wages would have remained in the second pillar. However, it must be stressed that at the beginning there was also a possibility that 50% of the period and 50% of the salary will be calculated from 2021 onwards. There are two reasons for this change: to motivate higher pay and pay, and to minimise the possibility of a reduction in fair social tax payments on wages as a result of the changes, especially in a situation where some political forces make misleading claims throughout, such as the loss of dependence on wages from the pension system as a whole, and urges them to give up fair tax payments. This will also create wider opportunities to consider making the second pillar of pension more flexible, as the link with pay will remain in the first pillar. So I suggest that all members of the Riigikogu think that 75% of people currently working receive wages below the Estonian average. We do not want to see the pension for these people to be many times lower when they retire than for people who work full-time and receive more pay. It is always possible to get more money from the second pillar. Anyone with a higher salary has certainly invested resources for the future in order to make a better living in retirement. So the Fatherland is unanimous in its support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U133	There's no more calls. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 613. I am voting on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 613. Please take a stand and vote. There were 52 ambassadors in favour of the bill, against 34. Draft Act 613 on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U134	Third reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 714. Groups, would you like to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Since we're all together nicely, I think half a minute is enough. I am voting on the draft law amending the law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 714. Please take a stand and vote. There were 87 ambassadors in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 714 on the Amendment to the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U135	Third reading of draft Act 715 on Breeding of Farm Animals initiated by the Government of the Republic. The political groups have the opportunity to negotiate. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on draft Act 715 on the Breeding of Farm Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. The draft was in favour of 75 delegates, 5 against, with 1 abstention. Draft Act 715 on the Breeding of Agricultural Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U136	Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market, the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020 and the Structural Support Act for the period 2007 to 2013 Please, the political groups have a chance to negotiate. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market, the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020 and the Structural Support Act for the period 2007 to 2013 687. Please take a stand and vote. 82 Members of the European Parliament voted in favour of the draft, with one abstention. Bill 687 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U137	Third reading of the draft Act amending the Museum Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 716. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Act on Museums, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 716. Please take a stand and vote. 83 ambassadors were in favour of the draft, no one opposed, no abstentions either. The draft Act amending the Museum Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 716 has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U138	Third reading of the draft law amending the Vocational Training Institution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 704. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the amendment of the Vocational Training Institution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it 704. Please take a stand and vote. The bill was supported by 80 ambassadors, no one opposed, neither were there any abstentions. Draft Act 704 on the amendment of the Vocational Training Institution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U139	Third reading of Bill 705 amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Sõerd, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U140	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, There's nothing very fundamental to say about this bill. I would like to draw attention to one aspect that came on the agenda of the Riigikogu Committee on Finance in connection with this draft amendment to the Income Tax Act. Namely, after all the co-ordinations, I do not think I am exaggerating when I say that there was a secret addition that wanted to change the practice of the Supreme Court, which had been in place for eight years, with regard to personal income tax. This would have led to the taxation of corporate income as a personal income in certain situations. As the letter received from Soraainen law firm said, when the state starts collecting tax money in situations where it is recommended to start or promote business, it is clear that Estonian business will be hit significantly. The same letter from Soraainen's law firm was that which also woke up the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, after some dispute, that provision, or rather the description of that provision, went out of the explanatory memorandum. It is now very difficult to read out what was in it and what went out of it. In any case, I asked my colleague Priit Sibula, who was responsible for the draft, whether this shit went out of there. Priit assured me it was cleaned up. It is noteworthy, however, that the Ministry of Finance, Minister Tõniste, therefore, continues to consider that this matter was correct and that eight years of practice should have been changed, the principles of the tax system being turned on top of the head on a quite large scale. The Ministry only gave in because it was urgent and the Ministry wanted it off this year. Why am I saying this? It is noteworthy that such things are brought up in a situation where, as the studies show, the share of envelope wages is very high, although we should assume that we will no longer live in our nineties. Envelope wages are more than 10%, as the study showed, from 8% to 13%, their share has increased, and it is the current coalition that has made legislative changes to facilitate the payment of envelope wages. Another example is the revenue from excise duties. 2017 and next year's excise revenue will continue to be pushed to the Latvian Treasury. In three years, hundreds of millions will go away. That's not what we're doing, but there's a secret plan to start charging tax where it's not supposed to be. But, as I said, and as Mr Priit has confirmed, this problematic provision has now been deleted. Otherwise, I and the Reform Party Group, whom I represent, have no reproach. But this secret provision that appeared to be problematic is definitely something that I had to draw attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U141	Priit Sibul, is it a question or on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Alliance? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U142	Thank you. I would like to thank both Aivar Sõerdi and other colleagues from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Indeed, it is true, to which Aivar pointed out that the third parties did not see this provision in the coordination circles, but before this draft arrived at our house, § 51 of the Law amending the Income Tax Act, concerning a transaction for the purpose of obtaining a tax advantage, was intended to clarify § 12 (4). I assure both Aivar and all my fellow Members that, as a result of our joint work in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this provision is no longer included in this draft and the draft can be boldly supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U143	There are no further requests to speak. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 705. I am voting on the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 705. Please take a stand and vote. The draft was in favour of 80 delegates, 6 against, with no abstentions. Draft Act 705 amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U144	Ladies and gentlemen, before processing the draft law on the state budget at third reading, I will be very brief about how we deal with it. First of all, the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs shall be present for a maximum of 20 minutes, after which no more than two oral questions may be put to him. Representatives of the political groups will be heard during the negotiations. Then we will examine the amendments that have been tabled. I'd like Mikhail Stalnukhin to present his speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U145	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that the second reading of the draft state budget took place on 21 November. After that, by 29 November, a total of 20 amendments were received from the political groups of the Riigikogu: 14 from the Reform Party Group and six from the Free Party Group. We discussed them and related matters at four meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs: on 4, 6, 10 and 11 December. We decided to propose to the Bureau that the draft state budget be sent to third reading by December 12. We also had the opportunity to vote twice: 7 members were in favour of the conclusion of the third reading and 2 were against the Commission (with 0 abstentions) and 8 were in favour of the final vote on the draft (with 0 abstentions). Now for the amendments. The 14 amendments that came from the Reform Party Group virtually repeat those tabled by the same group for a second reading. In the Commission, the Government of the Republic was represented by Mrs Regina Vällik, adviser to the State Budget Department, and the argument for not supporting these amendments was the same. In case someone wants me to repeat what has already sounded at second reading, please just tell me what number it is. The same can be said for the six amendments tabled by the Free Party Group, although one amendment did receive partial support. One day we discussed 20 of these amendments, and one day we had a summary table with regional investments. There were three amendments from the Committee on Finance. One was about the details. This is a normal process. For example, those who have worked in local governments know that the local government provides the Ministry of Education and Research with an overview of which schools it employs, several students and teachers it has since September. The Ministry of Education will process this information in October-November. It will not be possible to calculate the payroll until this information has been processed. We talked about how these changes would come about, and we also received answers. However, some issues were raised during the debate, which are also reflected in the minutes. For example, in the Commission, we spoke again about Amendment 7, which was presented by the Reform Party to the Prime Minister Davos Economic Forum on the journey. The answer is that he does not have a participation fee and other expenses are not very different from those of the other prime ministers who have been invited to Davos, but this time the Prime Minister is organising a reception. As we know, Estonia is one of the most advanced countries than to talk about IT technologies, and it needs to be promoted, it needs to be advertised. It's an introduction in Davos, but it's gonna cost money. Secondly, there was a separate discussion about the allocation of management and general expenses of the Ministry of Education and Research for other purposes. Here is the explanation that, for the reasons that I explained earlier, salary costs, for example, will be included in the operating costs. And only when it is clear exactly what the composition of the employees will be and how much the educational costs associated with the payroll will be in this area can this money be redeployed. By the way, amendments 8 and 9 were not limited to this matter. Only today have we received another clarification, which is now a certified statement, which states that the following errors will be corrected in the text of the Estonian Ministry of Education and Research's draft law of 19 December 2019 submitted to the Riigikogu. These are purely mathematical errors. The number of investments replaced 512 is 517 and in another place, the text entitled 'General education programme (training programmes and organisation)'contains investment grants of EUR 208000. In fact, there must be EUR 200000. So 2 and 7, 8 and 0 are clear that there are fingertips involved. When we were discussing regional investment, colleagues in the Commission put forward a total of 14 questions about the 501 lines in Annex 1. For those of you who have the bill on the table, I'll tell them it's at the end. Among these questions were those to which the political groups from which these letters actually came had to be addressed, and that was the case. They were about the level of... [[Browse papers.]] For example, they asked what was meant by the contract training of the 32th NGO Socrates Club. Information was received that the field of the NGO Socrates club is other interest training, training on philosophy, world views, organisation of society, etc. A total of 14 times was asked about such information (e.g. about the monument of Konstantin Päts and the NGO Piidivabrik) as I have already said. And it is not excluded that there may still be errors in the text. We remember that improvements are coming in at every stage. I'd say that's all in general. I'm carrying... Oh, yes, Amendment 23 is what is about regional investment. There are therefore 23 amendments in total: 20 from political groups and three from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The three amendments proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs were supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U146	Questions. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U147	Thank you, Mr President. It was the Government representative's argument in the Commission that you highlighted the rejection of one of the amendments, Mr Waitress. If we are not a rubber stamp, I am more interested in the Commission and your own argument. I would like to ask specifically about Amendment 15, with which we wanted to give the prosecutor's office extra money to expand digital job opportunities in order to increase their procedural capacity, and to take it from the Institute of State Law, the purpose of which we do not understand. What is the Commission's position? In what sense does the establishment of an institute of state law have a better effect on our justice system than increasing the capacity of the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U148	Thank you. I, like everyone in this room, wouldn't mind if the D.A.'s office increased its capabilities. Only I hope that this capacity will never depend on an investment that is quite modest in size. The representative of the Government of the Republic spoke to which the majority of the members of the Commission agreed. The Public Prosecutor's Office will have a budget of EUR 14,4 million for next year. The budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office was allocated EUR 0.3 million in the process of setting up the state budget strategy 2019-2022, in order to strengthen the capacity to deal with priority crimes (including cybercrime). It's on the one hand. On the other hand, dedicated funds cannot be used as a source of cover. We have a purpose to use them, they simply cannot be taken away. That's one thing too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U149	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Between the second and third reading of this draft state budget, we also discussed large budget figures: revenue balance and aggregates. The structural balance is clear: it is assessed by the European Commission and, according to it, the budget is in deficit at 0.7%. However, in terms of nominal balance, we were left with the question, because the picture of the budget clearly shows, i.e. the figures we have ahead of us, say that the costs are 251 million more than the revenues. But Stenbock's house says there's a surplus of 130 million euros. The difference is 380 million. The other government sector, which is taken into account, cannot produce this because it is one tenth of this impact. You yourself also said when, under another point here, we addressed this issue, that we do not understand how this 380 million will come about, and we are all faced with a big question. How can we adopt the budget if we do not even know if it is in nominal balance, surplus or minus? How do we proceed with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U151	Thank you. Somehow we're going. I think last week we discussed last year's recapitulative report and there was one question. It was exactly the same question that you have just asked. Before that, there was a debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in which two people in the Ministry of Finance explained at length, and I would remind you that we talked about this issue for 40 minutes, how there will be a balance, how one or the other number will appear in the accounts. I realized then that it wasn't just me who understood it. There are also two former finance ministers and one Prime Minister in the Commission, and we do not really understand much, can not explain what and how. Let me remind you that this requires the smart book I have ordered for the Riigikogu. I hope it will come sometime, and then we will examine the relevant pages with you in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I realized it could be taken as an accounting instruction from the 1960s, as we were told, and we have nothing to do with it. If we had a cash-based budget, it would make sense. What's the difference, as I understand it? The cash-based budget gives you the opportunity to assess all processes relating to money in a very objective manner. I don't know if that's the right word, but it doesn't seem modern in today's Europe. We must comply with the rules that did not start today, yesterday or the day before yesterday. It began, as we heard in the Commission, in 2010. What can I do? We are moving forward exactly as the European Union directives provide for in this area. We will also receive these numbers exactly as foreseen. Yeah, apparently it's minus 250, but it's actually plus 130. We are going to live by it as long as those people who do the calculations in the European Union or here at the Ministry of Finance do not come to our seat in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U152	Rocks Hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U153	Thank you. Good Mikhail, my question is on Amendment 23. As you mentioned, there have also been further clarifications on this major and substantial amendment today. Of course, we all want this amendment to be such that the will of the legislator is clearly expressed there. I have a question in the interest of the protocol, I want it to be recorded in the verbatim record of position 479, which states 'Rõuge Municipality Government, Reconstruction of the yard of Varstu kindergartens'. This is precisely one kindergarten, and since the Social Democratic Party Group has proposed it, I remember that there should be'renovation of the yard of the doctor and Rõuge kindergartens'. My question is whether I can count on the understanding of the chairman of the committee, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, perhaps, the great hall, that if the Ministry of Finance is going to sign a contract with Rõuge Municipality Government, that is the wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U154	Thank you for your question. Yes, I think that, as with all documents, this text will be further editorially improved. You can't quite get rid of the typing errors. They still happen with a big document like this, it's quite common. So I guess things like this can still be fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U155	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U156	Thank you. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we have discussed the consequences of excise policy very often on the budget and related issues, including the fact that already one in four bottles of alcohol purchased by Estonians is purchased from Latvia. The indirect effects are also extreme, including the sudden fall of Finn tourism to Estonia. Despite this, the coalition voted down all attempts to improve alcohol policy, all attempts to leave this tax money in Estonia. How do you justify that? Are you fundamentally opposed to admitting errors and correcting matters, or is it only about beer excises, in which case you would like to drive stubbornly towards the abyss?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U157	Thank you. I mean, how do you get in this hall without any excise talk, that's for sure. I mean, the great thing about this hall is that we have a 100% democracy. If you want to believe what you're saying, no one will make you think differently. However, it is also not possible to force me, and no one can, for example, make Mr Ernitsa think differently. He once said here that beer is so expensive because the Chairman of the Monetary Commission doesn't drink beer. I really liked that flash of thought. I mean, that's your opinion, that's your hypothesis on this issue. I would trust more specialists in this situation and not because we are in different political parties. I'm gonna have to trust those specialists who do excise duties at the Ministry of Finance, no matter what. They make it clear that lowering excise duties no longer cures or brings back the proceeds of border trade. So argue with them, not with me. However, we have the right to opinions that somebody likes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U158	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I am not entirely satisfied with your first response. It turns out that the Riigikogu is creating new institutions here with the state budget, and the Commission has no other view of this than that the planned ad hoc provision should not be affected. That idea could be clearer what one thing or another is for. But I'll continue with the details. Our 16th amendment provided for EUR 2.7 million to be taken from political parties. Political parties have been luxuriously funded in Estonia, at a higher level than in other European Union Member States. Tell me why this money is more needed for political parties than for the Defence League to buy vehicles and communication equipment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U160	Thank you. The Defence League is fully financed within the framework of the defence policy; we have it specifically highlighted under the financing of the Ministry of Defence. In my opinion, the Defence League is one of the best funded organisations in Estonia. We have already spoken at second reading on precisely this issue and we have also discussed it in the Commission. I don't remember who the smart guy was, but he reminded me that every time you buy a vehicle, you have to plan the gas costs, the repairs, the driver's salary, everything that goes with it. It's not just that you bring a new car to the yard and then do whatever you want. That's usually how it works. And I'd like to see it if in this country, in this Riigikogu, someone would hurt the Ministry of Defence or the Defence League. In my opinion, those institutions that receive virtually all the money according to their plans, and in two cars there is no question at all, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U161	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm still asking you about this: how the budget in the deficit budget in Statistics Estonia got balanced or how the budget in the deficit budget in Statistics Estonia was balanced. These accounting adjustments can be described. Statistical adjustments can and have been described numerically and textually. For the 2017 budget, these descriptions were available in the annual report. What was stopping the Ministry of Finance? For what reason did they not describe these adjustments in the explanatory memorandum to the state budget? After all, you have been chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control for a long time. There have been problems with the understanding of the budget statement in the past. Why don't they do it? What's this about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U163	Thank you for your question. Yes, I was chairman of this committee when we prepared the report. Kristjan Kõljalg lucky that thing. I was his replacement, but I didn't have to do anything: honestly, he did all the work. Everyone interviewed here from members of the Riigikogu wanted greater clarity and everyone wanted to change things. This was at the time when the Reform Party was at the head of the Government of the Republic. We decided in this committee, the REKK, that this work should be carried out by a member of the Riigikogu by the government, then it will be more effective. He did so, reported the results, and a publication came out of it. This was not heard at the time, and for no reason is it heard today. I've already talked about it in this hall. I am quite serious about those who will continue this work in the next composition. It would be necessary to start work right from the beginning and show that this spirit exists, not to leave this subject for four years and to chew it here forever. Yes, I do not like the form in which the state budget is now being presented. I have said this not only in the opposition, but also in the coalition. But the experience you have, Mr Sõerd, who you are, former Minister of Finance, I don't have. After all, you know much better than I do what needs to be done in order for us here to find a common language for all, for the coalition and for the opposition, there is the same interest and take some steps to improve it. Is it still possible to go back to its easiest form, its cash-based budget? That's one side of the question. Second, from Statistics. After all, it was made clear to us that the Statistical Office must take stock of the budget for Eurostat. And Eurostat, which is obliged to process the 28 national budgets, wants them in the same form. We were told about it, and we had specialists. Let me know if they need to repeat it, but I remember what they said. I thought I gave it to you once again completely adequate. That's all that's going on at Statistics Estonia with the state budget. Let me remind you once again that we agreed that we were going to Statistics in January, and we only have one topic that we are talking about. We are not talking about how he is distorting numbers in the state budget, but about what he is doing with it, about the preparatory work for Eurostat and what it will change for us. I think it doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U164	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U165	Thank you. Good waitress, you have said yourself that finance is not your greatest passion and competence. Therefore, I am not going to ask you about financial nuances, I am asking for a moral assessment. How do you assess, in a situation where during Christmas, the food bank collects donations so that children can eat sweets and start campaigns to save children with cancer, that at the same time a million euros will be given to an IRL non-existent NGO, one IRL Saaremaa boy, 50,000 euros to a non-existent NGO and one known corruptant and criminal in Narva, a former middle party Ovsjannikov, 100,000 euros? In this context, how does your moral assessment of these choices sound? Was it not possible to make better choices in the distribution of roofing money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U166	Thank you. I'll start at the end. When you were talking about the industrial park Nakro and linked it to Ovsjannikov, you did it absolutely for nothing. It is led by another person who has also visited your neighbor, Taavi. All Estonian prime ministers and presidents have been to his industrial park at all. It's an organization that took a bankrupt business in the mid-1990s. It was a skin factory. The person was offered bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. empty places, as happened with the Narva meat factory and milk combined. But the person took this company into his own hands, and now there are 37 companies in his territory that employ about 1,200 people. He is currently preparing the next major industrial building, which was also bankrupted in Narva in the 1990s. It develops only its own resources using the industrial premises of the former furniture factory in the territory of Narova, where it employs 450-600 people. I take his words very seriously. First of all, there will be an exhibition site that is huge, the size of three football fields. An international agricultural engineering exhibition has already been planned in April. So there is support for entrepreneurship there, not for the gentleman you mentioned. He's not even next door. And when we're done here, I could tell you something funny about your idea in the hallway, given what kind of relationship the gentleman you've actually called, and the one who's doing the work there in particular. As far as the rest of the objects are concerned, I don't know that much about them. But there's a coalition agreement, and you know perfectly well what it is. The agreements should be valid throughout the duration of this agreement, and there is a degree of freedom within the framework of that agreement. The Minister of Justice believes that such an institution is needed, and he has not only answered these questions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs if I am not deceived by memory. Wasn't that a story in a free microphone? I don't know how to comment on a bigger one here. These things have been supported. They have been offered by the Ministry of Justice and we support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U167	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U168	Good manager! Good waitress! As my name came up, I would like to remind Mr Stalnukhin how he answered Krista Aru's question on 14 December 2016 about the impact on border shops. It is written in the Riigikogu verbatim: 'I really find it difficult to understand this concern because I myself do not drink beer. ' But here's my question. If you look at regional investments, for example, the food bank and the Jewish kindergarten will receive EUR 5000, but the Võru dog training court will receive EUR 25000. Võrumaa attracts a great deal of attention from the point of view of regional investment. My question is why there is such an unbalanced regional investment plan, where some counties get dirty money and others get their hands on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U169	Thank you. My colleague, I want to say two things to you. First of all, a specific sentence must not be ripped out of the context, if a person is likely to have spoken a much longer story, there should still be an explanation. When we talk about border trade, it was then, on that date, on December 14th, or what you mentioned, you also mentioned other things, if memory doesn't deceive me. Border trade means small shops, which were once immense across Estonia. I gave this example that in Narva, where I live, there were three shops around a 300-metre radius, and here in Tallinn, where my mother lives, there were four shops within a half-kilometer radius. None of them are now. And I also gave an example of how we talked about border trade in this Riigikogu conference hall. The representatives of the border shops came in to the representatives of the large chain stores because the large chains of commerce would wipe out the small shops. It is understandable that they are not competitive. Whether I drink beer or I don't drink beer doesn't depend on anything. It's a good thing to talk in this big hall, not like in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where you, Jürgen, can intervene at any moment and start talking about it. And another thing: the regional investment plan has 501 lines. It is not possible to take two lines and draw any conclusions from them. If you're talking about breeding dogs or what it was and you name a sum, then yes, there are people who treat animals with great love. Like the ones who are bombing our mailboxes right now. 150 letters came in yesterday, and 80 more came in today before the hearing started here. God knows how many more will come before this bill ends up in this hall. But not only do they love animals. For example, this year I also allocated roofing money to the NGO for the repair of the cat room. Where 180 abandoned cats live together, ventilation must be provided. Otherwise, people who go in there will just give up their jobs in ten minutes, and it won't be possible to be there without a gas storm. There must be repairs, there must be normal flow of water, etc. So it would take more material to talk about why breeding dogs get more money than anyone else. Every row has a purpose, every row has a justification. The way you draw that conclusion will be a secret to me. But at least there's some fun moment inside because I can never guess what you're asking. That's great!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U170	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress, your last answer proved that the government's coalition has turned state government into government. It actually makes you sad when, on the one hand, you talk about how you create justice through tax changes and investments and, on the other hand, you take money away from local roads. This has clearly decreased and these figures are also visible in the budget. And then you personally disperse this money all over Estonia and say that this is regional policy. That's what's really annoying in this hall. And since these numbers have grown to a large extent, I have this question: did you not once, as chairman of this committee, have the idea that perhaps there should be a limit and a share of money so that the local authorities could compete equally? If we look at today's map and how the money from the roofs is shared, then there is no regional policy at all that has depended on who gets along better and knows better how to get along.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U172	Thank you. We've talked about the roads here many times. Several times it has also been said that certain projects are running out, which is causing this financing to fall. There is no longer such need: one or the other is running out of construction and investment is decreasing. As far as this regional grant map or so is concerned, if I may, I will tell a 20-year-old story. I came here in 1999 and then the state budget was in the form of three yellow books. One was the state budget itself. The second was the explanatory memorandum to the state budget, which had it all written off: everything was absolutely clear. The third was a very important book. It was the RIP, or public investment programme. I started looking at it with interest, and it turned out that all the investments that were supposed to go to my neighborhood were either pushed right from the start to the devil knows where or they started to be surrounded for one reason or another each year. I think you can find here in the archives of this institution, for example, an inquiry that I submitted to the Minister of Education Lukas. I said this: why do we have 0.9% of the budget investments of the Ministry of Education when the population of the city of Narva is 5.6% of the population of the Republic of Estonia? Those were so terrible figures that I still remember them. This is so that this whole and random government may not see the need that has arisen on the ground. I think we'll level it out. I, along with my colleagues, do exactly this work, and you, too, support it, you do not object to it. We look at the regional investments that were made in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. For five years, the Reform Party Group distributed 6867000 euros in Estonia. I'd round it up and say seven million. The Centre Party Group spent EUR 4210000 in the same period. Consider, though, that you have refused this money for two years. How can this happen? Explain! I mean, that's completely absurd. But in this absurdity, we live, and there's nothing more to it than that someone is likely to have to interrupt this process. Make such a serious suggestion the next time you're in charge of the government. I think everyone's behind you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U173	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U174	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! In fact, it is pathetic to hear that one of the chairmen of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in Parliament does not make any distinction between what is regular and what is normal, but puts everything together and believes that if he is in power, everything is allowed. But I'm trying to ask a specific question. You like the word'regional investment'. Tell us why the Centre Party is financing the renovation of municipal buildings in Tallinn. Where is regional policy, where is systemicity and where does stealing start?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U175	Oh, my God! [[Sighs.]] 30 or 40 years ago, I would've said that if it was pathetic to listen, don't listen. Secondly, you or some of your colleagues do not like my thinking. After all, understand that there is such a thing as democracy. I'll get it. There is such a thing as democracy. If it were otherwise, Ligi and Stalnukhin would probably be in one party and then their views would be perfect for each other. Take a normal view of people thinking differently, not like you. As far as regional policy is concerned, I would like to know how you justify that Tallinn is not part of Estonia. The region is part of a territory, and the regions have features that characterize them, much to do. If you would say that Kiev is not a region of Ukraine, you would be called a separatist in Ukraine. You will prove here that Tallinn is not part of Estonia. Of course it is. And the members of the Riigikogu elected from Tallinn have the full right to use the measures that they have at their disposal to support their region.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U176	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question concerns amendments 10 and 11. Both would have contributed to an increase in R &amp; D funding. In fact, an increase in doctoral student support would also have supported society as a whole. What were the reasons why neither of the proposals was supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U178	Thank you, Krista! You understand perfectly well that there are no people here who do not support doctoral students or science. Only there are many other things that need to be supported. There is always a need to make choices. Governments that kept doctoral student support very low at EUR 323 or 343 are clearly those who did not support it. This year it has risen to EUR 660, which is a 50% increase compared to last year. We have, for example, the average pay of the rescuers at EUR 700, which is well below their Latvian colleagues, as we have heard here. There are many other problems and there must be some choices. You can't put as much money on everything every year as you want. Every person would want to do that, but that's not the choice. The logic here is probably that, if this support has risen to EUR 660 in the last year, a little break could be taken and someone else could be helped in the meantime. As far as science is concerned, yes, there is some under-financing here. I don't know if such an answer will satisfy you. I'm sure you know better about education and science. In 2017, HTM had a budget of 135 million R &amp; D &amp; I and 151 million in 2018. In 2019 it will be 171 million. Well, there's an increase, it's an increase, it's even a little bigger than the overall 6% increase in the state budget. Such are the priorities chosen, agreed and discussed. I can say with 100% certainty that it's not like an official sitting around telling him to put that amount. It goes through the Ministry, it goes through the Academy of Sciences, it goes through the organizations involved. All these figures shall be agreed and coordinated. Yeah, I'm not happy. Yeah, I'd like more. On the other hand, a fantastic person once sat in this hall and in me, how to say, a very large person. It was Mr Liv who was the only medic in our political group at the time. Once we asked him how much medical money we needed. Then there were the crowns. He said that exactly as much as you give: if you give three national budgets, you will find a way to take advantage of it. After all, we understand that we must be guided by some objective criteria, and those who balance this budget are based on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U179	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U180	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, you have talked quite a lot about choices and priorities here. Hence my question, even several questions. The first question: why did the Centre Party Group decide not to support, for example, the renovation of Narva kindergartens or schools by supporting instead the criminally sanctioned central party Ovsyannikov, who was already mentioned and who, according to the information register, is still a member of the board of Intec-Nakro MTÜ? I would also like to ask the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs how much roof money has been distributed by the political groups. Was the Commission meeting also discussing whether, in some way, we should develop rules on how, to whom and to which the roofing money is allocated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U181	Thank you. I would question your reading skills if I were to rewrite the story of Ovsjannikov here for the second time, so read the verbatim. As for Narva day care, I have supported them. And it's always nice to know when state money can do something useful on the eastern border. I've actually been talking about priorities. I understand, Olga, that you have written a question much earlier and it would be absolutely foolish not to put it forward if it is so sharp. You did the job. Read the verbatim: there is already an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U182	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U183	Thank you, good Chairman. Chairman of the Commission, I have a question about Annex 1. Row 28 and line 202 deal with exactly the same destination: To build the Päts monument, one 100000 comes from the Ministry of Finance and the other 100000 from the Ministry of Justice. How could the Commission decide if the project does not even exist? Yesterday, there was another article in Postimees that showed that it has not even become clear whether Päts is alone, with Tõnisson or anyone. How was the Commission able to decide on this and to distribute grants from different ministries? What are the reasons behind this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U184	As far as I can tell, it's two monuments. One comes somewhere next to the Estonia Theatre. Yeah, there were a couple of nice versions of how it could look next to Tammsaare or on the knee. This is about the fact that there are probably historical characters to whom these monuments could be placed. I am not so good in Estonia's history, I am more interested in ancient Greece and Old Rome. But people want to deal with it and put these monuments on it. In principle, the Commission did not object.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U185	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U186	Thank you. The coalition has taken advantage of the rhetoric that roofing money is regional investment. It would be beautiful if it were true. In fact, there are at least ten regional programmes in Estonia, from which it would be possible to support Estonian regions, municipalities and institutions with complete honesty, transparency, procurement and procedural rules. Still, there's not a penny more money in it, and instead they do some random party deals. But I will come more specifically to the local roads, which we discussed during the previous reading. The government, which calls itself a friendly government, will reduce the funding of local roads by several million next year. Why did you not support the Reform Party's proposal to increase the financing of local roads? Procurement gets more expensive, roads fall apart, soft winters are all the troubles you can read about in the paper. And yet you are reducing the funding for local roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U187	Thank you, Arto! I mean, there's gonna be an election soon, and I really wish you luck. Since, according to research, our two political parties are major competitors, no one knows who will form the government. That's what voters say after a while. And if it is to be formed here by the Reform Party Group, I promise you that I will support you if you propose a system for fairer distribution of these regional investments in the preparation of the next state budget. I'll do everything I can to make it happen. It's probably every year, it doesn't fall away, but we'll wait that long. As far as you're concerned, I wouldn't want to offend anyone how to say it. I have once worked in a vocational school, there I have taught Estonian. There was such an audience that in some groups I had to explain the same thing three, five or ten times. Since the first three times it was clear that I did something wrong, I explained it somehow wrong because they didn't understand, it was necessary to change the explanation or form. There was a game to come up with: throw the ball, change the envelopes, or something. That's where I got how many of those tricks to use. But in this hall, I'm kind of just in shock. I stand before the need to answer the same question for the fifth time. I understand that this is one of the issues you would like to tie politically to the clock, but I have already explained this. This is project-based and this support has been reduced simply because larger projects are running out in some places. It is case-by-case and will go to local authorities through grants and fine-tuning in the form of additional amounts. So I just don't know, ask me five more times. Maybe I'll figure out a way to explain it to you in some other way, sticking in the same frame.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U188	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U189	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! It's my real day of joy. I have been a member of the Defence League for 28 years, but today I first heard someone say that the Defence League is enough and one of the best funded organisations in Estonia. I quote from the Bible that now you can call your servant away because his ears and eyes have heard everything. But now to the question. I will continue along this route that you like to call these allocations for regional investment. Why, then, is it that some regions are preferable to others, some regions in Estonia still receive significantly more money? How have these priorities developed, and why are some regions in a better position than others?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U190	Thank you. It's a party day for me, too. I learned today that my colleague Milling is reading sacred books, this is a really big surprise to me. How do these regional priorities arise? Very simply: you are chosen from somewhere, and I have been chosen from somewhere, and it is in our hands and we decide where we are going with this money. That's how they come to be. The Reform Party has had a free hand to channel these EUR 7 million, and the Centre Party has had a free hand to place these 4 million in five years. This is how these priorities arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U191	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! What you quoted was a reference to a five-year plan in one year. Perhaps it is a question of breaking certain practices. Whether this is methodically correct or not, we must certainly continue to argue. You referred to RIP and Narva's injustice. If I remember correctly, part of the importance of the RIP and regional policy was linked to the fact that the coefficient of the amount of money actually invested per person was usually higher in rural areas than in cities. That was part of it. We know that in Tallinn, the GDP per capita is many times higher than in South Estonia. It would therefore be quite unfair to support this place, Tallinn, still so forcefully. There is enough money coming from the economy already, should support places outside Tallinn. This is regional policy. Regional policy is not that the ambassadors of Tallinn want to give money. This is not exactly regional policy. Why have you not made the proposal you expect from the new coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U193	Thank you. There's so much I want to tell you right now. First of all, the coefficient. I think you're confusing something. This is more about financing schools. When I was on the council, the financing rate for the big city school was 0.89, if I remember correctly, and the small island school had it 1.4 or 1.5. I don't remember exactly. However, there were no such rates in the public investment programme, or RIP, at the time. It certainly wasn't. As far as Tallinn is concerned, I know that you are not a tallinian. I'm not a tallinian either. I've traveled the world very little, much less than some of my colleagues here. But on some occasions when I started talking to local government representatives somewhere in Europe, we immediately understood each other because we do not all love the same thing. Above all, we do not love the capital because we must find the means on the ground to support the school system, the kindergarten or pre-school education system. We must do all we can to create the conditions for children to grow healthy, wise, and strong people. After that, the smartest and strongest go to the universities and don't come back. This means that we are constantly investing in the capital through our activities. There have actually been times when our group basically did not give regional investment to Tallinn. When I'm talking about this sum, 4 million, it's been years since we had that rule. Later, since all the other groups have done so, it would be foolish to refuse this money. Yes, Tallinn will have everything. There are many things in Tallinn that are not in other cities, and our people live here. How do you argue with that? Nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U194	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U195	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, with reading skills, ptüi-ptüi, you are doing well, but I think there is a problem with the ability to answer questions. However, I did not hear the answer to how much each group has asked for the money from the roof, the amount of money that has been distributed by the political groups. You just had a very long monologue on the subject that you should also support the capital. I couldn't agree more. No kindergarten in Lasnamäe, the largest part of the city, gets a knack from the Centre Party or from other groups. This is really a very unfortunate thing. Why do we still have to spend a million euros on the Estonian family's foundation, on the non-existent foundation, instead of supporting kindergartens in the Lasnamäe district, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U196	Thank you, Olga! I'm not the person who's competent to answer that question. This is the Justice Department's initiative. I think that if you ask them an inquiry or a written question, you will also get a thorough and constructive answer. I am speaking here on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I will explain the decisions that have been taken and which are collegial. So why don't you leave me out here without picking me individually, and I'll give you the information.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U197	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U198	Thank you, good speaker! Mr. Stalnukhin! In my opinion, this is a mentality, according to which rulers freely distribute money from taxpayers to their relatives, quite frankly coming from another cultural space. But here you stand and distribute money to foundations and associations with members of the power parties among their leaders. Among these leaders are those who are very closely associated with the people of your power party. In Narva, you expelled those of your party who voted in favour of allocating money to their associated associations. Why are you two acting different around here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U199	Thank you. There are rules on which all such proposals are examined. This control must and will be carried out in the Ministry of Finance and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There the members of the Riigikogu are sought to be associated with leading figures, etc. I don't know how it works, but this mechanism exists and should work. So if you want to blame someone, you have the chance. You can do this in public, either through the media or through a court of law. For God's sake, if you find anything, we are truly grateful to you for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U200	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U201	Thank you. I don't think the mechanism can prevent that. We can see very well that non-existent NGOs are given quite brutal sums of money and their involvement with specific coalition parties is obvious. That's something everyone understands perfectly. One thing is that it may not be criminal, but I believe that its unethicalness is clear to everyone. But I want to talk about something else. Let us look at this budget as a whole: despite rapid economic growth, the budget is negative. Hundreds of millions of potential budget revenues pass us, go to Latvia. The money is being taken away from the construction of the eastern border, from local roads to a whole series of investments in previous governments' budgets. However, when I asked all the ministers in the Committee on Monetary Affairs who came before us, what is the positive reform of innovation you are doing, everyone owed the answer. My question is simple: is this really the best budget the coalition can do under the leadership of Jüri Ratas?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U202	The next time you have to bring a little less paper here: I wanted to read to you about the process of building a border. There were two graphs. One was a graph originally drawn up by some non - expert, and the other was made after it became clear that there were really specific problems with design and construction. That's when it moved on for three years. The purpose of the graph was to show that it was the same provisions: 79 million in both cases. There are real problems with construction, but nothing terrible will happen here. Those people who do this say they can't build a border on the basis of their original schedule. And the same argument would be for all the other points, i.e. I reject all these accusations. There has already been talk about what this budget is like. I understand that you represent not only the Reform Party, you are among its leaders. There is already a word in the name of the party, the idea of which is that we reform, reform, reform. Who told you that people so badly want one reform to come after another? Perhaps it would be much better if either a year or two were skipped and a peaceful year would come, if the promises laid down in the coalition agreement were simply fulfilled, there would be no fundamental or major changes in the tax laws. We will let the Estonian people, Estonian entrepreneurs, rest for a year or two in order to make the whole atmosphere more peaceful. You are in favour of reforms, you need them. I like it more when there's some kind of peaceful process going on. Reform for reform is harmful. I could give you some examples in this area, but it wouldn't really affect you anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U203	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U204	Thank you, Mr President. A good colleague, the problem of additional taxation for working pensioners is still unresolved. In my understanding, this is a problem with very fundamental and far-reaching negative consequences. In fact, the coalition probably also understood this and promised to find a solution to this problem in February this year. Let me ask you this: maybe you can explain what's behind this? Have there been any significant priority issues in the budget? Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U205	Thank you. You are now asking about the coalition, i.e. how this pension taxation and such issues were probably discussed there. I'm not a member of the coalition council, I'm not a member of the government either. The reason why one thing or another is all the more so when it concerns the social sphere rather than the finances, when someone had promised to do so, is also incomprehensible to me. I can talk to my colleagues about this, although it is probably no longer helpful at the moment. The question is whether we care about pensioners or not. Of course, we care: there will be an increase in pension and, in a good case, there will also be an extraordinary pension increase. And the people who gather here can't do anything to make them make mistakes without mistakes. If they find that errors in income tax have been made, they will also correct them in the next composition. At the moment, there is no way to do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U206	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U207	Good manager! Good waitress, while we were still in the joint group, I kept asking where the formula for this roofing money comes from, that little brothers get half as much as the big brother of the Central Party. Now I ask you again who you are in the new role, why are the Social Democrats, the little brothers in the coalition, getting some EUR 140000 for each ambassador, but the big brother's ambassadors, who are half the number, get some EUR 60,000. What's this formula? And secondly, where does this regional formula come from? The story is about regional investment, which makes Võrumaa a lot more money than the rest of the counties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U208	Thank you, Peter, of course for the question. But I've never asked how much the Social Democrats get or the Fatherland get. See how much you lost? If you had been in the Centre Party Group in no joint group, such a group does not exist, you could have asked directly from the Group's leadership. I didn't do it. Besides, when I look at this table, I don't see anywhere that it indicates the name of the party whose member has made one or the other direction. It's our general work, and under these circumstances, I don't go asking questions like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U209	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U210	Thank you, good manager. Madam waitress, when we met here with you at second reading of the budget, I asked what was the reason for voting down in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the proposal of the Reform Party to abolish the higher tax imposed on working pensioners, which came into force at the beginning of this year. You were indebted to the answer at the time, because you did not have the right papers with you, and you promised to clarify it later in writing. Unfortunately, it emerges from the written answer, as if there was no particular justification for it. I am therefore forced to repeat my question: why, on what grounds did you choose not to support the proposal to make the tax system for working pensioners fair again?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U211	Thank you. Because your source of cover consists of three parts: public transport, rental homes, restrictions on the establishment of a municipal housing fund and alcohol excise duties. As far as I can tell, it doesn't fit the coalition in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U212	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U213	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! I am astonished by the ninth amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account: the resources to organise a conference on the history of the People's Front - EUR 30000. When's this gonna happen? Who's there? Is this the next monument to Edgar Savisaar?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U214	Thank you. I do not know who Estonia will be doing monuments to in 100 years' time, who were the people who took our country out of the Soviet Union without blood and made us independent. Were these the wonders that were there: Kallas, Savisaar, and others? I am not a historian and I have already told you about the history of Estonia. The people's front is, in my opinion, a very serious factor in the history of the last century. If you value it as a Savisaar monument, prove it to the public. The Congress of Estonia and the People's Front, I don't know, maybe I have some lack of knowledge, maybe there were other organisations that dealt with it. What else to talk about? I think that if there is a need, the Congress of Estonia may also have the means to hold an equivalent conference, but I think the Popular Front deserves it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U215	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U216	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear colleague, I will ask again about the additional taxation of the same working pensioners. I didn't get it. You said you weren't in the coalition or its council, of course not in the government or anywhere. But I will ask you, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, why, after all, the bill that we have tabled is probably 554 with which we have tabled an amendment on the budget and with which we want to change this taxation, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has stopped. Maybe you can answer that. I have the impression very clearly that the coalition that you belong to or do not belong to does not want to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U217	Thank you. The coalition will deal with all the problems that will happen. The coalition has no disagreement on this issue: we have to deal with pensions and taxation. In order for us to be able to talk specifically on this subject, about this draft law, a separate debate is needed, not a debate on the state budget. I can't imagine how far we can go with these historical topics and other drafts. To be honest, I don't want this debate to be unlimited. I take this opportunity, which has been used by many here, and I say that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not discussed this issue within this budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U218	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask first and foremost for the people of Pärnumaa. I have concerns about my friend Toomas, who has been going to the Baltic Station for several days and waiting for the train in Pärnu, but it is not leaving. Actually, it's a very serious thing, it's not funny at all. If distributed over eight years, I think the investment would have been 17 million, which is 2 million a year. That's why you didn't find the money. However, you first found tens of millions for roofing money and now you distribute 300 rows of smaller sums for a total of EUR 7.5 million. Did it ever make sense for you in the Committee on Monetary Affairs to stop sharing roof money at least on such a large scale and to keep the train line in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U220	Thank you. We haven't talked about the railroads today. All the other issues we have already discussed, and my views are exactly the same. It seems so when you look at the table, at the regional investments in previous years, and at how they were shared, that this bright, smart and nice idea of stopping regional investment will come when you are in opposition. I already told my colleague, Jürgen Ligi, or was it Tavi? If you are going to form and form a government in three months' time, and you are proposing to abolish the roofing money, then it is also the right time to make the next budget clear. In my opinion, this is an unambiguous answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U221	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U222	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! Your attitude towards morality and discipline would actually like to express in Russian a few words that end with an i. But you lied when you told me that this offer of penthouse money had passed the Ministry of Finance, that there were rules. No, it's not! You have not even tried to impose these rules, unlike the previous government. You've been to the Riigikogu. Did you not remember at that time that we, in our time, ruled out self-related expenditure, ruled out an increase in operating costs, ruled out the dispersal of very small amounts, and, in the case of investments, called for consultations with the Ministry of Speciality to avoid giving money to dead objects? Didn't you have anything to do with it? He always says it's been before.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U223	Was that a question? I do remember that the introduction of a smaller amount, a thousand or two thousand, should be stopped, so that there should be a minimum rate, unfortunately not everything else. Are you saying that in the case of one minister, the Ministry of Finance will process these data in the same way and in the case of another minister in the same way? I know that, Mr Jürgen, that all these data go not only through the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but also through the Ministry of Finance. And I'm sure everything that's up and down there is going to be done. We can clarify this at the next meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. When we get together, we'll talk about it and then we'll try to pass it on to the hall. Let's remember that, shall we?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U224	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U225	Thank you. Good Mikhail! I remember when the Centre Party was in opposition and you were in charge of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we were very often talking about how abnormal it is that the state budget is as it is opaque and completely confused as mush and cabbages. At the moment, the Centre Party is in power, you are the chairman of the Monetary Commission, and the budget is worse than it was before: without professional education it is practically impossible to understand. Do you really think the current situation is normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U226	Thank you, Henn! I totally agree with you, and we've been talking about this. And we have already talked about this in this Chamber today, too, I don't know if you heard it or not. The whole problem is that the accrual-based budget is incomprehensible, and it is done by some professionals who have an accounting education. As I understand it, we would like to see a cash-based state budget, and I am still of the same opinion. Only that I know that it takes something bigger than the opinion of one committee to change the situation, not to mention the opinion of one of the members of this committee, even if it is the chairman of the committee. If my work continues here in the Riigikogu, I know exactly what these things are I'd like to pick up. And the second form of the state budget that has been telling us for several years is one of the objectives of the National Audit Office. But right now, for example, I don't know if that's even possible in practice. After all, in the last ten years, everything has been done to make the state budget as complex as possible. I don't know if it's possible to go back to the uniform that used to be. So basically, I agree with you, and I haven't changed my mind. Except I don't have the right to tell you that the state budget will have to look different tomorrow and say what it will do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U227	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U228	Thank you. Very respectable waitress! The government coalition's leading party, the Centre Party, loves to talk at every turn about how things have gotten better. It seems to me, by looking at the number of roofies, that things have gotten worse. If last year the Riigikogu was enough to cover 4 million euros, the problems have now increased and a total of 7.3 million euros is needed. And even that is not all: there was an additional EUR 25 to 30 million from the Government of the Republic. Have things really deteriorated so much over the past few years under the leadership of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U229	There is no correlation, and there is no correlation. In 2016, the decision was taken in 2015 with a regional investment of 6.5 million. Is it about the fact that in 2016, the stories went completely crazy under the leadership of the Reform Party? In particular, it amounted to EUR 6170000 in 2015 and EUR 6 million in 2014. If you follow your logic, the situation was slightly better in 2013, because then there were 7.5 million regional investments, or more than this year. After that the amount of regional investment fell, then again continued to grow. So that's just wrong logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U230	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U231	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you about the little thing. It seems to me that the picture is quite clear in the big things, as has been said here before: higher taxation of pensioners does not co-operate; excise money goes to Latvia; education in Estonian does not gain money, even though you are in favour of it in words. I read here as a 30-year-old man in Õismägi, for example, a row of 190, which is marked "Habersti." I'm reading that the reviving elements are being placed in the courtyards. First of all, let me ask you this: do you want to define what makes Haaberst people nervous? I am undoubtedly delighted with all my friends and fellow citizens, but I ask what was chosen according to the principle of these courtyards and why, for example, other courtyards, I think of houses in 16 parts of the city, lost the elements of encouragement. Maybe you can answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U232	No, I can't. I did not make this amendment. Perhaps a colleague sitting next to you will be better able to answer you because he asked about this issue in the Commission. He was very interested in the elements of encouragement, and he received some answers. To tell you the truth, I can't exactly answer you right now, so if I'm wrong in just one word, then you're gonna make complaints to me. I say once again that members of the Riigikogu have different priorities for communicating with people and organisations. For example, I will address directly the City Government of Narva and ask what are the most important repairs they will see next year and what was excluded from the city's draft budget. I'm getting this list, and after that, I'm going to do as much as I can to cover these regional investments: six or seven kindergartens. That's how it goes. The way other members of the Riigikogu do is their deep personal business. I think it should stay that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U233	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U234	Thank you. Dear rapporteur, since you are going to report on the debate in the committee there, I did not, in fact, ask for your personal assessment of what previous governments did in the same way or in a different way in previous times. In a hurry to help you, I can tell you that the sums you plan to distribute using various tricks are different from those that have been distributed in the past. But it doesn't even matter now. I asked you about the train path of Pärnu in Tallinn whether these people were your priority or not. I will say this again: it would have taken EUR 2 million a year to make this investment. You set up 7.5 million euros in different places, some 30 million euros in the past. Did it not really come to a debate in your committee that we find it in 17 million eight years and let the people of Eidapere ride the train peacefully?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U235	Thank you. You know, if such an amendment had been tabled, i.e. 17.5 million for eight years, or 2 million a year, we would certainly have discussed it. But for some reason, these people of Pärnu did not come to your mind until today, not when it was time for the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U236	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U237	Thank you. Dear waitress, However, we assumed that Pärnu's people would come to mind for Minister Kadri Samson. When the last train left Pärnu, he found some more festive places in Pärnu County, instead of explaining the reasons why such a decision was made. My second question is, in fact, about the same formula of how you divide these roofies. Do the people of Pärnumaa have to feel inferior in any way, or have the coalition ambassadors of Pärnumaa done such poor or poor work in the Riigikogu? If I base the work done by Postimees, Pärnumaa will receive 279000 euros from the roofing money. As a comparison, Järva and Viljandi land of the same size will receive EUR 695000, not to mention South-East Estonia, which will receive EUR 1.3 million. I never say anyone gets a lot. I never said that. The question is why Pärnumaa receives so little.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U238	Thank you, Thomas! There are people in this Chamber, no matter which group they sit in, whom I sincerely respect simply because they are the kind of people they are. I respect you, too. You're a self-made man. But why are you asking a question that is clearly provocative? You realize I'm from East Estonia, I'm not from West Estonia. Maybe I could remind you of the airport. If Kadri Simson were standing here, he'd definitely remember his five, ten, or 15 more objects that have gone there. What do you want me to talk about Pärnumaa like my constituency, so I know what's going on? You realize that's not possible. You know what I mean! You're not the kind of goddamn politician who doesn't care how to twist his hand, and yet you ask that question. Yes, of course I'll ask Kadri. Yeah, I'll take a look at it, of course. How do we make known to the people what has been done for Pärnumaa and Pärnu during the activities of this government? I'm sure these numbers are 7 and 8 digits. Now let's think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U239	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U240	Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The draft State Budget Act provides that the proportion of R &amp; D expenditure to GDP will remain at 0.81% in the coming year, although according to the national budget strategy, these expenditures will be increased to 1% of GDP. My question is whether R &amp; D is not a priority for the current coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U241	Thank you. The priority is not just about money. Yeah, when we talk about the state budget, it seems that way. But how much can be separated, and how these decisions are taken, we have already spoken in this Chamber today. Yes, I understand perfectly well that I can't be good to everyone at once. This budget will fully implement some of the objectives, not in the way it should be. This is also the case with the financing of research. But these are our objective options.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U242	Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mikhail Stalnukhin! No further questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Andres Herkel, please, on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, before I explain why the Free Party Group will not support the draft state budget for the coming year, I have a few procedural remarks relating to the rules on which we are working or to the practices that are not the best. First of all, it is rather strange to see, at the third reading of the state budget, a remark behind some of the amendments, that it was, according to section 125 (5) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. We cannot vote on proposals that have not been supported by the Government of the Republic and the Commission. We all understand, or at least those who have been in the Riigikogu longer will understand, that in their time such a limit was introduced because in some years the second reading of the state budget lasted nights and days, as ten-minute breaks were taken before the vote. In my opinion, this ban does not decorate our procedure at all. It would be a good thing if we could vote on all the amendments in the Chamber and we had an agreement on mutual understanding or respect that endless night sessions would not be held. The second point concerns the concentration of 'roof money', or regional investment, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as one of the amendments. The Free Party Group has acted somewhat differently in this regard. We have already tabled these proposals before the second reading. As a general proposal, we submitted our requests for a third reading. This is perhaps the only time that the opposition's proposals to change the state budget have been noted to be partially respected. Thanks for that. But it would certainly be much more honest with all these investments if they had the sign of a party and perhaps even of a particular MP. I see that the chairman of the committee has not insisted on staying in the Chamber for the speeches of the political groups, but before he pointed out that there were no names on these lines. Everything is general, anonymous. I think anonymity is bad in itself for these investments. It is also bad that the members of the Riigikogu are not equal in their case. Now for the reasons why the Free Party Group has decided not to support this state budget. One reason I just label it once more is that the state budget is not adequately readable. And this is something that the Riigikogu as a whole can oppose, simply requiring a budget to be presented in a different, clearer form. But even more serious reasons, of course, relate to the content of the budget. This is clearly the pre-election budget. Yeah, it gives little gifts to its constituents. It has been in history before, and it will probably be in the future. But the greater evil is that the budget lacks a clear focus and a clear objective, trying to meet all needs. In fact, we are living in pretty good times: the revenue from the state budget is nice, this government is lucky. But there is a general rule: in such cases, the effort is made to try to invest in the future, be it in research and development, be it in education, be it to find measures to ensure that growth continues in the future. We do not find all this in this budget. And that is the main reason why we have decided not to support this state budget. There are also minor reasons why we want to create an institute of state law, the purpose of which we do not understand. Well, there are certainly more and more of these minor reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U244	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please, for the Reform Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U245	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Congratulations, majority of the Riigikogu! You are now referred to as "legal thieves" at the level of editorials, you might say, "legislative, but early. " I'd look at it more broadly. I propose 'own benefit' and 'irregularity' as the keywords of this budget. I think on Monday I heard from all three coalition parties about the line that '17 years in power and look, your government and your minister'. If it is as if none of you have been with us in the coalition and shared responsibility and built this country, as these lines indicated, then good. I am talking about the rules that Estonia has established and for which this country has been more honest than that of the last two years. First of all, we set ourselves the budget rules that forced the rulers to leave the country in order. Living beyond force was forbidden, and when the bad times needed to be taken from the reserve, the good times had to be set aside. It's the other way around. The first thing you did was make selfish budget rules, take reserves, and say you heated the economy precisely at the best times that the horizon has now seen. Secondly, of course, economic laws. It's about how you got the economy going in this way, but it's also a violation of economic laws. Hugely foolish, especially when it was said at a time when there were signs of overheating everywhere and there was no justification for overspending the country. The most popular set of rules concerns the offers of political roofing money, which are also the most widely spoken about. It is still not clear, at least Mikhail Stalnukhin has not understood that more than 30 million euros are being distributed here outside all kinds of competitions, all kinds of public procurements, rankings, development plans, queues, cost-benefit analyses. These divisions often run counter to development plans: one hand is done with one hand, the other with the other. In doing so, the personal and party affairs are massively driven, the personal, the party, the municipalities and the state's wallets are confused. We're in power, we can give money to whatever it takes, of course. This is very different from what we were able to introduce over a decade. The political provision of roofing money was also within some limits then, but we actually stood for the rejection of the allocation of money to our own, for nothing to be shared to cover operating costs, was consulted with the Ministry of Industry so that nothing would be built dead. And the sums were also kept within courtesy; the money was not thrown by a thousand euros, as if paying for the vote at every door. The examples were very dirty, some were finally out, we worked with them. What is currently being done for more than 30 million euros, I will give you an example. We've got over 200 million re-networking investments, but suddenly a random school gets a million. The number of children there is shrinking, the school is probably scheduled for closure, but it's like she's being woken up, leaving those schools where the state invests with its own hand and where more children are needed to keep them going. Or any municipality gets a kindergarten. There's no program to develop kindergartens, it's just decided that we're gonna build you a kindergarten because the mayor said that the old was in a bad place, it was trouble to go there. Somehow it has not been analysed why this municipality or what are the problems. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U246	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U247	Any municipality would receive EUR 100000 or perhaps a larger amount to build a swimming pool. He will find out about this from the Riigikogu. Or the city will know he's suddenly building playgrounds. The Fatherland gives EUR 1300000 to the new foundations in essence. We haven't set up new national foundations in years. No justification has been given for this plan. The leader of his Saaremaa region receives 5,000, his member of the board of the Jõgeva region 7,000, and the former mayor of Jõgeva gets 5,000, by the way. A member of the Sots, one of the candidates in Harjumaa, receives 5,000, one of the members receives 5,000, the other receives 10,000, one of the members receives 7,000. It's public finances now! The party's come, the mob's sharing a pile of money! There's no explanation, and there's no way the Ministry of Finance can explain what these things are. The Centre Party finances Tallinn, of course, the area that needs help, the poorest, no doubt! - EUR 100000. Loksa gets 70000, the money is, of course, Narva and Haapsalu. What for? For the renovation of municipal buildings! Where is the national programme that says that municipal buildings must be renovated from Tallinn? Why are they the ones who are most in need? Of course, the March Sults Club gets the money. Savisaare Jõgeva Hospital gets some kind of dough, although there's no justification. The Heimar Leng Society receives EUR 50000, the Conference of the History of the Centre Party thousands of euros outside all competitions and applications and outside all queues and logic. There is no message of structural reforms in the budget. There is nothing to be delightful about more precise spending; there is nothing to say that soon we will run out of euro money, or rather less, and some sort of exit or exit strategy should be presented. The Reform Party will vote against this draft, including its cluster amendment. We would like to support, but we cannot technically increase the financing of research and development activities, the transition to education in Estonian, these proposals have been made, as well as the suspension of border trade, the additional financing of local roads, the abolition of additional taxation on pensions, the increase of individual pensioners' allowance and the acceleration of border construction. These are understandable matters of national importance; these sums would not go into the pockets of any of us; they would have been made for the benefit of society, not for the sake of their own interests. Perhaps you're proud of such editorials, then go on! I hope that the next Riigikogu will be able to restore some good practices and introduce new ones, and that you will all learn about the majority of the Riigikogu to be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U248	Thank you. Priit Sibul on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U249	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The question of praise or curse is that. And I think there is a reason to look at both, depending on the context, at the end of today's budget. I'd look at the budget a little bit wider, I wouldn't stop at a few nuances. When I ask whose face this budget is, I think, like last year, that it is the face of the current state of Estonian society, of our entrepreneurs, of the world economy, of politics, but also of the decisions and will of politicians. It is designed with the aim of helping the people of Estonia to improve their lives in the best way. Of course, you can't talk about everything, but I'll mark some of the things that matter to us. Public finances are in good shape: the 2019 budget is structurally balanced and nominally in surplus of 0.5%. This 0.5% is EUR 133 million. There was a serious and passionate debate both in the Commission and in this Chamber whether, now that interest is low, we should borrow and invest because inflation eats reserves or, on the contrary, we should collect reserves in good times. In the opinion of the Chair of the Board, both positions are correct and the dispute is pointless. It is a question of political choices and objectives. But next year's budget is good news for both entrepreneurs and the people of Estonia. This message is that no new taxes will be introduced, no tax increases will be made. I recall that the increases in legalised excise duties on alcohol by 2019 and 2020 will be avoided. The Fatherland would have wanted more changes in alcohol excise duties. We would have gone down the road to reducing excise duties, but this is unfortunately the coalition agreement now, which of course does not mean that it will not be possible to make these changes in the future. It is also true that, unlike the Reform Party, we did not see that a reduction in alcohol duty rates could increase the receipts. Nor has it been seen by many analysts. The overall tax burden will be the same for next year, well below the EU average, with 3.6% foreseen for next year. The general government debt burden will decrease both due to economic growth and the repayment of loans taken in the past. In 2019 the debt ratio will fall from 8.2% to 7.4% of GDP and will reach 5.4% by 2022. It is the low credit burden that will enable us to survive more difficult times in the future than the previous crisis ♪ we remember well the state we were in during the previous crisis. In some areas, difficult times are ahead, while in others, difficult times are already ahead. The lack of teachers, the age structure, the low popularity of the profession of teachers, these are problems that need to be tackled in order to alleviate them. One measure is raising teachers' salaries. In general education schools it will grow in the coming year with a minimum of EUR 1250 and an average estimated salary of EUR 1500. There is an additional EUR 10 million in the budget for this purpose. It is also of little importance that local authorities receive EUR 15 million in extra money to try to pay kindergarten teachers more or less the same amount as teachers. Local authorities are being encouraged to raise these salaries. The minimum fee for cultural workers will also be EUR 1250 from next year instead of the current EUR 1150. In 2015, the minimum fee was EUR 731 which means that over four years the increase would be over 70%. The increase concerns cultural workers with higher education who are paid from the Ministry of Culture's budget. Songmatat Gustav Ernesaks on the 110th anniversary of his birth, or today, it is appropriate to recall that our culture remains in synergy with family, educational and cultural policies. If there is an Estonian school, Estonian choral music and culture will live more widely. There is, however, stability in these policies, in addition to twitching. While a broad agreement on peace and future priorities in the field of education still needs to be sought, it has been working in the field of defence for years. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U250	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U251	Defence costs will be the highest in the years of independence in absolute terms in the coming year: 585 million, estimated at 2.16% of GDP. In 2019, the state will move the average wage of the active troops by 30% above the average wage in Estonia and will continue to maintain this level. The equipment and weaponry of the Defence Forces and the Defence League will be improved. In the area of internal security, the wages of both rescuers and police officers are rising. In recent years' budget talks, I have consistently shared concerns about the increase in social and health expenditure, regardless of whether the Head of Government has been on the right or on the left. The trend is one-way and clearly worrying. A separate issue is family allowances and child allowances, which have always been an extremely important issue for Fatherland. Next year, the amount of children's benefits will increase by EUR 15 million. From the third child of the family, it was proposed by the Fatherland that family benefits would increase considerably, and this year it has already been legalised. But you can't stop there. As a new initiative, the proposal of Isamaa with the support of the 2019 budget is designed to establish an Estonian family foundation, which aims to ensure the survival and development of our people, to protect family values, to address demographic challenges and to finance research, including international research, and also to monitor and support developments related to migration policy. This is an important area, see that one of the most important areas for the development of our country and our people. Although not all are ideal, this budget supports the ability and opportunities of our people to better organise their lives, and the Isamaa Group supports the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U252	Thank you, Priit Onion! Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U253	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, During these years, during the term of my term of office, when I have been here, it has become more difficult to understand the budget every year. And that, of course, is not by accident. The budget transcript, what is being spent on and how it is being spent, is going to be more and more under the government's great secret. The members of the Riigikogu simply have to look at some number lines that are being shown to us in the interests of propaganda. It is exactly the same in this budget. The unprecedented achievement of this budget compared to previous years is, of course, the nature, the audacity and the amounts of political interest groups that, of course, are at the forefront of parliamentary parties and, among them, government parties at the forefront. When the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs says that we have received, I do not know, a couple of interesting e-mails asking for money, and we will put them all into the budget. This budget, in my opinion, cannot be sustainable, I say so in such a polite way. What is the main message of this budget? The main message is that this budget was first bought out by a coalition party, the Fatherland, who argued against the migration agreement. Yes, Fatherland was given the opportunity to vote against the Marrakesh Treaty in this hall, which has exhausted the issue. The NPOs and various initiatives related to the Fatherland or the Fatherland are one of the most funded groups of this budget and it is perfectly understandable that they will not vote against this budget or in any way jeopardise its adoption. It is, of course, frustrating that it is also linked to the fact that they have the finance minister's portfolio, which means that they have the opportunity to plant dozens of small projects in each ministry's administration, which are not even written out in this budget that we receive. There's real detective work to do to find these things. So with this budget, with all our money, taxpayers' money, they're just gonna buy a coalition party. At the same time, of course, other coalition parties are not shy either. They're also buying a different kind of shopping, it's buying voters' votes. The voters' own money buys votes from them in the forthcoming Riigikogu elections. It may not be corruption in the criminal sense of the word, but it is the most authentic political corruption. Our current government is introducing corrupt behaviour both within the government and in communicating with voters at a level that I think is unprecedented in Estonia. And it's just disgusting and appalling. It is also true that this year it will probably be extremely nice to sit in the government and make a budget. As good as we have now, and as is predicted for next year, there has not been at least ten or a fewteen years and will not come again anytime soon. Such an increase in the budget of the next governments will certainly not have to be expected. But instead of either lowering taxes, which could be the main goal of making Estonia's business environment more competitive, or increasing the purchasing power of Estonian people in such a way that they are left with more money, they simply collect all the money that they can take and spread it to various interest groups to buy their support before the elections. This, too, is a very bad political practice and, of course, it is not sustainable either. Now we see the maturity of the voters either they fall for it or they do not approve. In any case, we do not approve of this and will vote against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U254	Thank you, Martin Helme! Kalvi Tough, please, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U255	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, In the run-up to the third reading of the State Budget Act, the most frequently mentioned topics are those that have been the decisions of the last moments of the Riigikogu's Finance Committee. There is nothing to do, the controversy is most concerned with Amendment 23, the table of roofing money, or regional investment. It was interesting to hear Martin talk. As far as I know, the EKRE Group has always been one way or the other. I also know personally how good EKRE people in Rõuge, my little hometown, helped to do one thing or another. I don't think they're gonna get any more votes about this. In this way, perhaps no other person is hoping to receive more votes immediately by placing one or another object in the budget. However, we are still making the budget for next year and it is not right to focus only on Amendment 23. For the Socialists, this budget is of paramount importance. The 2019 budget reflects in a way the mid-term perspective of the reform of family allowances. This reform was launched by us Social Democrats in 2014. Dear friends, four years ago the first and second child's allowance was EUR 19 per month, starting from January next year, it will be EUR 60. In addition, last summer, the support of a family of three or more children rose by EUR 200. With the support of the state, more children have found their way to an education of interest. Estonia has become a country where many children do not mean falling into poverty. We are close to a very big goal, which is that no child should grow up in need or even worse, in poverty. Our second major goal is to have more children born into Estonian families. As a father of three, I know how difficult it is to provide children with good education and education. It's too early to cheer, but you can already see the first positive trends. There is reason to argue that the budget for the coming year, like the last four national budgets, is clearly in the service of children and families with children. Estonia is an excellent country for raising children, but I am sure that it will always be better. Future governments and government coalitions will undoubtedly have to make an effort and will certainly make an effort to make Estonia an even more child-friendly country. Remembering the budgeting of previous years, there have also been demonstrations in front of this house. A number of people from Estonia have come here to draw attention to one or another budgetary issue that makes the heart ache. For example, farmers have done so. Let us be aware that in the budget for the coming year, the money has been allocated to the maximum amount of subsidies that our country can pay under the European common agricultural policy. Looking to the EKRE Group, I note that the CAP will generate over EUR 2 billion in support of our rural people. Another major issue has been the pay of teachers. Still, in one way or another, it has been complained that teachers' pay is too low. Dear friends, next year the teacher's average salary will rise to 1500 euros. The rise in wages is, in our opinion, the second major cornerstone of the budget. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U256	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U257	So far, the rise in the pay of the rescuers has been in the background, and now they are facing a decent raise. The budget also has a clear regional policy dimension. This will help to promote life in smaller cities and rural areas. The income base of local governments will increase by around 5%, amounting to almost EUR 2.2 billion. Of course, I am personally pleased that the South East Estonia programme will be launched next year, amounting to EUR 800000. Dear friends, Social Democrats support the 2019 state budget. It is not yet a welfare state budget, but we are approaching the budget of the Nordic welfare state by making society more caring and prosperous. A feature of the budget is human and human well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U258	Thank you, Kalvi Tough! On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U259	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, That's the 14th state budget I'm in this hall for adoption. And there have always been speeches at third reading during the negotiations, which are clearly distributed into pro and contra speeches. In fact, pro-voices have always been different. Today, Priit and Kalvi had a very comprehensive overview that this budget could be considered as a good document. Contra calls have always been uniform. And if you took out a few speeches that sounded 15 years ago, I think that if you changed some of the names, you wouldn't distinguish them at all from today's speeches. But they've already sounded, both pro- and contra-voices, and what I have to say is thank you. First of all, I want to thank all the people who are doing this big job. If you have spent two years in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you will finally understand how much depends on the human factor, how important it is for the advisers of the Ministry of Finance who are involved, how important it is for these places to have professionals. That is exactly what I can say about the staff of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and I would like to thank all its members here. I've seen them in this house at 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekdays when most people leave here at 5:00 a.m., and I've seen them on holiday. Thanks to these people, we'll get a proper document. I would also like to thank all those who took part in the discussions, not only the ambassadors of the coalition parties, but also those of the opposition. While first ones need to be thanked for their support and sense of unity, others sometimes ask very interesting questions that make everyone wiser. And, of course, thank you to those who are asking questions in this Chamber, which is why I am going to learn more specifically. After working in a vocational school for ten years, I can still see that when you interact with a larger group, things sometimes happen that offer a new experience. This budget is very peaceful, I think it is the main word for its labelling. It is not accompanied by any reforms, and it is best that there are no major reforms and that we can develop peacefully. This state budget is indeed a high-quality product, and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party supports it. I invite you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U260	Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. There are also 23 amendments to the draft; we will start reviewing them. The first amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. The proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Amendment 2 is the position put forward by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the lead committee: to be disregarded. The proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Amendment 3 is the position put forward by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the lead committee: to be disregarded. The proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Amendment 4 is the position put forward by the Estonian Reform Party Group, which is the position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. It is not to be voted on either. Amendment 5 is the position put forward by the Estonian Reform Party Group, which is the position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. This amendment is also not to be voted on. Amendment 6 is the position put forward by the Estonian Reform Party Group, which is the position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 7 is the position put forward by the Estonian Reform Party Group, which is the position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. The proposal shall also not be subject to the vote. Amendment 8 is the position put forward by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 9 is the position put forward by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U261	Thank you. I understand this is a very expensive conference. Our proposal is to put this proposal to a vote and to vote against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U262	All right, let's start preparing the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. There were 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, against 40. The amendment has been accepted. Amendment 10 tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 11, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 12, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, position of the commission: disregard. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 13 from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, position of the commission: disregard. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 14 from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, position of the commission: disregard. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 15 from the Estonian Free Party Group, decision of the commission: disregard. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 16, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 17 is the position proposed by the Estonian Free Party Group, which is the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. The proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Amendment 18 is a proposal from the Estonian Reform Party Group, proposed by the commission: not to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 19 is the position put forward by the Estonian Reform Party, by the lead committee: not to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 20, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, lead committee: disregard. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 21 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 22 from the Estonian Free Party Group, position of the commission: take part in the consideration. Amendment 23... Is your question about the previous proposal, Mr. Ligi? Amendment 23 is the decision of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which is the decision of the lead committee: to take full account. Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U263	Thank you. I ask for this proposal to be voted and opposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U264	We shall begin the preparation of the vote on the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 23 tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. Please take a stand and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, 51 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the amendment, against 47. The amendment has been taken into account. We have examined 23 amendments. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 700 on the draft. Let's start preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft State Budget Act 2019 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, 52 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the state budget, against 46 members of the Riigikogu. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U265	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the 15th item on today's agenda, which is the second reading of draft 744 of the Riigikogu decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or other international military operation led by that Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. Mr Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U266	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 5 November and the first reading took place on 21 November. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 3 December at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee also discussed the draft at its meeting on 4 December and 10 December before submitting it to second reading. At its meeting on 4 December, the Commission approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum at its meeting on 10 December. As in the last two years, this bill allows the Estonian Defence Forces to contribute with their unit to an international military operation, which is related to NATO, its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations for the first time. The above can be summarised as a preparedness mandate and its use, in particular when it comes to a critical need, such as a time-critical situation where a rapid deployment of the Defence Forces unit is required. Now to procedural decisions. At its meeting on 4 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 12 December. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U267	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. Looks like you don't have any questions. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled and the proposal of the commission is the final vote on the draft 744. Let's start preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to this by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations' draft 744. Please take a stand and vote. 65 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the decision, against 3. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U268	We go to item No 16, which is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the mission of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Iraq" submitted by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Anneli Otil, member of the National Defence Committee, to come to the chair for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U269	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 5 November. The first reading took place on 21 November. The deadline for submitting amendments, which was 3 December at 5.15 p.m., did not include any proposals from outside the Steering Committee. The Committee on National Defence tabled an amendment harmonising the wording of the draft with that of other drafts with similar content. The amendment replaced "30 days' by "one month' in point 2 of the draft text. NATO's mission in Iraq is more broadly directed at the threat to the alliance from the south. Estonia's participation is in line with our security and foreign policy interests. Participation in the mission in Iraq gives Estonia the opportunity to contribute to NATO's collective security and support partner countries in the fight against terrorism. In addition, cooperation with the various partner countries will ensure closer strategic links with the countries that are important for Estonia. Now for procedural decisions. At its meeting on 4 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to put the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda by 12 December. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U270	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. There is also an amendment to the draft decision tabled by the Committee on National Defence. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. The commission proposes a final vote on the draft 748. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu presented by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the mission of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Iraq' 748. Please take a stand and vote. There are 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U271	We go to item 17 - extending the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria - by the Government of the Republic, second reading (739 OE). Mr Kerdi, Member of the National Defence Commission, would you like to present a speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U272	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 5 November. The first reading took place on 21 November. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 3 December at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee did not make any linguistic clarification of the draft, so the text of the draft at second reading is identical to the text at first reading. The second reading was approved by consensus by the National Defence Committee at its meeting on 4 December. At its meeting on 10 December, the Commission adopted by consensus the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft. The UNTSO mission is a purely UN so-called 'blue helmet observation mission'. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. Estonia is actively participating in UN missions, which are in line with our foreign and security policy decision to increase visibility in the UN in order to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the years 2020 and 2021. At its meeting on 4 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 December. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U273	Honourable waitress Johannes Kert! No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft and the proposal of the commission is a final vote. Let's start preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the Estonian state's international obligations in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria', as presented by the Government of the Republic, draft 739. Please take a stand and vote. There were 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U274	We go to agenda item 18, which is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation's reaction forces (738 OE). Please speak to Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U275	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic submitted the draft to the National Defence Commission, including on 5 November. The first reading took place on 21 November. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 3 December at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 4 December and 10 December. At its meeting on 4 December, the Commission approved by consensus the text of the second reading and, at its meeting on 10 December, the explanatory memorandum to the second reading. On the advice of the language editor, the Commission made some improvements to the draft, which relate to the reprehensibility of words. In addition, the Commission deleted NATO from the draft as a language improvement, after the name North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, as it will be named NATO Response Force in the same sentence. The Commission also made a technical specification of the standard on the advice of the language editor, aligning the draft text with § 34 of the National Defence Act. These amendments are underlined in the text of the second reading of the draft. The officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author of the draft act supported these Commission clarifications. As a reminder, the NATO Response Force's response force is an important support for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, if necessary. The participation of the NRF is therefore also directly related to the security of Estonia. NATO response teams may be used for a collective defence operation under the NATO Treaty as set out in Chapters VI and VII of the United Nations Charter. There are 40,000 armed forces in the NATO Response Force. The NRF is comprised of a rapid reaction unit of 5,000 troops in 24 to 48-hour readiness, the so-called Very High Railways Joint Task Force, or a battle group of special units with air and/or naval contingent reinforced as required. The procedural decisions were as follows: At its meeting on 4 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 12 December. In addition, the committee decided by consensus to propose to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U276	Dear waitress Ants Laaneots! No questions for you. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 738 OE. Let's start preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the response forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' 738. Please take a stand and vote. There were 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U277	We will go to the 19th item, which is the second reading of the draft Inherent Resolve (747 OE) of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the international military operation. Mr. Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission, please present the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U278	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic submitted the draft to the National Defence Commission, including on 5 November. Its first reading took place on 21 November. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 3 December at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 4 and 10 December. I recall that the US-led operation Inherent Resolve was launched on 15 June 2014. Estonia will participate in this mission on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu as of August 2016 when the six-member Estonian training team of the Al-Anbari Governorate of Iraq began its service in the composition of the Danish contingent. Their main task is military training of Iraqi security forces. In addition, as of September 2016, one of the Estonian senior officers in Baghdad will serve in a multinational military-strategic team led by the US, who will advise the Iraqi ministries and security forces. The procedural decisions were as follows: At its meeting on 4 December, the Committee on National Defence decided by consensus to put the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda by 12 December, i.e. today. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U279	Dear waitress Ants Laaneots, there are no questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft and the proposal of the lead committee is the final vote on the draft 747. Let's start preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the international military operation Inherent Resolve' draft 747. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U280	The 20th item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan (743 OE). Ms Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U281	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 5 November this year. The first reading was completed on 21 November. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 3 December at 5.15 p.m. However, on the recommendation of the language editor, the National Defence Committee made a linguistic specification in paragraph 1, replacing the abbreviation 'a' with 'year' because the abbreviation is not used in the laws and decisions of the Riigikogu. In addition, word learning was changed and the Commission deleted the word 'in composition'. The author of the draft act supported these clarifications. The active troops of the Defence Forces would continue to contribute to the NATO training and advisory mission on the basis of the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion, the most important aim of which is to teach the Afghan security forces. To this end, the draft mandates will be issued to up to 46 active troops. In order to ensure that Afghanistan does not become a pillar of international terrorism again, the support of the Allied forces on the ground to the Afghan security forces is essential. Estonia shall carry out its allied responsibilities with regard to its participation in the mission. At its meeting on 4 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to put the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda by 12 December, i.e. today. In addition, the committee decided, with one vote, to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U282	Dear Mrs. Mikko! No questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 743. Let's start preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan' 743. Please take a stand and vote. There were 64 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U283	We will go to item 21 - extending the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the second reading of the draft of the United Nations Peacebuilding Mission in Mali (746 OE) submitted by the Government of the Republic. Ms Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U284	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 5 November. The first reading took place on 21 November. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 3 December at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 4 and 10 December. At its meeting on 4 December, the Committee on National Defence, with one vote, approved the text of the draft at second reading, while at its meeting on 10 December its explanatory statement. According to paragraph 1 of the draft, we will continue to contribute to the European Union Training Mission in Mali in 2019 with Defence Training Instructors, whose task is to provide military training to the Malian units. We will also contribute to the process of planning and advising the Malian units with staff officers. As a country of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the Union's common security and defence policy. Mali's mission is the most important mission of the European Union to which 21 Member States of the European Union contribute. According to paragraph 2 of the draft, Estonia will continue to participate in the UN Peacebuilding Mission in Mali, MINUSMA. Estonia will contribute to MINUSMA next year with three staff officers and, if necessary, the draft under discussion will allow the number of active troops to be increased to 10. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in the crisis area. The main focus is building the state and supporting the population and society. In addition, participation in UN missions increases Estonia's visibility in the UN and is expected to contribute to Estonia's efforts to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2020 and 2021. At its meeting on 4 December, the Committee on National Defence unanimously decided to put the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda by 12 December. In addition, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt the Riigikogu as a decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U285	Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U286	Thank you. Mr President, Commissioner, last year you made such a strange claim that our defence forces are a sexist organisation, because there are mainly men there. Now, if you present this mission here to us, don't you think this mission is too sexist from your point of view? Perhaps you should make striped lists and approach it from the point of view of gender neutrality.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U287	I thank you for an exceptionally good question, but it was not discussed in the Commission, and as a Commission rapporteur, I am not authorised to express my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U288	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U289	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm reading this bill, and I don't think I can read one thing, so maybe you can help. The third point is 'The maximum amount set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Decision for members of the Defence Forces may be increased during the rotation period to 40 members of the Defence Forces... 'If I count points 1 and 2, I don't count how many militias there are now. Which number can be increased to 40?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U290	One minute, some people are leaving the mission, and others can go on the mission, which is why the number is increasing. It's always been that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U291	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U292	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! On a lot of missions, the fighters have been in a mood to keep our poppers up. Would it also be possible to visit entertainment artists here to keep their motivation, bring them black bread and the sprat in Tallinn? And is this possibility for members of the Riigikogu when they make a music collective?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U293	Thank you very much. This is not a question of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U294	Aivar Chef, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U295	I missed an answer, or I couldn't hear it. How many members of the Defence Forces are currently on this mission, whose term is extended and whose staff can be increased to 40 members of the Defence Forces? I'm not reading it out of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U296	It's up to 10 plus 10 and if there's a change, it's up to 10 plus 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U297	Good waitress, there are no more questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft decision. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 746. Let's start preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali (746 OE). Please take a stand and vote. There were 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U298	We go to agenda item 22, which is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state (740 OE), submitted by the Government of the Republic. Madis Milling, member of the National Defence Commission, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U299	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was also held on 21 November. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 3 December, including 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 4 December and 10 December. At its meeting on 4 December, the Commission adopted by consensus the text of the draft second reading, while at its meeting on 10 December, the explanatory memorandum to the draft second reading. On the advice of the language editor, the Commission made some linguistic corrections to the draft, which concerned the depreciation of words. The Commission also made a technical specification of the standard on the advice of the language editor, aligning the draft text with § 34 of the National Defence Act. These amendments are underlined in the text of the second reading of the draft. Officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author of the draft act supported the clarifications made by the National Defence Commission. This draft confirms Estonia's readiness to contribute to the possible operation of Joint Expeditionary Force in 2019 with up to 24 defence forces, i.e. an anti-explosive team, a strategic communication team, a medical team, an air-fire leader, a mine-tower team and a support element. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 4 December, the Committee on National Defence decided by consensus to put the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda for today. The committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U300	Dear Madis Milling, there are no questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft decision. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 740. Let's start preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Army', 740. Please take a stand and vote. There were 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the decision, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U301	We will go to the 23rd item, which is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term for the use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the French military operation Barkhane Malis (741 OE). I would like a speech chair from Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft also took place on 21 November. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 3 December at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee did not make any linguistic corrections to this draft either. The Commission discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 4 December and 10 December. At these meetings, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft text and explanatory memorandum at second reading. Now for the mission. Operation Barkhane was launched on August 1, 2014. Operation Barkhane in the Sahel region is France's largest foreign military operation: its staff is 4 500 fighters. Barkhane supports the governments of the countries of the region in stabilising the situation. The Republic of Mali shall be the main focus of the entire operation. The strategic objective of the operation is to contain the global and, above all, European threats from the region, namely terrorism and mass immigration. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 4 December, the Committee on National Defence supported by consensus the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda for the second reading today. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U303	Dear Madis Milling, there are no questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft decision. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 741. Let's start preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali', draft 741. Please take a stand and vote. There are 59 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft decision, against 1, with 0 abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U304	We go to item No 24, which is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces by the Government of the Republic in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon (742 OE). Please speak to Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U305	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was also read for the first time in plenary, including on 21 November. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 3 December at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 4 and 10 December. The Commission made one linguistic clarification throughout the draft. In point 1 of the draft act, the abbreviation 'a' was replaced by 'year' because such abbreviation is not used in the laws and decisions of the Riigikogu. In addition, at point 1 of the draft, the Commission, on the recommendation of the language editor, made some further linguistic corrections relating to the depreciation of the words and deleted the word 'in composition'. These clarifications are also underlined in the text of the second reading of the draft. The officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author of the draft act supported these clarifications of the National Defence Commission and the draft text and explanatory memorandum were approved by consensus by the National Defence Committee. A few words about the mission. The UNIFIL mission is a United Nations classic blue helmet mission. Estonia, as a Member State of the United Nations, contributes to security and stability in UNIFIL's operational area. Estonia's contribution and visibility to UN missions will enable us to pursue the role of non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the years 2020 and 2021. Finally, procedural decisions. At its meeting on 4 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for today. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U306	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U307	Good manager and waitress! Late in the evening of November 21, the Minister for Defence said of this speaker: 'In a paradoxical way, the most victims are the UN mission, which, logically, could be best protected thanks to the UN's blue flag and its noble mandate. ' I'm asking you what's really behind this. This is a United Nations mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U308	Thank you. This question was not discussed by the Commission, but I can kindly answer. The Secretary of Defense generalized. He did not talk about this particular UN mission in Lebanon. He spoke of missions that have been taking place in many different places under the auspices of the United Nations for a very long time. It is simple: UN peacekeepers have the strictest rules of battle, i.e. rules of engagement. They still have to think a lot of times before, get in touch with the higher authorities, ask permission to fire back. It is a unique feature of the UN's blue helmets that they have the strictest rules for the use of weapons if they want to respond with fire when they are attacked.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U309	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U310	Thank you. Good waitress, first of all let me take this opportunity to welcome those members of the Defence Forces who are now in Mali. It turned out that they, too, were following our debate, and they were watching very closely how the course of this debate had gone. That was, indeed, the last item on the agenda that has already been decided. But now the question of the current item, the Lebanon mission. Now that the Estonian Defence Forces are going back on this mission, is it going to be the same as before in the joint battalion of the Irish and Finns, or has it changed in the meantime? I have a serious personal interest in this because I once opened a sauna with the Finnish Prime Minister there, and I would like to know if this sauna is still used by Estonians.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U311	Thank you. Lebanon's mission is now changing. If we had an infantry team there before, who really, as you said, was part of the Irish-Finnish battalion, then now our infantry team is leaving Lebanon and there are only three staff officers in Lebanon. The reason is simple: Finland has decided to complete its mission in the region and to engage more in rapid response teams. Our infantry team was very involved specifically with the Finns, we used their armored vehicles and their firearms, and since the Finns decided to end this mission, we will also end it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U312	Thank you, Madis Milling! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled to draft 742. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon', draft 742. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, no one was against or impartial. The decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U313	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions and other laws (750 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Dmitri Dmitriev will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Finance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U314	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The deadline for amending the draft amendments, which was 29 November, was not submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. No further proposals were received from the stakeholders. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 4 December. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, 16 amendments to the draft have been drawn up. I will now give a good summary of the content of each amendment. Amendment 1 states that the law sets out an indicative list of circumstances in which the reputation of the driver is not considered to be impeccable. Such circumstances relate in particular to the legality of the person's business activities, but also to the way in which the person complies with the general rules. The same amendment replaces the part of the sentence "his related company' in the second sentence of Paragraph 48 (2) following the Commission's discussion with the sentence "his company'. Therefore, the assessment of the existence of a reputation of integrity takes into account the circumstances relating to the person himself and to the company he manages or controls. The same amendment also clarifies the wording relating to the time of the driver's duties, and the word'sufficient' is replaced by 'to the extent necessary'. Amendment 2 deletes the words 'inter alia' and 'personal characteristics' from the text of § 48 (21) supplementing the Credit Institutions Act. The members of the Commission considered that the management body of credit institutions did not have the personal characteristics, but had the competence and professional background to ensure diversity. Amendment 3 specifies that the 'other company' to be merged must be a subsidiary company of the bank. The draft only allows for a merger aimed at transferring the core activities, such as the IT development necessary for the Bank's core business, to the credit institution. This also precludes the transfer of risks arising from the operation of a non-bank to a credit institution. Amendment 4 clarifies the composition of the information to be included in the application for a merger authorisation. The information submitted to the Financial Supervision Authority must show that the business activities transferred upon merger do not include activities that the bank may not engage in. Amendment 5 clarifies the grounds for refusal of authorisation. Amendment 6 clarifies the stages of compliance as reflected in Directive 2014/49/EC as amended by Directive 2017/2399/EC. Amendments Nos 8 and 12 complement the draft amendments to the Credit Institutions Act and the implementing provision supplementing the amendments to the Securities and Markets Act, which gives banks and investment firms time to organise their activities in accordance with the rules laid down in the draft. The draft will give them six months to make these same possible changes. Amendment 9 repeals § 472 of the Credit Institutions Act on the implementation of the joint decision procedure for internal models. Amendment 10 introduces as a new requirement the obligation for the Guarantee Fund to notify, by 31 March each year, the amount of covered deposits in the European Banking Authority as at 31 December of the year preceding the submission and the amount of liquid working funds in the Deposit Guarantee Sectoral Fund as at 31 December of the preceding year. Amendments 11, 13 and 14 relate to amendment of § 65 (1) of the Credit Institutions Act. Amendment 15 deletes as an implementing provision the paragraph of the Act, according to which the same draft would have entered into force on 1 January 2019, but in view of the time frame of the draft procedure, such a time limit may prove to be somewhat restrictive, thus excluding a specific date of entry into force from the draft and the draft would enter into force in general. The last amendment, Amendment 16, is on supplementing the technical remark on the regulation. The procedural decisions of the commission shall be as follows: The Finance Committee decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 12 December, i.e. today, and to propose that the second reading be stopped. I must say that this Monday, the Members of the Commission raised the question whether the provision of the same draft law, which contains the definition of the 'content elements' of an impeccable reputation, does not run counter to the Constitution. We proposed that we wait for the draft to be concluded by the end of the second reading if the lack of clarity remains on this issue. The Commission took the matter back on the agenda and discussed it on Tuesday 11 December. As explained by the Ministry of Finance, the reputation of integrity in assessing the suitability of the directors of credit institutions has been an important criterion under the long-standing credit institution law. At the level of the law, the concept of impeccable reputation has not been defined, and supervision practice has been very important in furnishing it. This explanation was also set out in Amendment 1 to the draft, which I mentioned earlier. The Commission also received further information on the common guidelines for the assessment of the reputation of the head of the European Banking Authority, the rights of the Financial Supervision Authority in the process of assessing the reputation of the manager, as well as the case-law in this respect. In conclusion, the Commission considered it possible to deal with this issue in the future and maintained its decision, i.e. the proposal to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U315	Questions for the waitress. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U316	Thank you. Good waitress! It is very logical that the members of the management bodies of individual credit institutions have an impeccable reputation. But I am concerned about how this impeccable reputation has been formulated in the draft. This was also the subject of very serious discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In fact, it says that there is no reputation if the person has been convicted of an offence in clear terms! just, accused or suspected of an offence or otherwise related to an offence. First of all, the suspect and accused have so far not been equal to the convicted person in Estonia's practice. And secondly, if doubt has fallen away later, then, according to the current wording, man still has a temple attached. But even worse, if he is otherwise involved in an offence, for example as a victim, the bill does not have a reputation. How do you view it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U317	Thank you for your question. In fact, I noted that this really could be the most problematic part of the bill. We discussed this both at first reading and at second reading, both in the Commission and in this Chamber. Previously, questions were asked about this subject. The wording of this amendment raised doubts, but we have listened to the explanation of the representative of the Ministry of Finance, based on supervisory practice, the Code of Conduct of the Financial Supervision Authority, as well as the case-law, which we have retained. Perhaps in the future this will receive more attention and, if necessary, will be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U318	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U319	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm gonna do the exact same line a little bit. The question is, we have a presumption of innocence. No one's guilty until he's convicted. People could be suspects. It is very easy to become a suspect in Estonia. Suspecting should not be a sin unless it is followed by a conviction. In this sense, the draft still goes very, very far from the current legal practice, and I do not understand where such an idea has come from, that, completely separate from the general legal approach, a provision in the Credit Institutions Act that actually condemns people before they get to court before they are even prosecuted. Should we not interrupt the second reading and look at the wording again? We're doing an unconstitutional thing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U320	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. I would like to stress once again that the concept of impeccable reputation is not new. It was also used in the current Credit Institutions Act. At the same time, we are also following the European Union Directive 2013/36/EU, the so-called Banking Directive, which also provides that the appointment of bank managers must take into account the principle of sound reputation. More specifically, as I said, we debated for quite a while in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the representatives of all the political groups had doubts and their opinions on this matter. As you can see, Amendment 1 amends the original version of the proposed draft law, but, ultimately, we have not been able to provide a better solution at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U321	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U322	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There is another interesting issue in this very first amendment, and it concerns the time needed to carry out driving tasks. In short, there is a requirement that the driver has to have the necessary time, and someone appreciates it. This someone is the Financial Inspectorate. That's the kind of thing I'm asking. It's really 24 hours a day, but we know that people work in very different intensity. It's not a piece of work. But let's compare, for example, with Asia's intensity for work, who and how accurately appreciates whether or not the time spent on driving is necessary? And during what period will it be observed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U323	Thank you for your question. We did not discuss this separately in the Commission. But I am looking at the explanatory memorandum now, and I believe that, under the directive, membership in councils is limited. In my opinion, the maximum was four councils where a person can belong at the same time. And if a person is also on the board, I think he can only be a member of two other councils. I wouldn't be wasting my colleagues' time looking for that information right now. This does not concern the amendments tabled on the draft, and I ask the Commission official to send you these time limits and to explain others.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U324	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U325	Thank you. I'm looking around here right now, and I can see on my right hand, and on several other sides, I can see a number of people who have been suspected of something in life and who have lost those suspicions. I don't feel like I have a moral right to point a finger at these people. The legal system of the Republic of Estonia is such that, for whatever reason, suspicions have arisen, but if they have fallen away, the person is not guilty. And that, in my opinion, should be the basis for that. According to this bill, however, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has taken the view that the good reputation of these people has been ruined forever. Well, I don't know, if it's not against the Constitution, then what is it? Once again, I ask you, don't you see a cling to the Constitution here? Secondly, the problem, in particular, concerns people involved in so-called other forms of criminal proceedings. Such ones have also witnessed or suffered. In the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, should their reputation also be permanently violated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U326	Good colleague! At the last meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where we discussed all these amendments, we really had doubts that perhaps this was contrary to the Constitution. We have discussed this briefly and listened to the views of all the members of the political groups who took part in the meeting. Representatives of the Reform Party were also present and could table amendments. But yes, we did not get any better wording in place of the text we are about to have. I would like to stress once again that 'unpretentious reputation' and its evaluation have been in use before, also in the previous version. And we have both the case law and the experience of the Financial Supervision Authority of how they do this work. Whether this wording is best or not, I am not personally able to appreciate it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U327	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U328	First of all, dear waitress, you may not know, but maybe you're deliberately speaking wrong. 'Infamous reputation' has been a concept in the law, but it has not been explained in any way. Now suddenly there is an explanation that has been extremely unsuccessful. I'm not as sensitive as Taavi's outfit. I'm gonna ask you straight. You've also been a suspect, do you think you should spend your life walking around with some sort of guilt burden, even though nothing was really proven and the conviction didn't come? You're a pure boy in the meaning of the law, and in our eyes, too. And you should be. But within the meaning of this law, your reputation is ruined, you don't have a perfect reputation, you shouldn't be working for a credit institution. And it's going to go a little further, and maybe this principle is going to be passed into some other law, so you can't do anything at all. Do you really think that's right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U329	Thank you. I will say, in addition to what I have already said on this board, that we have been discussing this wording for a long time. There was no better proposal from either the Reform Party Group or other political groups. And the Commission maintained that the wording proposed by the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Committee on Monetary Affairs, defines the 'unblemished reputation' or its absence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U330	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U331	Thank you. Good waitress, did it ever make sense to ask the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or to assist the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U332	Thank you, my good colleague. Indeed, on Monday, we discussed the question of whether we are taking this draft out of the agenda of the current week, taking more time and trying to clarify more about the wording of this point. However, at the meeting on Tuesday, it seemed that it was clear on this point that there was no need to take extra time to turn to other committees. I can't comment on that much more or better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U333	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U334	Thank you. I'll come back to the point where we define 'absolute reputation'. It is indeed worded in a very amazing way. I understand that this part of impeccable reputation, too, has been taken over from the directives. If so, in the directives to be transposed, has this 'unwiden reputation' been defined in any way? How is our wording and the wording of the directive consistent? Is this an accurate translation, or have we added something to it? How did such a pair of words arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U335	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. In the Directive, the concept of 'inexplicable reputation' is considered to be even wider. We removed all the personal characteristics, as the Commission found that although the directive refers to this, we do not have to take into account their personal characteristics as far as their professional competence is concerned when choosing bank managers. Yes, let us say that it is regulated at the level of the directive. And this concept is already before the Credit Institutions Act, it has been used in the past by the Financial Supervision Authority in carrying out its operations, it is nothing new. However, this formulation really caused us a very long controversy in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U336	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U337	Thank you. Good waitress! Was it also discussed in the Commission that our practice often tends to be such that the inspectors start reading the law literally, not with the idea in mind? If this point is to be read literally, as colleagues have already pointed out, it will be absurd. Was it mentioned that there was such a danger?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U338	Thank you for your question. Even before the first reading, many Members in the Commission felt that the transposition of this directive needed careful reflection. In the view of the Members of the Commission, the wording of some paragraphs or paragraphs did not make much sense. Consequently, some amendments have also been proposed in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. But, in coming back to the question we started on, Jürgen Ligi, representing the Group of the Reform Party, was very active in the last Commission session on the concept of 'unblemished reputation', with whom we discussed this issue. However, since there were no other proposals, the Commission maintained its proposal to conclude the second reading. The wording remained as it is now presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U339	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations! Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U340	Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber! This draft and this amendment, which we have talked about a lot here and asked about it, are not political in any way. This is a purely legal question as to whether the Riigikogu should enforce laws that seemingly and directly conflict with the Constitution and actually contradict the most important legal principles that have prevailed in this country so far. One of them is the presumption of innocence. This same expression, however, has been used, but it has not been furnished in the past. Now the officials of the Ministry of Finance have furnished it, based on the practice used in Estonia or something else, but they have overlooked the legal system in force in Estonia. In this way, the concept of a reputation cannot be furnished because it deprives us of a large number of people of the possibility of running a credit institution from almost all people. And that is not the purpose of the law. With regard to the proposals for amending this draft and the fact that the speaker here referred to the absence of any better proposals in the Commission, the Commission was in such a more or less stressful situation, finding that no one on the ground could even come up with a better wording. Maybe the great hall discovered it a little too late, but it's not hopelessly too late. Actually, we could do one of two. We can vote on this amendment and come back to the subject later. In that case, the term 'unpretentious reputation' remains in force in the law, as it has been so far, and it is not wrongly furnished. But if we want to decorate it, let's think this through and find the correct wording. We can cancel the second reading. It's Christmas ahead and the New Year's coming, we have time to invent it. Among the amendments is the proposal to enforce the law in general. It would not enter into force on 1 January 2019, as originally foreseen. So there's no stress. If the law enters into force on 3 March 2019, it will be fine, but let it enter into force correctly, not so that the next government will have to and will have to deal with the first thing to do in order to remove provisions that are incompatible with the Constitution from one law. There's a joke in here, by the way. If no one has noticed, when explaining the amendments, there is also a requirement that there are different categories of persons on the board of the bank and that the person to be elected must fit in with the structure. What does it mean that individuals are oriented differently? You could translate people with 'different orientations'. What do we still want with the board of directors of a credit institution? So here's a bunch of prescriptive kids, and, well, to put it mildly, stupid enough to take some time off. Let's take a break! We will come back to the draft at the beginning of the new year, having formulated it better. We've got plenty of competence here. We will, as Maris Lauri suggested, take the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the aid of our own judicial department. We can do this. We can make a better law if it's a bit of a dirty document that's in front of us right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U341	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U342	Good Chairman! Good colleagues, including you, who are in your offices and, of course, listen to me, and the people who are watching us through the internship, asking, "Johnhaidii, am I really the man who is going to talk about morality here?" In order to speak as it was at the beginning, I will begin with the fact that Mr Tõniste was here defending this bill and, for some reason, the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not like the words 'inexplicable reputation'. I came in that time and took the floor without saying a few things. For example, it may be difficult to understand the term 'unblemished reputation' in some political parties who have a lot of accusations around them and where several people are accused, even though they are in some important position. But I suggested we use the word'reputation'. I thought the storm had subsided, but I heard that the President of the Reform Party Group started working on it as well as on it. All right, Stalnukhin didn't realize that "unpretentious" was a concept that couldn't be measured. Jürgen just took that word to get attention. You have today raised the question of why the original beautiful Estonian word pair, the 'unblemished reputation' that we all understand, has become 'unblemished reputation'. Men, you all have a life of cool and colorful life. And if your reputation is damaged, then you have the opportunity and right to go to court to defend your good reputation. We have not defined what protection of good repute is. If we're trying so hard to fill this "inexpensive reputation," will we take time off next time and find the content for the word pair 'cold weather'? We don't know the background system. What do you mean, cold weather?? How cold is the weather? And compared to any other weather? Or when are you a good kid? What do you mean, "good kid"? Does that mean you're studying for fours? But why aren't you a child of praise? I like the fish mug! If this is such an urgent question that the words 'inexplicable reputation' need to be furnished, then perhaps this topic could be discussed in the humor show 'Speech and soul full'. Let 'em go! Let 'em go! All wise philologists come together and find its contents. This issue of 'unblemished reputation' has, in my opinion, been on the agenda for a very long time. I don't want to say right now that those of you who complain that you don't understand it, the shoe is squeezing this place. There are things we can't measure, but what we're all really sensing. And if it happens that somewhere in the world, the shoe starts squeezing, and someone's pointing the finger at you is that you don't have a reputation, then it's possible to go to court because of the damage to your honor and reputation. It's as simple as that. So one man couldn't define the word "inexplicable," and now it's the word "reputation." Yes, you're referring to the presumption of innocence, but we also know that once the sentence has been handed down, there will be an offence going out for several years. I've lived a very colorful life. But I've been following the principle of doing what you do, but try to live so that at least you have a reputation. I'm telling you honestly, I haven't gotten a reputation yet, but I have a reputation, and I still have a reputation. So survive this "unpretentious reputation"! 'Infamous reputation', I don't think it's okay for us Estonians. And if we don't, we don't have a passport, and maybe we'll start twisting it back. In general, I think that we all understand what we mean by this couple of words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U343	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U344	Ladies and gentlemen, Good chairman of the sitting! I didn't have a plan to come here to talk, but the previous speaker, I don't know if he hasn't read the draft bill or what, but he doesn't know that this bill is precisely about trying to fill in the concept of 'inexplicable reputation' or 'inexplicable reputation'. And with that wording, it's gone to the woods. It is as if there is nothing more to say, but the uncertainty that came out of the Commission's rapporteur's speech indicated that the Commission's debate was obviously, I cannot say, poorly managed or poorly thought out. If there was a problem, I am truly amazed that no solution was sought outside the Commission's office. Let us be honest, the members of the Riigikogu are not all lawyers. They don't have to be able to create laws at all times. But there are strong legal professionals among us who could have come to help. They may not really exist in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And there's a special department at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu that should help us with this kind of work. So in that sense, it was extremely strange to hear that the Committee on Monetary Affairs was discussing and discussing, that it was not quite right, but if it didn't occur to itself, then it didn't go anywhere to ask for advice. It's a little bit weird for me, it's not a small thing, it's a little bigger a problem. I agree that if this goes wrong, we'll put the brake on so that what happened in this hall today doesn't happen. The draft came to third reading and then his vote was dropped because at the last moment it turned out that it was a mess that there was a contradiction with the Constitution. Now the exact same thing can happen. Do we have to let this happen? We could be so smart we wouldn't. And I also appeal to the coalition, pointing out that if this bill goes on now, you will, frankly, make another blah for yourself. You've already done one thing today, and now you want to do another. I support the proposal to stop reading the draft and find the good wording to be sought. I think it's possible to find it in a week, maybe next week. And really, if we don't make it and it takes longer, then we'll discuss the outcome at the first session of the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U345	There is no further wish for negotiations. However, honourable Riigikogu, we have a duty to examine the amendments first. There are 16, they are all presented by the commission and, of course, they are also included: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. Dear Riigikogu, before we go to the next proposal, I will take the chairman's break five minutes and ask the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to come under this window. The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U346	Mr Riigikogu, I have a procedural proposal for the Chairman of the Monetary Committee to come to the Chairman for a moment. I am simply asking if the Commission needs more time. The chairman of the committee is not going to tell me if he needs more time. Mr Riigikogu, the break taken by the President in order for the Commission to meet was over. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft 750. We have been able to suspend the second reading of the draft proposal from the Reform Party Group. That is what we need to vote on. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the vote the proposal of the Reform Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft 750. Please take a stand and vote. 22 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal, 36 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 750 second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U347	Honourable Riigikogu! The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending labour market services and grants initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws (641 SE). The Social Affairs Committee waitress is Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U348	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take stock of the 641 discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs after the first reading. The deadline for amendments to this draft was 19 September. The members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not submit proposals, but opinions were submitted by the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Labour Inspectorate, the TALO and the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Commission discussed the draft at three meetings: 23 October, 4 and 10 December. Proposals and opinions were heard at the meeting on 23 October. Attorney General of the Employment Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Õie Jõgiste, Legal Adviser Susanna Jurs, Deputy Director General of the Labour Inspectorate Meeli Miidla-Vanatalu, Chairman of the Management Board of TALO Ago Tuuling, Member of the Management Board of the Unemployment Insurance Fund Pille Liima and Head of Legal Department Ira Songisepp. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs introduced an amendment which, according to the explanatory memorandum, 'avoids the decision to terminate the payment of the disability allowance in the event of the death of a person and the notification thereof to a deceased person'. I can say in advance that the Commission later supported this proposal. A number of amendments were tabled by the Unemployment Insurance Fund and presented at the meeting by Ms Liima. As the proposals of the unemployment fund were also discussed at the next meetings, I will introduce them and the discussions that have taken place a little later. The representative of the Labour Inspectorate pointed out that the amendment to the law was intended to confer supervisory powers on the Labour Inspectorate instead of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but budget money was not foreseen for this purpose. If a new type of supervision is directed to the Labour Inspectorate, the inspection must be given...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U349	Honourable Riigikogu! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The 750 debate on the draft is closed. Second reading is over. We are discussing Bill 641, a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Maris Lauri, will make a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U350	Thank you! When a new type of supervision is directed to the Labour Inspectorate, the inspectorate must have additional budgetary resources to carry out this monitoring. Monitoring is not only about control, but also about informing and raising awareness, for which there is no budget money in the Labour Inspectorate today. The Labour Inspectorate estimates that the creation of a new post will require around EUR 36000 per year. A representative of the Ministry commented that the Ministry would calculate an additional cost of EUR 30 000, which would have to be recovered from the Labour Inspectorate's own resources. If supervision is to take place and it is clear that expenditure will increase, then the Labour Inspectorate's budget will have to be reviewed. To the question of how the Labour Inspectorate manages to find new workers, the representative of the inspectorate replied that this was not easy. At present, the gross salary of the labour inspector-lawyer is 1200 euros per month and the required competence is so wide that, if extended, people will not survive. So it's hard to find people. The Ministry of Social Affairs still maintained that no additional funding was needed, and so it remained that they would not give more money. The representative of the TALO explained that he supported the proposals of the unemployment fund as a member of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and asked the Commission to analyse them and, if necessary, ask for further information. It also supported the proposal of the Labour Inspectorate and recommends that human resources and sources of cover be found as required. It should be noted that the issue of covering the costs of the legislative amendment at the Labour Inspectorate was not related to the legislative changes. So the Commission could do nothing but listen to the concerns and say that perhaps things would go as the Ministry of Social Affairs hopes. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs were present at the debate on 4 December and the debate on the amendments, which concerned the unemployment fund in particular, continued. At this meeting on 4 December, it was decided to support some of the proposals of the unemployment fund and not others. The proposals of the Unemployment Insurance Fund were of a number of kinds, and I will first mention those that found support. They concerned the way in which and the time limits for service of the various decisions. The Commission formulated these amendments and they were subsequently approved. In this way, the individual's job search plan can be subsequently served against the signature of the person in the local unemployment fund department, but it can also be delivered electronically. At present, this is possible through the unemployment fund's information system, but also by e-mail. In the case of notification of a decision granting compensation on account of the employer's insolvency, the possibility was added that this could also be done by sending a simple letter by post. At present, only electronic notification is possible. The reason is that, from May of this year, it is also possible for an employee or a foreign insolvency practitioner to apply for compensation because of the employer's insolvency and they may not always have an e-mail address. The time limits for service of decisions, which have so far been between three and five days, are deleted as the administrative procedure is governed by the law in a purposeful, efficient, as easily and as quickly as possible. There is therefore no further need to say how quickly this should be done, these days should not be inside. And the practice of the unemployment fund has been that over 90% of the decisions are delivered immediately by e-mail or posted the next day at the latest. The unemployment fund also wanted to be able to waive the restrictions in force, according to which the unemployment fund can also agree to work with the unemployment fund's office by telephone or by e-employment fund instead of consulting the unemployed. This will lead to greater flexibility. However, the Ministry did not agree with this approach, and there was some debate about it. The Ministry of Social Affairs gave examples of this in the Netherlands and it was finally decided not to formulate it as an amendment. The Unemployment Insurance Fund made a number of amendments concerning the amendment of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act. Most of them were not supported. With regard to these proposals, there was a situation several times when the Ministry said that it was still being dealt with and therefore it was not appropriate to move on. In some cases there were quite high costs and, in some cases, there was concern that the change might have consequences in areas where it was not intended in itself. However, the Commission supported an amendment which would continue to provide a person with a disability allowance if he had submitted an application within the deadline and the procedure was extended for whatever reason, such as the need for access to health data. On 4 December, the Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 12 December, to propose that the second reading be closed, to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, by 19 December and then to hold a final vote. On 10 December the vote on the amendments took place and all the amendments were accepted by consensus. On 10 December, the draft procedural documents were also approved and submitted to the Riigikogu plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U351	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U352	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You spoke of this Labour Inspectorate's concern that there are no competent people, no money, additional tasks. How many people now need to be added to the challenge?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U353	The Unemployment Insurance Fund estimates that more than one person would be needed and that they also estimate EUR 36000 per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U354	No further questions. Thank you, Maris Lauri! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Six amendments to the draft 641 have been tabled, all from the lead committee. Let's look at them: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth and the sixth. The second reading of Bill 641 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U355	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs is Mr Heimar Lenk, Member of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U356	This law was discussed by the Rural Affairs Committee at its meeting, attended by Urmas Kruuse, Aivar Surva, Heimar Lenk, Inara Luigas, Siret Kotka-Repinski, advisor Merle Kruusimägi and adviser-secretarial director Ülle Särgava. Pille Tammemägi, Deputy Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Margus Proses, Chief Specialist of the Health and Well-being Office of the same department, and Katrin Tuula, Counsellor of the Legal Department, as well as representatives of interest groups, Marianna Školnaja, Head of the Institute of Chemistry and Biotechnology, Tallinn University of Technology and Mario Plaas, Head of the Test Animal Centre at the University of Tartu were also present. The meeting was chaired by Aivar Kokk, he led the debate. Marianna Školnaja said that the Tallinn University of Technology has studied the draft and agrees with all the points of the draft. More or less the same was said by Mario Plaas, representative of the University of Tartu. Two amendments were also examined. The essence of this law is that animals that have, say, a lower threshold of pain should be used as experimental animals, who would feel less stress and suffer better. We basically have mice and rats. This was one of the improvements that was highlighted, and the other was that unjustified repetition of animal testing must be avoided. While one institute is already carrying out animal testing, the others should not carry out parallel tests, but should see if the results of the other institute can be used. To this end, the relevant animal testing data of the other Member States communicated to the European Commission shall also be kept up to date. There should also be a pan-European database to allow researchers to be in contact with each other and to know where something is being done in order to carry out animal testing as little as possible and as much as necessary. Basically, experiments are being carried out in the interests of human health, the development of new medicines, etc. This was the case and the amendments were accepted. The text was amended to the extent that the law would enter into force on 15 January 2019 and had to enter into force on 1 January at the beginning. This is a small overview of the law that is necessary for humans, but also protects animals so that they may suffer less.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U357	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Heimar Lenk! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There are three amendments to draft 734, all from the lead committee and, of course, taken into account: the first, the second, the third. The second reading of Bill 734 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U358	Next on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the organisation of the rural and agricultural market initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Initiator waitress, Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U359	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I remember 20 years ago. In this very hall, it was at the VI session of the VIII composition in 1997; the Riigikogu instructed the Government of the Republic to initiate a draft law which provides for the protection of soil. The Riigikogu stated: "The Muld is one of the most important natural resources in Estonia, which has ensured the living and economic activity of Estonian people for a very long time, and it will probably remain for such a very long time. He is therefore, historically and economically, one of the most important resources for us, which, unfortunately, is currently without real protection. The soil is protected by [----] Estonian SSR land code with about nine paragraphs [----]. But they do not specifically lay down the responsibility of anyone, but rather declare goodwill. It is certainly important to talk about protecting soil as a natural resource. [---] the use of very fertile arable land continues to be cultivated in order to prevent or prevent economic measures from transforming them into residential or other targeted land, because then this resource has become irreversibly lost because we know that the soil is alive. " The same composition of the Riigikogu was also faced with the issue of legitimisation of soil protection in January 1999 when a member of the Riigikogu at session IX said: '... At the second attempt, I try to put an end to an abnormal situation where the deadline for the initiation of the draft law on soil protection was 1 December 1998. The draft is not yet in Riigikogu proceedings. ' Fortunately, there is no Estonian SSR land code now, but there is no legal protection in the agricultural land of our 100-year-old Estonian state and its soil. Over the last 10 to 15 years, many scientists and institutions have given the world alarming signals of a possible crisis involving the destruction of soil as an ecosystem at the hands of man. Published in 2007 in the book 'Muld. The destruction of civilizations' says a professor of geomorphology at the University of Washington, Seattle, America: "The silent crisis of the degradation of the soil represents one of the most frightening crises of this century. The thin layer that covers the earth is, and will remain, a source of all life on earth as well as a critical natural resource for each country. ' In its resolution of 30 March 2017, the European Parliament called on Member States to take better account of the protection and management of agricultural land and land transactions in their national measures. At the conference 'Sustainable food production: the perspective of soils' held during the Estonian Presidency of the European Union, it was found that Member States should protect the soil from irreversible alternative uses and misuse, and there is still a need to raise awareness of the importance of soils. In the 100th year of the Estonian state, there is a bill protecting our valuable soil, or valuable agricultural land, prepared at the Ministry of Rural Affairs for at least six years on your desk. What are we going to do with this? We will achieve that we will continue to have the basic ecological, yet non-renewable, natural, resource for food production. We ourselves, but also more and more of the food table of the nations of other countries, will in future be dependent on countries with a fertile soil as well as water. Thus, by this law, which the Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu, we help to ensure the food security of our country, in the official language of the country, by means of legal measures. The preparation of the draft has not been an easy and smooth task since stakeholders have different interests, often linked in one way or another to land use, in particular to its construction. I would stress that it is impossible to protect the soil in any other, alternative way than to restrict its construction, because as a result of the construction the soil is destroyed and the destruction is destroyed, it cannot be completely reversed. As I said earlier, the draft has been drawn up for a long time, many discussions and discussions have been conducted. Nothing was overlooked and the proposals were taken into account as much as possible. Only those attitudes that did not support the objective of the draft, i.e. the protection of the soil of valuable agricultural land, were discarded. As a result of all this, the regulations set out in the draft are relatively detailed and perhaps complex. In fact, it is simple: if we keep valuable agricultural land clean from buildings and bush as peasants, no one will have any problems in the light of this bill. However, if we are to build on this value, it is possible, but not easy, if necessary. The chapter on valuable agricultural land in the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act contains a total of 15 sections, of which only two provide for prohibitions and restrictions. Mainly, the draft contains acceptable rules, i.e. regulations, which, on condition and where a valuable agricultural land can be built on a massif, unless otherwise possible or economically feasible. According to the draft, in the case of valuable agricultural land, we are talking about valuable agricultural land of national importance and valuable agricultural land of local importance. The restrictions concern both in the same way. While valuable agricultural land of national importance is determined on the basis of soil fertility, i.e. bonitety, local value agricultural land is determined by local government units by planning at their discretion and decision-making. According to the draft, valuable agricultural land of national importance is a land-for-profit land, land-for-purpose land and natural grasslands forming a uniform natural array of at least two hectares, with a weighted average bonus equal to or greater than the weighted average national agricultural areabond. In those counties where the weighted average of the agricultural land is below the national average of the bonds, the value of the agricultural land is a mass of agricultural land with a weighted average of the bonds equal to or greater than the weighted average of the bonds of that region. In order to obtain the original picture, the Centre for Agricultural Research compiled map material and based on this it made preliminary calculations. The average bonite of the country's agricultural land is assumed to be 41 points, the total value of agricultural land is around 700000 hectares, and it accounts for 63% of the total land-for-profit land, land-for-purpose land and natural grassland. The restrictions therefore cover 16% of the area of the Estonian rural area. Thus, the restrictions do not apply broadly to 84% of the area of the rural area. According to the draft, agricultural land in urban and rural areas is not considered to be valuable, with approximately 18000 hectares of agricultural land, as well as up to two hectares of valuable soil masses of approximately 30000 hectares. Also agricultural land which is not a land-for-profit country cannot be considered to be valuable for some 30,000 hectares. Massive soils with no higher than average fertility are about 430000 hectares. To conclude: without restrictions, i.e. freely can be built on more than half a million hectares of agricultural land. By doing so, I do not want to say at all that it is appropriate to build on agricultural land where the soil is not of high fertility. Not appropriate. What I want to say is that apart from valuable agricultural land, we have enough land to be built on without restrictions. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is necessary to adopt a law on valuable agricultural land. It is estimated, and according to the draft, that after we have adopted this law, it will take another year to specify and establish, in cooperation with local authorities, agricultural land masses, including valuable agricultural land. All of this is needed to ensure that valuable agricultural land can also be properly reflected in the local government's general plans, which have started and will have to be completed in no more than three years' time. I am convinced that measures for the protection of valuable agricultural land, if implemented in principle, will have an undoubtedly important impact on the preservation of soils with high fertility and thereby on the whole natural environment, its future, not to mention ensuring food security. We have the opportunity to agree and make a decision that will ensure the preservation of the valuable soil as an unrecoverable natural resource and the transformation of the mind of all of us. I will conclude with the words of President Roosevelt, which he signed in 1935 in the American Law on Soil Protection: 'Every history of the nation is written according to the attitude of the people to the soil. ' Thank you, honourable Members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U360	Questions for the initiator. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U361	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this introduction. When I read the coordination table, I noticed that local authorities have expressed their doubts, opposition and, I dare say, even reluctance on quite a number of points. Would you open up a little of this topic, whether such fears and questions are justified, or whether they have really just arisen from ignorance and perhaps also from ambiguity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U362	Dear Member of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, thank you for a very good question. The fear of local governments is that the state will come from the sidelines and now, in their place, perhaps, will somehow organise this life in the local area. But this fear is unfounded, because there is no way to get past the local government. In any case, the municipalities are taken into account, and it is certainly not a violation of ownership, as some have argued. I think the local government is a good partner for the country here. Some countries belong to the local government. Some land, valuable agricultural land, are those that belong to the state, and others are under local government. So you don't miss the local government, you have to solve it together. We are still building objects and buildings on valuable farmland. For example, in the last ten years, i.e. between 2007 and 2017, 11000 hectares of agricultural land were covered by construction in Estonia. This is a frightening order of magnitude, for it is actually possible to build on properties and areas where arable land is less valuable. Perhaps you should look around a little more and look for other solutions, because they exist. If you travel around Estonia, for example from Tallinn to Tartu, you can see that something has been established where there was previously a swamp and a bush. Or we can take Turku Street in Tartu, where there was a swamp before the prison, and now it is possible to build it there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U363	No further questions for the initiator. Thank you, Minister Tarmo Tamm! The rapporteur for the Rural Commission is Aivar Surva. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U364	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law on the amendment of the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws on 12 November inclusive. Members of the committee Urmas Kruuse, Arno Sild, Artur Talvik, Inara Luigas, Siret Kotka-Repinski and the absence of Heimar Lenk took part, chaired by the chairman of the committee Aivar Kokk. Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs, Marko Gorban, Deputy Secretary-General of Agriculture and Rural Policy of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Helve Hunt, Head Specialist of the Land Improvement and Land Use Policy Department. The minister introduced the bill. As he said in his report, it has been prepared for a long time. In Estonia, 11000 hectares have already been covered by the construction of buildings and roads. There are, of course, a lot of plans that have already been undertaken and which include more arable land, such as Rail Baltic, probably known to you, as well as the four-line road to Tartu. Exactly how large these areas are, I don't know yet. Mr Gorban said that the aim of the draft was to protect the soil of agricultural land of high cultivation value and to keep valuable land in agricultural use as much as possible, as this would guarantee the country's food security. He added that the aim was to limit the construction, afforestation and re-use of valuable agricultural land. Indeed, this bill concerns a very large part of our land, as well as many landowners. About 90,000 owners, i.e. about half of our landowners are involved. The members of the Commission were wondering how much such a restriction of ownership of property owners might occur. Inara Luigas, Member of the Commission, proposed that as this concerns property and property protection to a large extent, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu should also be consulted on the draft. Mr Gorban said that the Ministry of Justice had already been consulted, which has found that there is no contradiction with the Constitution. The Minister added that the Chancellor of Justice has signalled that if the law is adopted as such, he will turn to the Supreme Court because he considers that the law is contrary to the Constitution. The Commission discussed the further processing of the draft and decided to propose that the draft 735 be placed on the agenda of the plenary assembly on 12 December, including the appointment of Aivar Surva, member of the Rural Affairs Committee as rapporteur, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home, i.e. 2 January 2019 at 5.15 p.m. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U365	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U366	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Estonian Planners' Association has expressed its concern that the state centralises too much and intervenes in certain sections, but does not take into account the overall development of the space. Did the Commission even discuss this claim by the planners' association, or was it simply at the level of the coordination table?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U367	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the members of the Commission also wondered whether the rights of the owners of immovable property were not disproportionately restricted or whether their interests had not been harmed in any way. The same problem has, in fact, already been addressed by the members of the Bar Association of the Committee on Legal Affairs, who are equally concerned that there may be certain legal issues here. It was also said that according to our planning law, local authorities have the right to organise spatial planning in such a way that all parties are invited to debate. This allows for restrictions, even in the current situation. I believe that such questions and problems will arise in connection with this draft, and there will still be quite a lot of charm.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U368	No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu! There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 735 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 January 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U369	Next on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the External Action Service initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Initiator waitress Foreign Minister Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U370	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear members of the Riigikogu who you have stayed in this Chamber at this late hour! It certainly speaks of serious interest and concern for the future of our External Action Service. I am pleased to be here today with the draft law amending the law on the External Action Service and in connection with the amendment of other laws. The purpose of the draft is to update the law on the External Action Service, inter alia, as a result of a decision taken by the Government of the Republic on 3 November 2016, which states: 'The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the relevant ministries, will start a discussion at the beginning of 2018 in order to analyse the possibilities for amending the law and other legislation of the External Action Service, including the possibility for ministries and the State Chancellery to post persons to the EEAS without suspending the service relationship with the sending institution and to establish a basis for determining the person's salary and bonuses and salaries and bonuses. " The Ministry of Foreign Affairs discussed ways to achieve this goal. It was also considered, for example, that the External Action Service Act, as a special law, could be abandoned at all and transferred to the general regulations of the Civil Service Act when sent abroad. On the other hand, it was discussed whether a whole new text should be created, which the Riigikogu could process and adopt as a law. As a result of these discussions, you were presented with a draft law amending the law on the External Action Service and, in connection with it, with the hope that it will be adopted by the Riigikogu during the current term of office. Main objectives of the amendment of the Foreign Service Act. There are four in all: firstly, the maximum possible harmonisation of the EEAS with the general public service; secondly, the reduction of administrative burdens in the handling of long-term external missions; thirdly, the reduction of red tape in the posting of professional diplomats to external offices; fourthly, the reduction of the volume of legislation and the achievement of greater flexibility. The implementing provisions also amend the consular law and define the consular services which may be provided by the consular secretary under the guidance of the consul. Their aim is to reduce the workload of consuls for simpler technical operations, which can also be successfully carried out by the consular secretary, and to reduce the time spent on the operations of citizens and visa applicants, thus improving the service of consular customers. As you can understand, the target list is somewhat broader than the target formulated by the Government of the Republic in tunamull, 3 November. I will now speak a little bit more openly about these four main goals. Firstly, the greatest possible harmonisation of the External Action Service with the general and public service. According to this draft law, the public service law will be transferred to the pay system and the current person-specific bonuses will be abolished. From now on, the pay components of the career diploma are the basic salary and variable salary up to 20% of the annual salary within it is remuneration for additional tasks, a bonus and a performance fee. An honorary or service fee shall be retained as an additional premium. Wage levels are introduced from the level of the law into the wage guide established by the Minister and the salary guide takes account of responsibilities, the difficulty of work and the category of foreign representation. In the case of long-term departure, the basic salary shall be indexed by the coefficient of cost of living of the city in which it is located. Recruitment for external services will continue under the Civil Service Act. However, there are some differences in the general public service that are inherently necessary for the External Action Service. For example, when recruiting as a diplomat, the following additional conditions apply: Estonian citizenship, higher education and proficiency in at least two foreign languages. As an update, a person with an earlier external communication experience may be recruited on a fixed-term basis without a competition, in particular to deal quickly with cases of persona non grata, which are clearly difficult to predict. In addition, in order to secure the rotation system, the offices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' headquarters will be converted into fixed-term posts. The external service remains an open-ended service, such as the general public service. Second objective: to reduce the administrative burden on both staff and ministries in handling long-term external travel costs. If, at present, a non-tax foreign mission fee is paid in addition to the salary during work at a diplomatic mission in order to offset the extra costs associated with living abroad and the price difference between the place of consumption of the locality, this fee is part of the staff member's income in a long-term foreign mission and the cost of the mission is reimbursed on the basis of cost documents and applications, the external mission fee will continue to cover the costs of removal, accommodation and travel expenses for the long-term foreign mission and the costs of education and care for the child accompanying, with the exception of school tuition and kindergarten place fees, the latter will continue to be covered on the basis of cost documents and applications. The main and only income of a staff member in the future is his salary, which is determined on the basis of the price difference between the consumer basket of the city in which he is established, i.e. it is indexed according to the cost of living in the city in which he is established. The external mission fee shall be paid in three instalments according to the draft: one amount before the secondment to reimburse the one-off removal, travel and accommodation expenses at the beginning of the secondment, the second monthly amount to cover the accommodation costs and once a year travel expenses on leave, and the third amount at the end of the period of secondment to reimburse the removal and travel expenses from a long-term external mission. No further documentation is required for these costs; no separate claim for reimbursement is required. Health costs and educational costs for accompanying children will continue to be reimbursed on the basis of applications and cost records. The tuition fee was already mentioned in advance. In addition, it is important to mention that it is guaranteed that someone's income will not decrease while abroad and that all costs to date will continue to be covered, i.e. by comparison with the current law. Third objective: reduction of red tape in the posting of professional diplomats. The decision-making power relating to the dispatch of specialized diplomats shall be transferred to the Ministry of the dispatcher according to the draft, the secondment orders shall be formalised and the basic salary and the additional fees shall be determined by the Ministry of Dispatch. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall provide a staff member seconded by the Ministry with a job, work equipment and services for which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs pays the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the basis of the estimated cost of the job. The professional diploma shall be subject to the ministry of the dispatcher and also to the Head of the Foreign Mission in matters relating to foreign policy and the organisation of the work of the missions. Objective 4: Reducing the volume of legislation and achieving greater flexibility. Duplication of laws, the provisions on long-term foreign travel benefits and fees are repealed in the Public Service Act and replaced by a reference to the External Action Service Act, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the highest practice of long-term foreign missions, as well as competence. The regulation at law level will be reduced and the implementing acts of the External Action Service Act will set out as much as possible. As has already been said, the implementing provisions also amend the consular law. In summary, the budgetary needs. This draft will involve additional expenditure in the future. It is estimated that upon the entry into force of the draft law, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have an additional financial requirement of around 1.3 million euros per year, in particular to cover living expenses. There is a separate increase in tax expenditure, which is neutral in terms of the budget as a whole, of around EUR 2 million to cover additional taxes. The Ministry of Defence also has an estimated additional cost of around EUR 0.3 million in connection with the entry into force of the draft, plus EUR 1.4 million in tax expenditure. The remaining ministries with a significantly lower number of officials on external secondments are estimated at EUR 600000 per year, together with the total tax costs. The final co-ordination of the additional need will take place in cooperation with the ministries of the dispatcher and the Ministry of Finance in 2020/2030. In the 2009 national budgetary strategy process. The law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January 2020. Amendments to the Documents Act, the Consular Act and the Civil Status Acts Act and the Population Register Act, as well as to subsections 23 to 25 of the Bill, which simplify the provisions for appointment as an extraordinary and plenipotentiary, would enter into force in general. Implementing acts will be developed in the first half of 2019. Finally, I also say that the draft law amending the law on the External Action Service and other related acts was discussed by the Government of the Republic on 4 October. a at the meeting. The representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs then attended the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu exactly a month ago, where this bill was discussed with the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U371	Questions for the initiator. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U372	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Are there any changes coming from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the direction of Asia? If we already have a pretty strong representation in the smaller countries, there are three people in the Asian department, as far as I know, from one country to another, when we look there at the development of these countries. And the other part of the question is this: is it possible to speed up the rotation of foreign representatives to some extent, so that after younger and fresher blood should come? Young people complain that it's almost impossible to get on that carousel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U373	Thank you. As far as the Asian direction is concerned, it is not directly related to the processing or possible entry into force of this law in 2020. Of course, our External Action Service, our network of foreign representations as well as the manning or assembly of our foreign representations, are based on three important areas of work: foreign economic policy, security policy and the service of our citizens and the provision of consular services. That's all we're tracking. It is clear that needs change in time and also in foreign affairs. I am very pleased that we have been able to break the trend of narrowing the network of foreign representatives after some recession, due in particular to economic, budgetary opportunities. We have already reopened our embassy in Hungary, next year it is planned to open an embassy in the United Arab Emirates and then not an embassy, but a consulate on the west coast of the United States. Of course, our wishes and needs are greater both in Asia and in many other directions. But one of Estonia's typical factors will probably remain small in the future, which will limit our financial and, above all, our human resources. However, of course, we will review the priorities according to our economic development, the interests of entrepreneurs, but also the interests of security and the movement of Estonian citizens in the world, both now and in the future. The other half of the question was related to rotation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is indeed the kind of ministry where the employees are continuously rotational. One of the objectives of amending this law is also to guarantee our ability to rotate our diplomats even when they are employed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs headquarters. It is clear that the length of the rotation period, by creating this system, has also been carefully thought out in such a way as to ensure, however, sufficient institutional continuity, memory and competence. The quality of work can be affected if diplomats are to be rotated very quickly between external services or foreign missions, as well as between foreign missions and the main building. So I think there will be a system in which the heads of representation, ambassadors will be on an external mission in a single rotation usually for up to four years and other diplomats mostly for three years, this time may sometimes be prolonged depending on the circumstances. For example, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union called for the extension of a number of postings, namely to ensure institutional memory, continuity and smooth working arrangements. For various reasons, the rotation period often turns out to be shorter than the maximum. But sometimes it's really practical to rotate generally after an outward trip, we assume that the diplomat will occupy some positions in the main house. While people generally see such a vertical career in their career model, in a rotation system such as the External Action Service, they must be prepared to rotate and sometimes to perform their next career in a "horizontal" way. In exceptional cases, it is possible to rotate from one post to another in the future in the main building without necessarily going abroad, and also, as in practice, in certain cases, it is possible to rotate diplomacy from one foreign mission to another without having to fill any posts in the main building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U374	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, One important motivation for our diplomatic missions abroad is definitely the husband's reward. What are the amendments to the bill now leading to or complementing them? In the explanatory memorandum, I read that the starting amount for the spouse's remuneration is EUR 1000, which depends on the country to which people have been posted and is multiplied by a coefficient. So what's the difference between the coefficient and the starting amount? Or more precisely, is this starting amount and average spouse's remuneration consistent, or do the coefficients increase it? What dynamics have been in recent years, and what else can we face?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U376	Thank you. As has been said, all social guarantees for family members that exist in the current External Action Service Act will continue to exist. The overall policy has been that, when we rotate, including to foreign destinations, we encourage the integrity of the family and we see it as very positive that the family can go along with the staff member on the mission. This is not always possible, of course, for various reasons, because it brings about major changes in the daily lives of families. As has been said, we want this law as a whole to reduce the administrative burden. As far as the remuneration of spouses is concerned, the draft provides that the continuation of the qualifications of spouses and their employment must also be encouraged. As far as coefficients are concerned, as in the case of the External Action Service as a whole, we have introduced an international index, or indeed an index, used by many other countries to calculate the cost of living in the local cities. This is the coefficient multiplied by the base numbers. It is clear that a larger proportion of the capitals to which we send diplomats are somewhat more expensive than Tallinn, although not necessarily. This also determines the size of the coefficient. Certainly, between the first reading and the second reading of the draft, if the Committee on Foreign Affairs is interested in this, we can give a more detailed overview of, for example, the coefficients and indices currently available, by which these base numbers are multiplied in the case of one city or another where we have foreign representations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U377	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser! The rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs is Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U378	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, During the last year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has paid great attention to how to strengthen the overall capability of our External Action Service. One of the motives for the hearings initiated by the Commission was the long-standing desire of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to update the law on the External Action Service. This is an important draft and it needs to be seen in the broader context of Estonia's foreign policy objectives at a time when our diplomatic activity in ensuring security and international competitiveness is becoming increasingly important. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed draft amendments to the law on the External Action Service 718 including at the meeting of the Commission on 13 November, which was presented by Foreign Minister Sven Mikser, Annely Kolk, Deputy Chancellor of Legal and Consular Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Kadri Maasik, Deputy Chancellor of Administration. The comprehensive minutes of the Commission sitting are available to everyone, so allow me to address these issues on a thematic basis, which attracted the greatest attention of the Members of the Commission. As the Minister mentioned, one of the most important objectives of the draft is to reduce the administrative burden associated with long-term external missions. This is undeniably important, as the draft is expected to allow for a reduction in the number of applications and administrative acts per year of up to 2 000 documents. Given the small size of our External Action Service, the draft concerns less than a thousand people in total, it is certainly in the interest of strengthening the service itself to simplify its administration. However, it was still unclear to the members of the Commission what the administrative burden of diplomats would be when the draft came into force would be compared to the current arrangements. Another important issue related to the draft is the internal dynamics, openness and motivated competition of the External Action Service. In an increasingly globalised world, it is evident that the role of Estonian diplomats, especially in trade and economic matters, must achieve a completely new quality. Several other foreign services, much older than Estonia, are in a similar situation. For example, with the experience of the very long-term External Action Service, Britain is currently changing its system in such a way that representatives from the private sector can also become ambassadors to the higher levels of the External Action Service, in particular the country. In recognition of the traditions and principles of the career model of our External Action Service, a further examination of the draft should answer the question of whether the first request for greater openness has been achieved or whether further proposals can be made. The Commission's discussion focused further on the incomes, spouses' fees and family circles of posted persons on long-term external missions and the benefits associated with them. At this point, I would like to point out that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, including at its meeting on 8 October, has already received an overview of how the draft amendment to the law on the External Action Service will be assessed by the family association at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its chairwoman Kairi Künka. The Commission raised the question of whether changes to the draft would also result in changes in the income of posted persons. There is no corresponding implementing provision in the draft, although according to the explanatory memorandum the fees remain the same. The initiator of the draft act agreed that the draft law should be supplemented by an implementing provision according to which the guarantees provided by the law in the event of a reduction in the current salary and external mission or external service fees will also apply to the changes which will enter into force in 2020. As an entirely separate question, the question arose within the Commission as to why the draft defines only the spouse as belonging to the household of the secondee. Paragraph 67 of the current External Action Service Act provides for a spouse's remuneration, but does not provide for a life partner's or a contractual partner's remuneration. This bill also provides social guarantees to the family accompanying them in the foreign service of another country only in the event of marriage. At the same time, both the Civil Service Act and the Anti-Corruption Act present legal restrictions on working with a staff member to family members who are not married to a common household. According to the Civil Service Act, there is a partner in a relationship similar to marriage, and under the Anti-Corruption Act, a person associated with an official is considered to be a person associated with an official who is associated with a common household. A representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs noted that the Anti-Corruption Act and the Public Service Act impose economic constraints on the official. The members of the committee expressed their opinion that the matter must be dealt with further because the Law on Cohabitation has been passed in the Riigikogu and the resulting practice that a partner registered in another country will also be accepted by the Estonian state already exists. For example, as parents, same-sex persons are entered in the population register if they have a document showing that same-sex persons are entered on the child's birth certificate as parents. The payment of the spouse's remuneration was discussed in detail in the Commission. The amendment that the spouse will continue to receive remuneration at a time when he or she earns an additional income on his or her own was welcomed, but the question was raised by the fact that the spouse's remuneration would decrease by 50% if the spouse received income. Members of the Commission thought that the draft should consider what is meant by revenue. It could be added, for example, that income means employment subject to social tax or income derived from the service. Secondly, questions were raised by the 50% requirement, which was explained by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the calculation of the proportionality of the reduction in earned income and the payment of spouse's remuneration would be difficult for the Ministry and would lead to an additional administrative burden. The parental benefit rate and the system of working at the same time are managed by the Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have access to personal social tax data. In the case of the draft, it can be pointed out that, if under the law in force, the spouse of the posted person loses any spouse's remuneration in the event of simultaneous employment, the bill retains 50% of the spouse's remuneration in the case of employment. The issue of pensions was also raised in relation to the spouse's remuneration. In particular, the current External Action Service Act does not allow the simultaneous receipt of a state pension and a spouse's pension. The bill does not change this situation, but the Riigikogu adopted a draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and related to the amendment of other laws 613, which establishes a flexible pension at today's plenary session. The concept of flexible pension would also be compatible with the payment of the spouse's remuneration together with the state pension. The purpose of the marriage fee has changed in time. In the past, it was a flat-rate amount paid to a non-working spouse that could be considered as social assistance. In 2005, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on the External Action Service explained: '... the purpose of establishing the spouse's remuneration is primarily to ensure that the spouse receives a pension when he reaches pensionable age. In the case of spouses receiving a pension, this objective is met, so it would not be appropriate or legitimate to provide both the spouse's remuneration and the pension for pensioners' spouses. " Now we are no longer in this timing. The new amendments add certain elements of flexibility, such as allowing income to be earned at the time of payment, so it can be said that the spouse's remuneration is a substitute income. For example, replacement income is a parental benefit that is allowed at the same time as the spouse's allowance. The Commission found that this issue needs to be further addressed and analysed as to whether, even before a flexible old-age pension could be granted, the spouse's remuneration and the public pension could be paid at the same time. The next question during the discussion of the draft law on the External Action Service was the re-nomination of the accreditation committee as a competition committee. In the current External Action Service Act, § 80 is also a committee whose purpose is to make proposals to the Minister and Chancellor on staff matters. In the case of the Commission, it is an internal body, which there is no reason to doubt the need for it, but it is clearly unnecessary to establish it at the level of the law, as the respective committee or similar body may be formed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the basis of § 46 (6) of the Government Act. It states that the Minister may set up committees and councils with advisory authority within the scope of his ministry, assigning their functions and rules of procedure. If such a committee is still authorised by the Law of the Government of the Republic, there is no need to impose excessive regulation on the law of the External Action Service. The initiator of the draft also agreed that the regulation of the Commission could be excluded from the law of the External Action Service. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 3 December, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed draft 718 preparations for the first reading and made the following consensual procedural decisions: to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to stop the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for the amendments to 15 January 2019 at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U379	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions. It is possible for representatives of the political groups to negotiate if they so wish. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline of 15 January at 11 in 2019 for the submission of draft amendments to draft 718.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U380	First reading of the draft law on international sanctions initiated by the Government of the Republic (721 SE). Please present the speech chair to Foreign Minister Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U381	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to be before you on this occasion with the draft law on international sanctions. The current International Sanctions Act entered into force in 2010. In the meantime, the importance of sanctions as a foreign policy instrument has increased considerably over the eight years. There are more sanction regimes than there were eight years ago, and they have become more technically complex and more restrictive. Practice shows that the area of application of sanctions and appropriate monitoring is very specific and sometimes difficult to understand, both for national authorities and for undertakings that may be affected by these sanctions. The draft explanatory memorandum therefore clarifies both new and existing provisions to support the implementation of the restrictions and to refer to relevant specific laws or international law. Based on the nature and scope of the amendments, you have a new full text of the International Sanctions Act before you. The draft law on international sanctions has set four main objectives to be achieved on the basis of the new text as a whole. Firstly, the draft amends the division of competences between public authorities. The competence of the authorities implementing sanctions shall be delineated and specified in such a way as to ensure that any ministry and any agency operating under its administration ensure the implementation of an international sanction. This includes reviewing the legislation in its government area and initiating amendments in such a way as to allow international sanctions to be applied, as well as the processing of permits where the legislation imposing an international sanction allows a derogation from the restriction, and, where appropriate, informing the private sector about restrictions and providing appropriate advice. Objective 2: updating the specific regulation on the application of financial sanctions, amending the definition of financial sanctions, the range of persons with special obligations and the obligations of persons with special obligations for the application of financial sanctions. The FIU of the Police and Border Guard Board will be given greater powers to monitor the application of sanctions by extending the definition of financial sanctions. The need to extend the competence of the FIU is linked to advanced sanction regimes which currently include, in addition to the obligation to freeze the assets of persons on the list of sanctions, the prohibition of making transactions, investment restrictions, the prohibition of starting or continuing business relationships. Under current law, there is no competent authority for such restrictions to respond to private sector inquiries or to grant permissions for transactions. There is also a lack of monitoring of the application of new types of financial sanctions. This type of financial sanctions have been imposed, for example, in sanctions regimes driven by the destabilising actions of Russia in Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol. Examples include securities management services, loan and credit granting. Third objective. The bill adds more precise arrangements for imposing a sanction on the Government of the Republic. In practice and communication between institutions, it has been shown that § 7 of the current Act is inadequate and also somewhat unclear, so the regulation of imposing the sanction of the Government of the Republic is now more precise, including the rights of the subject of the sanction, the validity of the sanction of the Government of the Republic, review and also contestation of the sanction. The fourth objective is to amend the criminal record of violations of international sanctions in the Penal Code. The subjective composition of § 931 of the Penal Code is extended by removing the word 'consciously' from the description of the offence. So that's § 37 of the bill. Thus, the draft provides that violations of international sanctions are punishable by indirect and direct intent and intent. The modified subjective composition shall ensure that the penalty for violations of international sanctions is proportionate and dissuasive and shall enable investigating authorities and the prosecution to deal effectively with violations of international sanctions. According to the Department of Defence Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Tax and Customs Board and the Financial Intelligence Unit, the current penal code does not fulfil its purpose and does not allow prosecution of offenders. The situation is not in line with the obligations imposed on Estonia by international and European Union law, according to which we must ensure the effective implementation of sanctions and provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions to ensure the implementation of international sanctions. The most important cost of implementing the bill or the entry into force of the law is the extension of the competence of the FIU, the application of financial sanctions and the supervision of transactions in sanctioned goods and services. The draft substantially extends the definition of financial sanctions and, consequently, the competence of the FIU to monitor the application of financial sanctions. Additional resources in the form of additional positions are necessary due to additional tasks for the FIU and also because the draft has substantially specified and improved the tasks of persons with specific responsibilities and activities in the execution of financial sanctions, ranging from risk assessment to due diligence measures similar to the logic and structure of the AML/CFT Act. This will allow for a much more thorough monitoring of persons with special responsibilities, which is undoubtedly necessary for monitoring compliance with international financial sanctions. The FIU shall assess the need for at least four posts to be attached to the inspection service in order to achieve the necessary level of control. These additional needs are submitted by the Ministry of the Interior to the procedure of the state budget strategy for the years 2020 to 2023. The draft is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U382	The first question is asked by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U383	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question is this: what additional opportunities do the sanction provided for in § 4 of the Government of the Republic provide? And since we have three members in the Riigikogu who are banned from entering the Russian Federation, I ask whether it would be possible, on the basis of this section, to sanction the members of the Russian State Duma, such as those who have praised and rewarded the organisers of Kerch's aggression, or for some other political reason? The sanction against us is politically completely incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U384	Thank you. As regards the sanction of the Government of the Republic, the International Sanctions Act has been applied in the past in order to ensure that Estonia is subject to sanctions imposed either by the European Union or by the United Nations. This needs to be regulated in order to ensure that, for example, Estonian entrepreneurs do indeed comply with these requirements, so that we have the opportunity to monitor the enforcement of sanctions and, if necessary, to punish those who do not comply with sanctions. On the other hand, the law is needed to ensure that sanctions are subject to a phenomenon called overcompliance in English. While a very specific sanction has been imposed internationally against some countries, entrepreneurs tend to refrain from doing any business with that country, although in fact there is also the possibility of doing business in a completely legal way in certain sectors. But in fear of violating sanctions, refraining from any kind of business, or imposing any kind of restriction on yourself from violating sanctions that is not actually foreseen by the sanctioning regime. The sanction of the Government of the Republic is indeed an opportunity for Estonia to impose sanctions autonomously. It is remembered that the Riigikogu passed the law amending the obligation to leave and prohibition of entry law in such a way that it would be possible to add to the lists of those who have been banned from entering the Republic of Estonia, including people whose presence in Estonia may not constitute a direct security threat to Estonia, but for whom there is reason to believe that they have committed, for example, extensive human rights violations or other acts. However, for example, in the Magnitski case, the government, for various reasons, came to the point that for those people who had reason to believe that they had committed human rights violations, the law on the obligation to leave and the ban on entry was not used, but was decided to use the possibilities provided by the International Sanctions Act. Therefore, since there is already practice where the International Sanctions Act is used not only for the internal enforcement of sanctions imposed by international organisations, but also for Estonia's autonomous measures, we believe that such clarification is justified and necessary in the new Act. Returning to this earlier issue, Estonia's sanction could undoubtedly be wider than just a ban on entry. The ban on entering the Republic of Estonia is certainly one way of punishing persons who are considered to be able to apply this sanction, but the Estonian state can also independently apply financial sanctions, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U385	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U386	Mr. Minister! My question is more about the background to this bill. I understand that since 2002, this is the third full version of the law with the same title. It's pretty unusual. Usually, such full - text exchanges admit that the previous law is not applicable or sleepy. Is this some kind of broader background? Because there should be similar laws in many other countries, and I imagine that all our versions somehow copy many. Is there some pan-European attempt to resurrect such laws, or what is happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U387	Thank you. We can undoubtedly find out for you whether such laws have been replaced as a whole in other Member States of the European Union or NATO. I owe you an answer to that question right now. But the reason really is that the nature of sanctions has changed, not so much that the Estonian law was in some way inadequate or not applicable at the time of its entry into force. There have been so many more sanctions regimes, and they have become, as I said, more complex. During the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, our specialists developed a web application for the European Union that allows businesses, for example, to obtain as easily as possible a detailed overview of the existing sanction regimes, which actually change very quickly in time. Practically every month, packages of restrictive measures at the level of the Council of the European Union are reviewed, with new individuals added. There are also sectoral sanctions and there are sanctions for certain sectors of the economy, which are individual-specific. So this is a very rapidly evolving, very dynamic world. You could say that just our current text of the law is in the way of time. Whether this regulation could have been amended by the draft amendment of the law, it is already a matter of assessment. If the changes to be made are very large, very fundamental, then as a rule, it is justified to go down the path of a new whole text.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U388	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U389	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs! The International Sanctions Act was first adopted in 2002. It's been 16 years, and my question has to do with this. Minister, could you clarify whether during this period the Estonian state has implemented international sanctions and, if so, in what form?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U390	Thank you. Estonia has undoubtedly followed these international sanctions over all these years, which have been mandatory for us in terms of international law. Of course, Estonia is obliged to do so. For example, in the case of restrictive measures imposed by the United Nations, we are also obliged to implement and enforce those measures, such as those adopted by resolutions of the Security Council, at national level. After the adoption of the first complete text, Estonia has joined the European Union, which has resulted in additional obligations for the Estonian state. So, of course, we have always followed international restrictive measures imposed on very different countries, very different subjects. It is a matter of course whether our national regulations have been sufficient to ensure effective monitoring of the effective application of sanctions. The second question, however, is whether these sanctions have also been sufficiently understandable and applicable to those whom they potentially concern, namely the private sector. They must be made known in such a way that they are not sometimes corrupted in good faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U391	George Adams, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U392	Mr. Minister! I concluded from your reply that this bill was launched at the State Department's house probably even before your term of office, and it has not been very disruptive to your ministerial work at the moment. It has gone on its own, autonomously. However, I have a question of this rather. After all, you are also a person with experience in the Riigikogu, and you should know that this year's final week is now followed by two more cycles in the new year. Thus, the initiation of a single draft is, at the moment, essentially of haltura value. The committee will not be able to delve into the content and the majority of the members of the Riigikogu will be involved in the electoral campaign. If you are scheduled here for enforcement on 1 January 2020, why not start a new formation to accept it and resolve it more politely?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U393	Thank you. I didn't quite understand where you took that first assumption. But it is true that the preparation of each draft requires time and, as has been said, this draft concerns not only the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, for example. Also, which of the Estonian authorities is best placed to supervise the execution of one sanction or another has been the subject of quite long official disputes. Undoubtedly, as with almost all legislative initiatives, it would have been nice if it had been earlier. I very much hope that during this remaining working time, the Riigikogu will be able to devote enough to its main work alongside the election campaign. I am referring to those Members who are also taking up a position in the next legislative body. I hope that this draft, as well as all other pending and unfinished drafts, will be dealt with in a thorough and high-quality manner. As we both know, if the Riigikogu is unable or unwilling to do so for any reason, the drafts that have remained in the proceedings at the end of the working time will fall out of there and the new government may already go over the drafts with a rake, deciding which of them will be put back into the proceedings. But, of course, if this Riigikogu, which finishes its work, or the next, fails to process this bill, adopt it as a law and enforce it by 1 January 2020, the Republic of Estonia will still, as a responsible member of the international community, endeavour to fulfil all these obligations on the basis of existing laws. However, this can certainly be done more effectively and effectively if this law is adopted and enforced in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U394	Honourable Minister! No further questions for you. Thank you very much. Mart Nutt, Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U395	Mr President of the meeting! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft at two meetings. The first took place on 13 November and the second on 3 December. Members of the Commission took part in the discussions on 13 November by Marko Mihkelson, who chaired the meeting, Andres Herkel, Barbi Pilvre, Enn Põlluaas, Mart Nutt, Oudekki Loone, Valdo Randpere and Vladimir Velman, Birgit Keind-Leppik, who took part as advisors and Andres Ando as advisors to the Finance Committee. The work of the committee chairman was also in the meeting. There were no members of the Commission, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Anne Sulling. Foreign Minister Sven Mikser and Deputy Chancellor Annely Kolk of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were also invited to the debate. Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the committee, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Andres Herkel, Anne Sulling, Barbi Pilvre, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Nutt, Oudekki Loone and Valdo Randpere attended the meeting on 3 December. Counsellor-Secretariat Chairman Birgit Keerd-Leppik, Adviser Ivar Mölder and Communication Manager were also present. Vladimir Velman was absent. The substantive debate took place in particular at the first session, where Annely Kolk, Minister of Foreign Affairs, presented the draft, as did the Minister of Foreign Affairs here a little while ago. Some questions followed. I am trying not to go into too much detail, but I note that questions were raised by committee chairman Marko Mihkelson and Commission member Oudekki Loone. Perhaps it would be useful to point out the question that Estonian entrepreneurs should pay particular attention to in this law. The answer was that they would first and foremost be given clarity as to what one or the other sanction means. Who is applying this law in Estonia and how can we avoid violating sanctions? This law gives certainty, which is what entrepreneurs have most wanted. We were also introduced to earlier laws on sanctions. Due to Estonia's accession to the European Union, the situation changed in the sense that issues related to the European Union were added. The Minister noted that, apart from deliberately circumventing or violating sanctions, there have been two main concerns for companies so far. One is that sanctions are being violated by ignorance, because the sanction regime is legally complex, and the other is too cautious. The second issue raised was that regulation also amends the Penal Code. Should the word 'consciously' be removed in the description of the offence, and if such a change is made, should there not be a difference in the absence of knowledge of infringements? It's about wanting to be different, isn't it? It was said that the wording of the current law does not allow anyone to be convicted for violating the sanction, because it is very difficult to prove ignorance. The text was therefore written, like other principles of the Penal Code, either directly or indirectly. In other words, it must be proved that the person wanted to violate the sanction, either directly or indirectly. The Court's discretion is a legal general principle and this change does not lead to any automaticism. There's still a difference in will. At present, there is no real possibility of providing for effective and proportionate penalties for the infringement of the sanction; this possibility must be created by amending the law. The third question concerned the coordination process, the opinions of other ministries. The answer was that a rather large national working group was set up during the coordination process. All ministries have coordinated the draft and, at a later stage, the Ministry of the Interior has announced that they intend to review the division of powers of the financial supervisory authorities. This, however, does not directly concern the subject of the Sanctions Act. The Commission also took procedural decisions. Firstly, it was proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda for today. I will tell you in advance that all decisions were taken by consensus. Secondly, it was proposed to close the first reading and, thirdly, to set the deadline for amendments at 11 a.m. on 15 January next year and to appoint Mart Nutt as rapporteur. That's the end of my report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U396	Andres Herkel, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U397	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Yeah, I was on the committee, but I had one more question here. Is it also planned or appropriate to hear the views of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit on the applicability of these new obligations? And when I look at paragraphs 16 to 18 here concerning the obligation of the FIU to make information about the financial sanction available online and to carry out checks, it seems to me to be a fairly understandable procedure. How has it worked so far if there has been no such obligation? What gets sharper, clearer, more understandable?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U398	Thank you. The Commission did not raise this issue before its first reading. But I think that any Member of the Commission, including you, can raise this issue in committee during the second reading debate. I don't see any reason why I can't do that. Maybe it adds something to the quality of the bill. However, the Commission's debate so far did not raise this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U399	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline of 15 January at 11 a.m. for the submission of draft amendments to draft 721.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U400	The next item is the first reading of draft 749 amending the Code of Civil Procedure of the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (establishing the procedure for declaring arbitration decisions enforceable in Estonia). Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U401	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! The purpose of this draft is to bring the regulation of arbitration tribunals into line with the practice of the Supreme Court in civil proceedings in force. The purpose of the draft is also to achieve a situation in which the possibility of taking an unlawful and malicious decision by an arbitration tribunal would be minimal and preventing the enforcement of such a decision would not depend solely on the active use of the defendant against whom the arbitration panel ruling was issued. What's the problem? According to the wording of the current Code of Civil Procedure, decisions of arbitration tribunals operating permanently in Estonia are enforceable without the court having to declare them enforceable in advance. In 2015 the Supreme Court stated that we are in a situation where there is no criterion in any law that would allow us to determine whether an arbitration tribunal is acting permanently. According to the Supreme Court's judgment at the time, arbitration decisions which have not been declared enforceable should not be enforced. This situation arose after the Supreme Court ruling. In practice, the Supreme Court's decision was motivated by the fact that consumer contracts stated that disputes were settled in arbitration. As is well known, arbitration is characterised by the distinction that only formal requirements can be challenged in court, but the substantive question of whether a fair settlement has been reached is not actually assessed in arbitration proceedings. In consumer contracts, it appeared that this was often a problem called "pocket arbitrage' in English. In direct translation, it is then an arbitration in the vest pocket. In the case of certain consumer contracts, the arbitration tribunals clearly made decisions to the detriment of the consumer, in particular with regard to the interests of the company. The intention of the draft act is to clearly state that the decisions of the arbitration panel must be declared enforceable in Estonia, whether they are decisions of a foreign or an Estonian arbitration panel. There are also two exceptions that have been made on the basis of the very long-standing practice of two arbitration tribunals in Estonia. It is proposed that the decisions of the arbitration tribunal of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the arbitration tribunal of the Chamber of Notaries be declared enforceable without being declared enforceable by the court. The general idea is to protect consumers and do so in such a way that we comply with the International Arbitration Convention, the New York Convention. In fact, arbitration procedures for the protection of investments by national companies are legitimate and must also be recognised by the States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U402	Krista Aru, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U403	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Here, either in a round of discussions on coordination or on the intention to develop, there is a proposal to make public all decisions on arbitration settlements. What conclusion was reached in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U404	I congratulate you intelligently on the important question that has been raised, but I am not going to improvise here. I would like to say frankly at once that, as far as I know, there are no significant differences in the scope of the current arbitration procedure. When we are talking about company-to-business disputes, companies actually agree that the issue will be resolved by arbitration, particularly in the interests of the security of turnover. Both parties expect it to be an impartial body for the resolution of business disputes. Sometimes these disputes can be very complicated. The important thing is that a final solution is made, whether you like it or not, but the company can move on. And obviously, there might be some very specific business secrets. So I think that, as far as the principle of general disclosure is concerned, the arbitration panel means that two individuals, be they natural persons or companies, agree that we resolve the dispute, we do not involve the state, we resolve the dispute among ourselves. I suppose that the right of the private sphere to agree in this way definitely requires interest that any delicate business information that might be made would not be in the hands of third parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U405	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U406	Mr. Minister! As far as I know, if Estonia is dealing with major commercial disputes that go to arbitration, the majority of these arbitration courts are not located in Estonia. In particular, if the other party is a foreign legal entity, the solution will be made mainly in Stockholm or London. Arbitrators exist in Estonia, but in general their areas are more different. I would have been delighted if you had brought some figures on these areas, but maybe you don't have them at your disposal. However, I am interested in what can be said, namely, about the enforceability of arbitration decisions made abroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U407	When it comes to international arbitration, for example, we have in investment protection agreements that disputes may also be settled in arbitration if we have concluded agreements with specific countries before joining the European Union. But, for example, the agreement on investment protection between the United States and Estonia states that disputes will be resolved, if I remember correctly, in the UN arbitration. Here was the incoherent story that, in the case of the return of the Seaplane Harbour, a businessman named Rotko announced that he was an American investor. In order to obtain a solution as to how these movements of shares in the company have taken place, it gave the matter up to international arbitration under that agreement. The question now is whether, in such a case, if some arbitration decision is made elsewhere that should be executed on the territory of the Republic of Estonia, it really must be complied with. We are a party to the Global Convention and certainly in the Republic of Estonia these decisions are to be enforced, but with a clear clause that the application must first be submitted to our court, where it may be declared enforceable. In doing so, our court will check compliance with the formalities, the substantive assessments of whether the judgment is correct or not, it will not. The court shall check that the formal requirements have been complied with and, after that, the person seeking enforcement of the decision shall have the basis to go to the bailiff. And then the bailiff will use his strength. But the practical problems of enforcing international arbitration rulings in Estonia have not reached my ears.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U408	George Adams, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U409	Minister, I think that even someone like you with a basically optimistic outlook does not consider it realistic that this law will enter into force on 1 January 2019, as stipulated in the draft and the explanatory memorandum. What are the important reasons why the bill reached the Riigikogu about a year later than originally planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U410	I'm not too smart to say anything about these reasons. The draft has been carefully considered and analysed by various lawyers and stakeholders. There is no specific time bomb in front of Parliament here that, precisely before the end of this term of office, it must be done. But as I read in the Virumaa Journal, today is an international anti-whispering day, and it allows me to add little oxygen to my optimism. Lennart Meri once said that the president's job is like a marathon run: you have to start fresh and you have to finish fresh. So he pointed to Peter Tulviste's candidacy. In fact, I believe that this Parliament, too, has at least no doubt about it, and I am running the marathon until the end of freshness. I've always wondered why the winner can still walk after graduation, but people come in after the finish line.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U411	Thank you very much to the Minister. No further questions. Our marathon session will continue with a presentation by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, in which we will hear the views of the commission. Please, Uno Kaskpeit!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U412	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I was already afraid there wouldn't be anyone to report. This draft was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on Monday, 3 December. The session was chaired by Jaanus Karilaid, president, and attended by Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Olga Ivanova, Tarmo Kruusimäe, who replaced Raivo Aegi, Toomas Paur, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomas, advisor Linnar Liivamägi and adviser-secretariat manager Raini Laide. There were no two members: Külliki Hatter and Mati Raidma. Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Mr Stella Johanson, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, were invited. The Minister of Justice gave an overview of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and related amendments to other laws (establishing the procedure for declaring arbitration judgments enforceable in Estonia). I'm not gonna say it again. He did a very thorough review here. Jaanus Karilaid wanted to know how many arbitration decisions are made a year. Stella Johanson explained that the arbitration panel was acting on a private basis and that the Ministry of Justice had no information on how many arbitration decisions were taken. This can only be assessed on the basis of a declaration of execution. In 2016, they were in the order of 1800. He pointed out that this figure dates from the period prior to the Supreme Court ruling No 3-2-1-142-15 of 20 April 2016. This court settlement says that any arbitration ruling that operates in Estonia must be declared enforceable, as the bailiff cannot assess whether or not it is an arbitration panel that operates permanently in Estonia. Jaanus Karilaid asked me to explain how an arbitration panel would be formed. The Minister explained that the arbitration panel was not an institution; it was a private dispute resolution team. Linnar Liivamägi explained that the parties refer to the arbitration panel primarily in order to avoid paying state fees and find a quicker solution than court proceedings. While impartiality is guaranteed in the arbitration courts and the Notaries Chambers of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the purpose of the draft is to establish clear criteria for the operation of other arbitration tribunals in order to ensure their impartiality. Olga Ivanova asked if she had to have a judgment in order for the bailiff to take the case. Stella Johanson explained that the court had to review the procedural conditions before the bailiff was able to take enforcement action to comply with the arbitration ruling. The Court does not pay attention to the content of the decision. He pointed out that arbitration proceedings would only take place with the agreement of the parties. There are also higher criteria for an arbitration agreement. A party wishing to enter into an arbitration agreement with the consumer shall provide sufficient information in advance as to the legal meaning of the arbitration and its decision. It also pointed out that since 2015 the dispute arising from the consumer credit agreement was not subject to arbitration proceedings. In addition, the arbitration procedure cannot agree on the settlement of disputes concerning the rental of a dwelling. Urve Tiidus was interested in how much the duty to recognise an arbitration ruling would increase the workload of the courts. Stella Johanson explained that following the 2016 Supreme Court ruling, several arbitration courts ceased their activities, whose judgments could not have been declared enforceable by the courts. There is no reason to believe that the administrative burden on the courts will increase after the market has been organised, in addition, the arbitration tribunal must provide the court with sufficient reliable information to enable the court to declare enforceable in the course of proceedings without an action for review. Toomas Vitsut asked for an assessment of the activities of bailiffs in this process. Stella Johanson explained that before the judgment cited by the Supreme Court there was a difference in practice: there were executives who were guided by the principle that arbitration tribunals who have made several decisions can be considered as permanent arbitration tribunals. There were also those who did not dare to take arbitration rulings. The purpose of this draft is to establish the clarity that the bailiff must be guided by the principle of formalisation. This means that a decision which has entered into force or an enforceable instrument which can be used for enforcement must be taken for enforcement purposes. Therefore, if the settlement has to be declared enforceable in advance in order to comply with the arbitration panel ruling, that settlement may not be accepted without the declaration of enforceability. Toomas Vitsut noted that bailiffs are supervised by the Ministry of Justice and asked if there had been any irregularities in the activities of bailiffs in the framework of the supervision. Stella Johanson explained that bailiffs are not supervised in the light of legal issues. The Minister considered that there was nothing to blame for bailiffs in this area; they had acted under the law in force. Olga Ivanova asked for clarification as to whether the decision of the arbitration panel could be challenged. Stella Johanson explained that there was a procedure for the annulment of the arbitration ruling. The Minister explained that, in essence, the decision of the arbitration panel was final. Vilja Toomast stated that the bailiff acts on the basis of a judgment. Stella Johanson stated that § 2 of the Code of Enforcement Procedure lists other documents among the enforcement documents. Urve Tiidus asked for clarification as to whether the draft rule out the impartiality of the arbitration panel when it became a law. Stella Johanson explained that the Court would monitor whether the rights of the parties were guaranteed in arbitration proceedings. The rules governing the arbitration panel's ruling shall be mutually agreed between the Parties. Linnar Liivamägi pointed out that the provisions for the entry into force of the draft should be amended and the law could enter into force in general terms. Stella Johanson agreed. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda (consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensus), to appoint Hardi Volmer as rapporteur, but last night the rapporteur was changed because Hardi Volmer had something to do, could not attend the session this evening, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 14 p.m. on 31 December (consensus). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U413	I would point out that my papers have a deadline of 3 January at 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U414	It's December 31st.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U415	The councilman shows that 3 January at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U416	Then there's been a mistake. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U417	Okay, it's specified. Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Are the groups willing to negotiate? George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U418	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am here expressing my opinion on the basis of the text of this draft and explanatory memorandum. I was not on the committee, I am not part of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. But I had an exchange of thoughts with Külliki Hatter, a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, who belongs there as a representative of the Free Party Group. I must draw your attention to the fact that the problems of this bill are considerably greater than they appear at the first moment. It seems that all this has been triggered by practical problems in the work of bailiffs, which must not be underestimated. At present, bailiffs play an exceptional role in the functioning of the Estonian state and Estonian economy. I am not saying that this role is always justified and balanced, but we are living in a time when the Republic of Estonia is generally a country of bailiffs. Returning to the arbitration panel, I will explain that the important point of the arbitration panel is to avoid an excessive burden on the judiciary. In life, the majority of economic disputes are likely to be settled before one party refers to the court. There are two types of arbitration. One is when we say that Mr Herkel and I are arguing with each other who owes to whom. Then we have two options to settle the case before we go to court. We are addressing some groups of permanent people known as arbitration and we are asking them to solve the problem for us. Or another option: we agree to jointly select a third party as a one-off arbitration. These are the main guys. In both cases, it is also a matter of guaranteeing us the right to appeal to the courts. So there is no such possibility that no court can be seised after the arbitration decision. I have to admit, I didn't hear the last of the waitresses saying whether they're trying something like this or not trying to take away this opportunity. One of the most confusing things and the most politically important decision in this draft is that two arbitration tribunals operating in Estonia are granted a completely different status from everyone else. One is the arbitration court of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the other is the arbitration tribunal of the Chamber of Notaries. According to my memory, the House of Notaries is a public corporation that has been set up by law. I don't know how the Notary Act provides for their arbitration. If it's written there, it's not bad at all, but then the law has to specify it. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U419	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U420	The arbitration court of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry should not be a public organisation. It is a completely private organisation, and to give it a basically public-law function, it is such a legal cocktail, that in this current text I do not understand how the tragedy officials of the Ministry of Justice have come up with such an idea. So, to sum up, it is not very clear here, first of all, what are the reasons why, according to the needs of the bailiffs, the arbitration rules should be squeezed into what word I would use, i.e. the South Estonian word 'kimmämbäs' to make them work better. Is this thing gonna pay off? Maybe, yeah, maybe not. We did not get an explanation from the Minister, nor does it come out of the draft. What comes out, however, is what I said in the debate on the previous draft. Until the end of the Riigikogu's term of office, there is very little time left to try to solve such a large and serious problem in the last two months, to turn it into a rather problematic draft law, it is similar to a Haltura, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to the rubber stamping of the Riigikogu for many years. My appeal, both through the verbatim report of this sitting and directly to you here, as well as to all those involved, including the Minister and Mr Liivamäe, is that perhaps you will do so by failing to do so before 3 March and by allowing the substantive procedure to be developed in the new formation. Then there will be a little more time for all officials as well as members of the Riigikogu as well as all those involved. It is very difficult for me to predict the bad consequences this could have, and there is no time to even predict it. But so that these good intentions, which are, by the way, quite confusingly formulated here, can be realised without the resulting negative consequences, I have never seen it happen in such a situation. So the composition of the Honourable Riigikogu XIII, this bill is not good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U421	In addition to what has just been said, the Estonian Free Party Group proposes to reject bill 749 at first reading. I will conclude the negotiations if the Minister does not want to speak on this issue anymore. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U422	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U423	Honorable previous speaker! I want to assure you that this bill doesn't contain anything bad for people. On the contrary, we are talking about the fact that, in practice, consumer contracts have clearly shown the status of arbitration that creates unfairness. And in order to better protect consumers in these contractual relations above all, regulation is provided for that there is no automatic compulsory enforcement of the decisions of permanent arbitration tribunals in civil proceedings. It was pointed out here that it was as if we were a 'public right' to a Chamber of Commerce, which I believe should certainly not be a public corporation. I can assure you that will certainly not happen. The Notarial Law refers to the jurisdiction of the Notarial Court, but, in fact, the arbitration bodies of both bodies are either conciliation bodies or arbitration bodies with private status. There is no extension of public law status to these institutions. Believe me, these concerns or fears are unfounded, and I want to sum up all my strength to dispel them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U424	Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U425	Thank you very much, Minister. The Free Party Group has proposed to reject draft law 749 at first reading and this will inevitably lead to a call to the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, just in case, I would remind you that we are currently dealing with draft 749. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. The Estonian Free Party Group proposes to reject this draft at first reading. I am voting on the rejection of the Estonian Free Party Group's proposal. Please take a stand and vote. 4 delegates voted in favour of the proposal, 8 against. The proposal was not supported. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 749 amendments at 4 p.m. on 3 January. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U426	Thank you, Mr President. I had a question, looking at the board. How do you explain to us that 1 member of the Riigikogu was currently absent from the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U427	I'll be honest with you, although I've been going to school for a few winters, I didn't understand the question. [[Voices from the floor.]] Ah, the board also showed presence and who is in the session... Okay, now the President of the sitting also understood the question. But the decision has been made. There aren't many of us, but our decision is compelling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U428	Ladies and gentlemen, Today's latest item on the agenda or, let's say, an evening item: First reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U429	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members! The National Reform Foundation has proposed to reduce Parliament to 99 members, but, as you can see, the 13-member parliament is also able to take decisions in the country. However, the Government has submitted to Parliament amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and several other laws resulting from the need to further regulate legal relations. First of all, this so-called 'little Martin case' is the issue of deciding on the appointment of a guardian to a child. The list of relatives who are able to lodge an appeal to that effect is known to be closed by the law in force. The amendment has been made so that any person who has a close and trusty relationship with a child can be a creditor in order to file a complaint against a child in the case of the appointment of a guardian. This would be necessary in a situation where the child to whom the appointment of guardian is being dealt with does not have parents or grandparents. In this case, it was known that the child had an aunt but had no right to be a party to the proceedings in that complaint. The second legal relationship that is regulated concerns the proposals of the Supreme Court regarding restrictions on the right of appeal in civil proceedings, enforcement proceedings and bankruptcy proceedings. This mainly concerns the right to appeal to the Supreme Court against the decrees of the District Court concerning appeals against the decree of the County Court. Both appeals against procedural regulations and appeals against final decisions without an action shall be kept in mind. The aim is to ensure procedural economy and to make better use of the resources of justice. It means that there is a right of appeal, but it is not a two-step, it is a one-step. And thirdly, the draft contains provisions according to which, in family cases without action, the court should take account of the fact that the parent has been violent against the child or the other parent when conducting procedural measures and deciding on the manner in which the measures are to be taken. The aim of the amendment is to combat close-relationship violence and to avoid situations where, as a result of procedural measures, the child or the other parent of the child would have to deal with a violent parent, or such a parent would be appointed as guardian of the child. This is a matter which the courts must bear in mind, above all, in matters of custody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U430	Any questions for the Minister? George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U431	Mr. Minister! You were probably a member of the Riigikogu at the time, or you were suddenly in the government when I was not here in the Riigikogu during several formations. I remember that it was originally the case that the order could not, as a rule, be filed anywhere. Then there was an important change in Estonian legal policy, and almost all the regulations were subject to appeal. What years was it about? Can you tell me? How long have we been in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U432	I say this: I am too young to remember such important facts. In this area, your experience, whether as a Member or outside Parliament, is certainly of invaluable value. I'm not going to make an estimate here, I don't want to mislead the public representation. Such matters must certainly be highly correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U433	Thank you very much. No further questions. The Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs Uno Kaskpeit shall make a presentation on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U434	Mr. President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on this draft also took place on Monday, 3 December. The debate on this draft was attended by exactly the same people who took part in the debate on the previous draft. The third item on the agenda at that meeting was the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws 759. The Minister gave an overview of this, as is the case today. Jaanus Karilaid asked the Estonian Bar Association to present its comments. The Minister pointed out that the draft had been based on the proposals of the Supreme Court. The general aim of the courts is to reach a solution, while disputes over procedures and technical procedural nuances are useful for lawyers. A working group of experts has analysed the violation of fundamental rights. The Minister pointed out that interference with fundamental rights does not automatically constitute an anti-constitutional situation. Stella Johanson noted that the comments made by the Estonian Bar Association mainly concerned the limitation of the right to appeal when it comes to contesting the costs of proceedings and family matters without an action. They have been excluded from the bill. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today (consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensus), to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 3 January 2019 and to appoint Uno Kaskpeit as rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U435	Any questions for the waitress? George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U436	Here's the question. You were given an overview of the number of bankruptcy proceedings in Estonia in recent years. This figure, I can't find it in the explanatory memorandum right now, is over a thousand. Ah, I found 1383 things as of 2016. You didn't explain the contents of this number, did you? How many of them are individual bankruptcies and how many others are commercial bankruptcies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U437	No, there was no debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U438	Thank you very much. No further questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Jüri Adams, please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U439	Mr President of the sitting! I will start by saying in the debate on the previous item that Estonia is, to a large extent, the state of executive officials, the state of the enforcement procedure. It is quite interesting that there is a table in the explanatory memorandum to this draft. On pages 15 and 16, there is a table of how many bailiffs have charged individuals in the course of the year. The letter shall indicate the number of debtors and proceedings. And if you notice, these figures were over 101000 in 2016, about 101500. If we consider that there are about 900000 adult residents in Estonia, this means that every ninth person will be in contact with an executive officer during the year in connection with the repayment of a debt. As far as the substance of the draft is concerned, unlike the previous one, it is not a comprehensive draft. There are six points here, which all relate to the Code of Civil Procedure. In each of these six points, the Riigikogu and also the determining committee have to make their own decisions and these are certainly decision-making decisions. I would like to draw attention to one thing that I also asked the Minister. Some year after 2003 there was a very important change in Estonian legal policy. In fact, before that, the court orders were generally final. It is not only the courts who make judgments that are entitled to a dispute or what punishment must be imposed on the person responsible. In essence, tens of times more organisational decisions are taken in court, starting with the date of the hearing, which papers must be, who are recognised as participants, etc. If, for example, citizens have observed the criminal case of taking bribes from Edgar Savisaar, they have seen that the main dispute has not been over the substance, but precisely over these regulations: whether it is possible to have a trial in absentia, whether a sick person, an invalid person, should be brought to the scene, whether he is able to participate. These are all regulation-level decisions. Now, as I said, at some point since at least 1992 the court orders were largely not open to appeal and the burden on the courts in Estonia continued to decrease during the first 15 years after that. And at some point, I think, for some reason, that Mr present Minister is also involved in this in some way, a political decision was made between the leading officials of the courts and the officials of the State Department of Justice, that the Regulation's appeals are also open to appeal. And this was done precisely so as not to raise the question of the need to reduce the number of judges, because they have too little work to do. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U440	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U441	This decision has, in my opinion, given the judiciary a huge amount of empty work. Among other things, this has caused cancer that paralyses the work of our courts, i.e. the constant complaints of a large number of prisoners, which drive the Estonian judicial system mad. What I want to say is that for me, the most sympathetic fact in this bill is that there has been an attempt here to take the first small step towards this, to reduce the complaints against court orders called 'order appeals'. This word is not understood by any Estonian, but it is an appeal against a court order. Now they're gonna want to start pulling their numbers together a little bit. I very much recommend to the current Minister and the following Ministers of Justice: please take stronger steps in this direction. Then we could get the courts to work a little faster, and the judges would have more time for self-improvement and other important things that should be part of their lives. They should not be dealing with the processing of insanely pointless and empty complaints. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-12_U442	Is there any further wish for the representatives of the political groups to negotiate? Not the minister either? Thank you very much. Let's close this bill procedure. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 759. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 3 January. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this day's work. We will continue to work in this hall in eleven and a half hours. Closure of the sitting at 10.20 p.m.
