ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 5th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U2	Good morning, good members of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I will report an inquiry to Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. This relates to the organisation of free state legal aid, which was triggered last week by the media debate. Last week's Question Time also had questions on this subject. In particular, we adopted the State Legal Aid Act in the last days of last year, namely on 28 December. At quite cosmic speed, the decree and decree of the Minister of Justice were adopted after the legislative changes were made and a competition was announced, which ended on February 12. As a result, we have reached a situation where a three-year EUR 2.2 million contract has gone into the hands of a service provider who, to put it mildly, is suspicious. Another concern is when we look at who has the right to free legal aid. It is intended for all residents who receive up to 1.5 times the minimum income. The target group is therefore 500000 people. And if the contract volume for one year is 760000, it is as if the service should be provided for EUR 1,52. In fact, the wording 'free legal aid' is also mistaken, as this legal aid is not free. The first two hours are free, but the person still has to pay 5 euros for the contract anyway. Why, however, was the public procurement not carried out, but was the subject of a public competition? So there are more than one questions and we expect answers from the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U3	I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. The Board of the Riigikogu behaves with it as usual, i.e. according to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 77 delegates will take part in the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U4	Today's first item: First reading of the Riigikogu's decision of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, 'Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Indrek Koolmeister', draft 579. I call Jüri Adams, vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as a waitress. As long as he comes to the microphone, I will remind you how we will deal with this draft decision. First, the presentation by the representative of the commission will be up to 20 minutes and then the questions will be for the rapporteur. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask one oral question. Then there are negotiations where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. Colleagues Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U5	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Supreme Judge Indrek Koolmeister has applied for retirement because he has reached the age prescribed for the Supreme Court, the judge in general, to complete the judicial work and to retire. According to the current law, it is currently 68 years of age, from which it is in principle possible to extend work as a judge for a further 2+2 years. Indrek Koolmeister has been a judge of state since 2003. Before that, he was mostly a lawyer at a law firm with his own name. He has also been a professor at the University of Tartu. He is also one of the authors of the textbook on administrative law. He is one of the men who has shaped the current Estonian administrative law. In the Supreme Court he also acted in the administrative college. This procedure, which we are obliged to perform, is quite archaic. There are historical reasons for this, probably from the 19th century, but perhaps from the 18th century. In the light of the experience of that time, there was an understanding that the independence of the judge would be better ensured if it was not possible to exert pressure on him to leave the judicial office against his will. I do not know that we have ever had any such experience in history in Estonia, but this is the case now. I recently met Mr. Koolmaster personally and asked him if he had anything to complain about, nor is he forced to resign against his will. He assured me that was not the case. And I've never heard such claims from anyone else. I think we have a reason to satisfy Mr. Koolmaster's wishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U6	You have questions too. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U7	Thank you. A good waitress, what happens if the Riigikogu does not take this decision, does not dismiss him? Is it possible to force a person to continue working in Estonia even though he or she would like to retire?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U8	I really don't know what's gonna happen because there's never been a practice like this. And obviously there's no point in me or you or anyone else starting to theorize at all. If such an experience ever comes, we'll sit down, put our heads together and think about what to do next.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U9	According to the traditions of the Riigikogu, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will probably present a new draft decision very soon. Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U10	Thank you, President-in-Office. A good colleague from the Commission! I very much like Arto's way of thinking, and actually we were discussing it in committee. You yourself were the one who said that it would probably be wise to change the law in this regard, so that these life-releases should not go through for the Riigikogu. Be good and comment on it here too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U11	I've partly already made my comment. In my opinion, this is one of the experiences of the emergence of a democratic regime and society that was acquired long before the Estonian people took the path of building their own independent state. I don't know much about this area. We have transposed this principle and, according to me, we have not had any problems so far. At the same time, it has not been too burdensome for us either, nor can we continue to do so. Obviously, it is the international burden of experience that it is better to dismiss a judge in this way than in some other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U12	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U13	Thank you. When you answered Arto Asa's question, you said that you did not know what would happen if the Riigikogu did not release him from office, that then you had to start thinking. Practice is a criterion of truth. Did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs not propose that we go through this solution in practice and, in future, decide whether this release is necessary in this form? Let's see what happens next. Let's go through this in practice!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U14	You could try it like that, but the life of the country probably doesn't have to be called a joke. The method of organising experiments is not the right way to shape this practice. I was more expressing my philosophy here. It was also quite important and debated during the drafting of the constitution that how much time, energy, energy and money must be spent in the country to discuss theoretical issues unless a practical need has emerged. I am a bit extremely representative of a school who thinks that these issues should not be discussed. It is also an important principle of the constitutional review of our courts today that we do not discuss theoretical issues in courts. They are only discussing matters that are specific to a particular situation in life.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U15	Mart Nutt.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U16	Mr President! The most important thing for the functioning of the state is that the institutions are consistent, that institutional continuity is not interrupted. In the case of executive power, there have been situations in the world where, for example, the government wishes to resign, but the Head of State does not release it because it is not possible to form a new government and create a situation where there is no government. In the case of judges, the situation is slightly different, but it is important that the work of the Court does not stop because there are no judges. I think that a judge who wishes to retire should be able to do so without Parliament's decision, but that decision should not enter into force until a new judge has been appointed. What do you think of that line of reasoning?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U17	This is one possibility and there are probably a number of practices in the world. It is also expected that there will be countries where the judiciary will be allowed to work until almost old age or until the wish to leave is published in person. We have this tradition right now, and I don't see that it would be much worse. However, Mr Nutt, the reference to your question was absolutely correct, that there is no similarity or analogy with the various other departures. The work of judging will not be missed if a single judge disappears, either in health or in retirement. There are many judges and those who continue to work as judges take over the pending cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U18	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U19	Good manager! Good waitress! I will continue to ask Mart Nut's question. If a guru of administrative law with such a caliber retires on its own initiative, is continuity guaranteed? Is this the place where we have a judge of at least the same level? And how many of these peaks of their area will be retiring in the near future, for whom we need to discuss whether or not to retire?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U20	The law sets a limit on the number of judges of state, of which no more judges of state may be allowed. That's the number we have right now at 19. There are quite a few people who became judges of state in the first place when the Supreme Court was restored in 1993. It's a younger generation now. If this seat of Mr Koolmeister's judge of state is now vacant, then the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Pikamäe, will come to us soon and present his candidate, who could be appointed as a judge of state. We have a lot of questions ahead of us. One thing is that we should think about whether it is time to change the principles of electing judges of state in Estonia. In the young Estonian country, it was practiced that very many people who did not have practical experience in judicial work became state judges. They were mostly experts or lecturers in the relevant field of law. It's pretty unusual in the world. Usually, after decades of judicial careers, a judge of the first instance becomes a judge of second instance and stands out there. I would say that the composition of the Estonian Supreme Court is currently not typical or unusual in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U21	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U22	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This is an exciting debate that could certainly be continued, and your answers are very interesting. But I ask what is the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this draft. It was not clear from the above whether the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to support this draft and what other procedural decisions were.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U23	I'm so sorry! I imagined that we had some kind of telepathic connection, that you would understand without me saying that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is asking for this draft to be supported and that Mr Koolmaster should be given the opportunity to retire.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U24	With the chair of the sitting, this telepathic communication is working; I already have this decision here in writing. Mr Ernits, there is an oral question to be asked, but it is now possible for the representatives of the political groups to start negotiations. That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is indeed a final vote on draft 579 and we will prepare it. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the Riigikogu's decision of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, 'Freedom of a Member of the Riigikogu Indrek Koolmeister from the judicial office', draft 579. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the population voted in favour of the draft, no respondents or abstentions. Draft 579 of the Riigikogu's decision of Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, 'Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Indrek Koolmeister', has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U25	Today's second item: Igor Gräzini, Toomas Vitsuti, Valdo Randpere, Artur Talvik, Peeter Ernitsa, Liisa Oviir, Martin Helme and Henn First reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by members of the Riigikogu, 551. As a waitress, Igor Gräzin appears in front of the microphone. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U26	Ladies and gentlemen, The first thing I want to draw your attention to is that this bill has not been initiated or processed by any party. It is not officially supported by any party, and no party is against it either. Those people who have signed here have done so individually, outside their other political convictions. The second thing I want to mention as an introduction is that seven people have signed here, but, in terms of honour and history, it has to be said that there are a number of people behind the initiation of this draft who are no longer present in the Riigikogu. It is our duty to name their names: Professor Rait Maruste, Lauri Vitsut has been signed by Toomas, but this is his brother, Karel Rüütli from the People's Union and Jaanus Rahumägi from us, i.e. the Reform Party. It was the people who started this bill ten years ago. This bill has had, as they say, a complicated childhood. He's been here many times, but he's been left unfinished for a number of reasons. The time of the XII Riigikogu was re-established in 2015 and the bill that came here simply fell out of the procedure. A few words in the background, and then specifically from this bill. On several occasions, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the legal community have discussed the issue that the criminal procedural law of the Republic of Estonia is far from being perfect. There are gaps and mistakes. Criminal proceedings are so-called working, but criminal proceedings and the way in which the trial is conducted would require quite a capital reform. In particular, from the lawyers' circles, the view has come that in fact the Code of Criminal Procedure should be rewritten from one end to the next. But that's not the point. The thing is, there are real mistakes inside. This leads to a third conclusion. The current proposal, which will lead to one change in criminal proceedings, does not solve all problems related to criminal proceedings. And what is very important is that this is under no circumstances a pretext for either the Ministry of Justice or anyone else to stop the work being done for the purposes of the review of criminal proceedings. That doesn't cancel the audit. On the contrary, for the first time, one of the many audit ideas has the chance of reaching the level of law. There's another nuance. When we talk about matters relating to criminal proceedings, either the Riigikogu or our other higher authorities are characterised by one embarrassing fact. Life is like we've got somebody on trial all the time. As far as I know, the maximum percentage in the Riigikogu has been eight, i.e. 8% of the Riigikogu has been at trial at the same time. This made us one of the most criminal organisations in the Republic of Estonia. What's the problem here anyway? The problem is, whatever you do in criminal proceedings, it is always possible to say that it benefits one process or another, that you want to tilt it in favour of either this or the other. With this bill, it went very well in that sense. We turned it in with seven of us, and we discussed it in the Committee on Legal Affairs in such a way that there were no directly tense cases. That kind of thing just came in yesterday, again! In short, we managed to catch a relatively short period of legal peace. And I want to emphasise one more moment. This draft does not favour anyone specifically, it favours the way in which justice is dealt with in our criminal courts. It is not on anyone's side, and it is not against anyone, this bill has been drawn up for the sake of justice. Now to the contents. I'm sure you've noticed in the press, and otherwise you've noticed that we have processes that are unacceptably dragging on for years! just, with these cases being investigated in criminal proceedings, we have basically become a punishment in our own right. The press, the employer, doesn't know who's punishing a man long before the trial. 5 January 2018, Õhtuleht: Eesti Raudtee rescinded Fedorenko. We are talking about a corruption-related criminal case where nothing has happened yet, but Estonian Railway has already taken a person back. There are things like that over and over again. Let's think about it now, if the criminal investigation phase is discovered, if the police investigate and if the prosecutor's office starts operating, then it will last for an awfully long time. In fact, this means that we are punishing people all these years without establishing their guilt. By the way, I agree with Gleb Žeglov, who said, 'The Varga place is in prison. " That is the case, but the special feature of the rule of law is that they go to prison on the basis of judgment and evidence. I mention some cases that you know about, not that they are more important than others, or the like, but we just have a common information base on them, Delfi, newspapers, whatever. Land change process: lasted from July 2006 to December 2008, the court until 2014 i.e. basically eight years. This famous plastic bag story, Meikargate: six months without any trial. Port of Tallinn: from August 2015 to April 2017, four months were in prison. Kärdla's plane crash: the accused pilot was acquitted, but the pre-trial investigation lasted for six months, with no expertise being carried out. Kajar Lember: started in 2016, nothing has happened to date. Soop: from October 2015 to October 2017, batteryically two years, the conviction just came. Crème de la crème, crown of all our criminal cases Kaur Kender: from December 2014 to May 2016 - one year and five months. Savisaar: from 3 February 2011 to November 2016, only after that went to court. Story of Rakvere: No one knows when and what happens next. Hazel: more than a year and no end. And so on. I mean, these are all things where criminal sanctions, or tagging, have been applied in essence without any clarity. In fact, I would also like to draw attention to what makes this concern very great and what I have said here many times. Our criminal proceedings have acquired a new dimension and a new operation. This operation is an interview and a press conference. Without a press conference and an interview, there is no proper criminal case in Estonia. Because I named those ten stories, they might say, "Oh, yeah, they're famous." Yeah, they're famous, but that's why I used them. There are certainly no thousands of these things, but I suppose there are at least hundreds of them that stretch as much as you can and where the other half are people we don't know anything about: a small gas station owner or a parish official. We do not know what these things are because there are no statistics on them and there is no interest in them by journalists either. What's the problem? The Code of Criminal Procedure states that pre-trial investigations must take place within a reasonable period of time. Everything! Let me remind you of the famous Murphy quote: 'The duration of minutes depends on which side of the toilet door you're on. " Reasonable time seems to be very different for the subject and the investigator, and there can be no common reasonable criterion in this respect. If you read this bill now, you will see that there is nothing more to say here than to re-establish the time limits for criminal investigations: if you fail in three months, the investigation can be extended to six months and, if you still fail at all, to nine months. With this time, the preliminary investigation must be completed. And there is nothing original about this proposal, such deadlines have been before. Now, what do you want to mark here? There are also circumstances that stop the period running. One of the grounds for stopping is when a criminal is hiding: he's run away, we haven't caught him, he's gone to London or anything like that. During this time, the deadline will not run. The deadline does not run even if no substantial evidence is received. For example, if we write a letter to Switzerland but Switzerland does not reply to us for six months, a year or a half. Within that year and a half, the deadline stands. Or if we're sending some kind of piece of expertise, it's gonna take some time to run a DNA analysis, drills, etc. You can't go any faster, and time is up. So in reality, we are talking about the nominal, direct investigation period for which we are now setting deadlines. There is a concern that has also been voiced by the Prosecutor General of the Republic. He said very sympatheticly that as soon as you set deadlines, we will meet them, in that sense do not worry at all, and that is indeed the case, but the administrative burden is increasing, because the investigator and the prosecutor will be obliged to go and extend their file. If three months cannot be completed, the week before that will have to go to court, where this period of criminal investigation will be extended. So the administrative burden is increasing. After this statement, we thought, along with a couple of colleagues from the bar Association, that this administrative burden meant a maximum of 15 minutes of writing. The request for extension does not need to talk about a criminal case, but it needs to say why the deadline is being extended: no one has reached the deadline, no one was ill, that is what the evidence really cannot be obtained, etc. In other words, it is a 15 - hour paper for the person conducting the investigation, who knows the whole situation by heart anyway. But he must be convincing and able to tell the judge why it went that way. And finally another humanitarian moment, after which I will be happy to answer the questions. We have talked very much about human rights and very much referred to the European Court of Human Rights. We know many rights, we have the right to work, we have the right to leave, we have the right to a normal environment, we have the right to anything, but we forget that there is another right that we rarely recall. This is the right to a hearing just not even a fair hearing, which is the next point, but the right to a hearing. In 1215 England's King John Maata established the principle for the British noblemen that they have the right to demand, 'Court, come together, because I want to talk to you. ' If we wait a year, two, three or four, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, came up with a case where eight years have been stretched, then we deny the fundamental right. Yeah, I'm guilty. Yeah, I'm a criminal. Yeah, I'm either one or the other, but it's your job to give me a duty. I don't want to talk to you. I want to talk to the court. It is a 800-year-old European human right, as confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights. This is not confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights in individual cases; this is confirmed by the resolution as a whole. There, by the way, are mentioned different deadlines, but these are fixed to a pre-screening not to be infinite. Here is the corresponding bill, and my proposal and request is that we read it nicely and see what happens next. This is the point of discussion. And I'm glad this idea has come this far for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U27	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Valdo Randpere. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I am also glad that this bill has reached this hall, and I strongly support the idea that justice should be more effective than it is now often in Estonia. But I have another question. Even if I wholeheartedly support this bill, I can actually see the problem of not only a pre-trial investigation taking a long time, but also a trial. Just this week, a message came that this corruption case of the Port of Tallinn will be discussed in court, see that it has been five years since the beginning of the preliminary investigation at the end of 2020. As a next step, after we hopefully have adopted this draft, can we do something to shorten the entire judicial process so that cases can also be dealt with more effectively in court?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U29	Thank you for your question. A hundred percent agree! In fact, it is a trial for a person, a trial for a trial, a trial for a trial, a trial, and so on. And if you put more court to the examples mentioned here, these things were much longer. The same story of Kärdla lasted ten years with the court. I think one step at the time, let's try to do the first thing. But what you pointed out is, of course, crucial. I think you've noticed, and you know that sometimes the judge says, 'I ask the representatives of the parties to the back room. ' And what does the judge usually say? In the back room, the sacramental sentence is said: "Let's take out our calendars! " Maybe lawyers, prosecutors, etc. will be planning hearings years in advance. In other words, the court does not even consider that something could go faster. And the court doesn't take into account when it turns out that a person has to be acquitted and doesn't need it for three years. So thank you for pointing that out. I think it's the next phase to think about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U30	Thank you. Good colleague! Clearly, stretching has become a great part of the punishment, and there's nothing to be surprised about. If we look again at what the press is doing, they will publish all kinds of recordings, recordings, materials, they will explain why. The press itself has said that we are doing this to create more background and background that it is necessary. Have you found out where these materials are still leaking? The Kapo and the DA's office say that lawyers who do not make sense are saying the opposite. If we think about all of this from Vladimir Panov, i.e. how he was cuffed and the press was there, where is the leak coming from? Is there really no way to figure this out? And what do you think the fate of this bill is?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U31	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U32	First, I want to protect the press. The press, when it has published secret recordings and whatever it is, has absolutely every right to do so. The press is supposed to publish everything he gets. And when the data leaks and the journalist gets to sleep, he has the right and obligation to publish the material received before Estonian society. If some kind of secret paper comes up, what's the journalist's duty? It's gotta go to the front page, and that's what he gets paid for. It must be the one who leaked the paper. Those responsible are those who have handed over the secret paper to the press or who have carelessly kept it and lost it. For example, if a police officer loses a secret piece of paper, it should be a tribunal. Losing a secret paper during a criminal investigation is, by its very nature, treason. What is this press release, all these recordings, and so on? You're right here. After all, by their very nature, the people who allowed or carried these recordings will attack the Estonian legal order, the foundations of the Estonian state. It must be followed by a criminal case. We know the recordings about Savisaar and the land change business. There's been some talk about whether or not somebody's slept with Daisy Tauk or something. I don't see any criminal cases, no one has gone to jail for that, if nothing else, for criminal negligence. An incompetent police officer has a place in a dung truck, not an officer's office. That's one side of it. The other side is, of course, the one who is interested. Disclamer: Being a member of the bar Association myself, I can say that in most cases the lawyer is not interested in this. How can I just say it now? In short, if my defendant is a criminal and I, as a lawyer, want him to be acquitted, then I wish it didn't work out, much less in the paper. The more beautiful he's lying and hiding, the easier it is for me to protect him, even though I can't tell him to lie. But if he hides nicely and disowns, I'm gonna spin my thumbs a little bit, and I'm gonna say, okay, that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U33	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U34	Thank you. Honourable performer! It's very exciting to listen to you, wise man. I now specifically ask that, if this amendment is adopted and the period of preliminary investigation is three months, it is not in the draft law, then, for example, should a civil servant be suspended by then. This was done to Edgar Savisaar, i.e. when nothing had happened yet, he was kicked out of the mayor's office.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U35	It is not a matter of time but of pre-procedural procedures. The law allows it, and it makes sense. In the case of a person in a position of responsibility who is the subject of criminal proceedings, there is a risk that he or she might have the opportunity and desire to destroy the evidence on which the case is based, to influence witnesses or to take completely different decisions as an administrative director. So such a step is not out of the question in itself. However, everything that has taken place in this case over the years goes under the general deadline, just like all the other things. I think the deadline should apply here too. That's what the bill says right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U36	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U37	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have the feeling that you have begun to defend those areas that you have also given examples of and which, according to practitioners, are most affected by corruption crimes, economic and drug crimes, because they obviously need to be investigated more seriously. As a practitioner to some extent, can you give examples of whether in some Western European countries there has been an increase? And could you compare, for example, Western Europe and Eastern Europe to what these trends are?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U38	It seems that this is a simple question, but it is not. I mean, in five-six countries, these stars are there, like in the United States, but there isn't anywhere else. This question relates to one other matter, and there is no need at all if the investigating bodies are subject to supervision. The point is that no one in the Republic of Estonia controls the prosecutor's office in any way. Remember, Reinsalu was telling a chain story here a month ago: that we have a chain to check that we control each other. But there's no civil control over the DA's office. The Minister of Justice is theoretically able to apply disciplinary action: 'Administrate General, why did you come to work at 9:30? Don't you know the day starts at 8:00? 'That's pretty much it. In this sense, we are talking about the first and only way in which the prosecutor's office could comply with Estonian law. Please note that he is really the only one we have no supervision of right now. Kapo is such an important body that there is a separate Commission for them. We're used to it being the President of the Supreme Court. We're talking to the Auditor General and the Chancellor of Justice. Everyone goes here. But the D.A. will never come! He's doing the right thing. Why would he come here? Nothing obliges him. I will give you the best example in answer: the United States, where the sheriff is elected. If the sheriff lets it go, he's not the sheriff anymore. I'm just going to give you the example that we all know: the US Attorney General Jeff Sessions went off like hell because Special Investigator Mueller, under the authority of the President, was entitled to dismiss the Attorney General. It's not a problem, and you realize it's only worth starting to mess with deadlines or something else, such as allowing a secret eavesdropping, and the Attorney General is no longer in office. That's what we don't have. To be honest, I am almost convinced that our public prosecutor's office in this small country does not need any supervision, just in the process itself there must be a peaceful, neutral and politically independent expression. By the way, I agree with you and whoever you want to argue with, whether it should be three, six or nine months. Yeah, it could be six or a half months. But it is only at second reading, not now. We are now deciding whether it is worth developing further on this issue. It's definitely a place to think, but it doesn't change the principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U39	Raivo Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U40	Thank you. Good waitress! Of course, the Hatter did not answer his question because it would be an uncomfortable answer. You started to spin on the US, even though the question was the comparison between Western Europe and Eastern Europe. This nostalgia of your Soviet Union is a little disturbing, you're quoting some Russian series here. You have, at least in the Committee on Legal Affairs and earlier in your recital, brought the reference moments of criminal proceedings during the Soviet Union: the need for deadlines that really existed during the Soviet period, but also the return of a concept such as 'investigation', which we no longer know for a long time and which is similarly taken from the criminal proceedings of the Council's Union. The initiators of the draft act have already, in a sense, labeled the purpose of this draft in social media and also in public media that they want to put heads on the prosecutor's office. This is probably not the real purpose of the Riigikogu that we are going to muzzle our Public Prosecutor's Office and put heads in their heads.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U41	First, I'll start with the last sentence. I mean, as strange as it may seem, you touched on a crucial subject. Mouthbrushing in a transferred sense is in itself an interesting idea. I don't think the initiation of a pre-trial investigation is a press conference. I think we should do something else. We're still running this story: kick off TV3 and start watching! An interview will be given as follows, an interview will be given as follows: one detective, though another, though the third, though the fourth. Saying that, I'm against muzzles. The prosecutor is also a citizen, no matter what, but don't pretend he's a professional. The professional will be silent, he will take the case to court and wait for the judgment. That's how professionals work. The required answer: it exists in six European countries and I see no system between East and West. Three, from the investigation. This is one of the highest achievements of the Russian courtship, as Cesare Lombroso said in 1870. The 1864 judicial reform introduced an investigation as such. What for? In order to distinguish technical police operations: seizure, search, sealing of the apartment, etc. And the other thing was a preliminary investigation that led to the jury. That was exactly what the French court wanted to follow Bentham's example, but the 1900s came. As far as the Soviet Union is concerned, I think the thief belongs in prison. And if anyone in the Soviet Union said that, I am very sorry, but I agree with the Soviet growth. It's not for criminals to run around free. And by the way, about putting a head on the DA's office. One person said that once. When I start regulating somebody's activities with the law, for example, I say that a bisnist must not start in Estonia in any way, but must go to the business register and the tax administration, so do I put on the bisnise heads? Sunshine! Imagine, he's got to pay taxes how horrible! [[Let's hear it in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U42	The round of questions continues. Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U43	Thank you, Vice President. Good waitress! Actually, it's kind of hard to ask after this question and the answer, but I'm still asking. The idea of bringing here this draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure is very good. I also think it is important to deal with this matter. Because of life, I too was an alternate on the Legal Affairs Committee when the matter was discussed. And frankly, I was astonished by the 'appillary' of the executive and judicial representatives that setting deadlines would end the investigation. Be good and comment on it again! Is it that critical? And the second question is about the so-called famous criminal cases. You said you'd give them an example because they're just known to the public. Are they a violation of good practice in criminal investigations or of court practice, how is it compared to the practices in other countries? And thirdly, aren't there any manifestations or grounds here for trying to influence the public and the court?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U44	You know what, let's not go on people right now, let's put the analysis of the prosecutor's office aside in practice and as colleagues. After all, most people do their job well, normally, and with a conscience. There's no point in convicting the authorities. In the same way, it is absurd to say that all judges are good or bad, or that the entire Estonian legal system I have, by the way, heard here is unfair. That's not true. Just as there is a good plumber, there is a good prosecutor. And just as there is a whisper-segment, there are people in the DA's office who just can't reach their place, and that's it. It's inevitable. So in this case, it is not a question of who and how. It's a very bad thing for a legal professional to admit, but the fact is there are bad judgments. I know Aegis doesn't like America, but it's a country I feel. In America, about 300 people have been reported innocently sentenced to death for more than 200 years. They weren't guilty of anything, but they were sent to the electric chair. And have been released from those who are actually guilty and who, which, worst of all, after committing new crimes. That's what we're seeing. Look at the same stories that come to us through 'The Moon Explorer' or wherever: new crimes are committed when released from prison. In other words, we're people everywhere. In short, it is actually that, by setting these deadlines or the term principle, we are, to a certain extent, closing one of the gaps that exist in the law and the system. But after that, decisions don't work. Decisions are also good and bad after that, more or less in the same proportion, but we will avoid those personal rights violations that occur in relation to deadlines. Look, there's another nuance for the court and the prosecutor's office. I said no one's checking the DA's office. It's not quite accurate, the prosecutor's office is controlled by a court. As soon as the file is in hand and the prosecutor goes to trial, the court will check the quality of the prosecution's work. Only it needs to be borne in mind that if a trial is postponed, the DA's office will postpone control of itself because he knows he's going to court, which means control. So he's gonna postpone it and wait until he looks good for control. That's one thing. The other thing is that the court is interested in the crime he's looking for the criminal's guilt, considering the evidence, etc., he's not in control of the prosecution's office. It doesn't matter to the court who was investigating how and when he was studying, etc. He's an important criminal. It's his research subject. So, to some extent, this set deadline closes this gap and, in principle, the representatives of the prosecutor's office understood it very well in the softest way possible. I mean, minimal interference, but there's a legal limit. That's the point. Is it increasing or decreasing in volume? Consider this example. If we have a thousand crimes a year, the order in which you study them, or how you study them, doesn't change that number: a thousand will still be a thousand. This is not why the number of crimes will not increase or decrease. In order to reduce the number of crimes, we were also talking about this in the Committee on Legal Affairs, there are other ways: decriminalising some minor matter, or bringing it out of court, in order to give the court the opportunity to deal with serious matters. But this is a completely different matter of substantive law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U45	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U46	Thank you. Thank you, good waitress, for this excellent presentation and draft, which really brings Estonian laws more into line with human rights and gives a person the opportunity of a fair trial and excludes the use of 'criminal proceedings' as punishment. But my question is that, if the procedural deadlines were never abolished, it was justified by the fact that the quality of the investigation would increase very strongly. How about looking at the last 15 to 17 years when those deadlines aren't there? Has the quality of the investigation really increased in any way, or rather the opposite of our criminal proceedings, been transformed into some kind of soap show?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U47	First of all, I find this motivation for ending deadlines very difficult to understand, because I did not live in Estonia at that time and, to be honest, I did not plan my future in Estonia very much either. I wasn't technically monitoring where it came from, but I know the motive. Remember when it was the national romantic rise and the Popular Front? By the way, also today retired Indrek Koolmaster and Rait Maruse were among them. You see, at that point, everything was so romantic and beautiful that we just blindly believed that we didn't need any legal limits, or at least we didn't think about it, because we're good people. The way it was here: we don't do what they used to do! What do you mean, whether or not there are deadlines means old Soviet shackles, etc. After all, we are a new generation: we are others and good people! What was next was thought, I don't know, because, as I said, I wasn't in Estonia then. And I find it very difficult to say whether or not the quality of the investigation increased because I do not have Soviet statistics. However, the fact is, what I checked from my colleagues, who are my peers, 66 years old or older than me, 67 to 68 years old, bizarre and truly brutal old criminal lawyers (keywords: murderers, rapists, corpses, blood in front and blood behind), the so-called iron lawyers and who knew that this topic would come up here. In fact, a lawyer named Kalev Bachmann said one of those phrases that they were proxies, whatever the villains, but the deadlines were respected. And by the way, Leon Glikman, who was one of the supporters of the current bill, said that the totally brutal ultra-kommar was Karl Kimmel, who was the Prosecutor General of the Estonian SSR. He also said he was Kimmel, which he was, but the files weren't lying around. And Glikman added: 'My heart is not bleding for him. " Because the bastard is a bastard, there's nothing to do. So you can't take all this outside the general context. Although, if you really think about it a little bit, look at how much the legal investigation technique has gone forward in 20, 25, 30 years. You don't need to write manually anymore. By the way, what was the first task of an advocacy director? He sat for a year and wrote it by hand, just in case, stressing that hand-to-hand files were converted. So this was the technique, and let's put the Internet next to it. Putting the file under surveillance meant going to the Tondi tram and driving, i.e. going after the file. It ran through that prints were checked with a magnification glass during Sherlock Holmes. Hello, the prints were checked with a magnification glass in 1990! The blood sample was determined by a blood type. We have a DNA test now. I will be very, very brief about how time has progressed. I highly recommend that you read the books of a writer, Professor Andres Anvelt, who wrote about these old times of study. Andres, as a former policeman, has in his books the whole story about how these things went. And I'm saying that our modern society's research technology, e-files, all kinds of tracking methods, etc., allows us to work better and faster than we do now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U48	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U49	Good manager! Good waitress! In the Committee on Legal Affairs, I heard the opinions of the prosecutor's office, the defence police, the police and the Ministry of Justice that when this draft is implemented, money laundering men, corruptions and other pervs will feel free and it will be completely destroyed. But they didn't talk about money for a reason. The previous Attorney General Norman Aas once made it very clear that the question is about money: the prosecutor's office has little money, so it is not possible to investigate so much. The prosecutors' salary we recently raised, you remember, the Minister of Justice came out with it. After that, it turned out that the salary of senior civil servants was actually increased, even though the initial impulse was to raise the pay of prosecutors. And my question is how much it would cost for the DA to agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U50	First of all, I have always voted and will continue to vote in favour of raising the salaries of law enforcement agencies and improving working conditions. Officers' salaries must be high and prosecutors' salaries must be high. There's gotta be enough money to get more. The Committee on Legal Affairs also ran through this issue, and I am prepared to repeat it. If the implementation of this law means an additional need for resources, the recruitment of more people, then I think it is our duty to do so. We cannot demand more than that if we do not provide the corresponding resources. Secondly, you touched one thing that goes a little too far. The point is, paradoxically, we have a very large part of the investigation conducted by the police, not the prosecutor's office. The DA's office is supervising, but the police are investigating. I think that increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of criminal investigations requires, in particular, an increase in police resources. In fact, we are not talking about those policemen who are on the street, who are doing the protocol, but we are talking about those policemen who are often sitting in the office and are really conducting this investigation. I have the impression that there are really people missing. We don't notice those office cops, but they've got a bigger end of the investigation. All that remains is to repeat that I think you also agree that there is really a need to increase the membership and salaries of the police and the prosecutor's office. But I guess when that law goes on, it starts to figure out how these loads and everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U51	Valdo Randpere, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I want to protect the DA's office for an introduction. You were talking...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U53	But no one's attacking him.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U54	... very exciting about how the tools and techniques of prosecutors have improved, but also the equipment and equipment of criminals have improved, ex-there is a certain arms race and a race going on. So I fully understand that today, when crime has gone online, it may be more difficult to investigate things, but I think there might be some deadlines. I agree the thief's place is in prison, but the question is, how soon should the thief be in prison? If, for example, theft is punishable by two years in prison, but theft is investigated for five years, then he has come together for seven years. The European Court of Human Rights states that the reasonable period of proceedings is five years. Could there really be some kind of logic here that this deadline could be linked to the length of the sentence? For example, if the penalty for bribery is five years in prison, could the procedure last for a maximum of five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U55	A brilliant idea, where were you before? This is the place on which it would be worth thinking before the second reading that the period of proceedings would be related to the maximum length of the sentence: the shorter it is, the shorter the procedure is, and vice versa. By the way, if we're talking about the fact that the investigation has gotten more complicated, there's an optical effect that needs to be corrected. We'll take one lawyer's weekend: 30,000 pages of the 40,000-page file he didn't need, because there were just listening things he, fortunately, was forced to work through. The facts weren't in there, but they were trashed on the file. Today, too, we hear that 20,000 pages need to be worked out. To that I say, 'Hello, what conclusion do we draw from this? ' This means that there are two important pages missing, no evidence, if there are 20,000 pages in the file. Let's go to the same bribe. The bribery story is very simple: I give the officer the money for which the official does what I need to do. One fact is the transfer of money and the other is the provision of a favor. What's so complicated? As far as the land change was concerned, it was already underway. The Estonian Express published an article that we are now going to take out land change men. This meant that there were no more new crimes. The maximum was that one land changer said to another, "It's over, shut up now! ' Zero, nichts! In other words, from that moment on, criminal activity ceased. I mean, you have everything you need. Land change isn't some kind of horse parry. All the land exchange information is on computers: who sold, sold, exchanged, land register, etc. in hand! Money travels in your hand! What more do you need to do? Perhaps this is a bit of an exaggeration, but I think that land change has been one of the easiest things in Estonia ever. It would have been necessary to take a 12-year-old snothead who would have put these things together on the computer for ice cream, because everything's there. It wasn't supposed to be crawling in the bushes with a flashlight and seeing who Reiljan gave something to. It wasn't necessary, but it took five years. So, in other words, about this volume caption, yes, the study is getting more complicated. But I think that this is not an increase in work, but an increase in intelligence: the prosecutors and the police must get smarter. The fight between criminals and rights defenders, normal people, is a brain competition. It's also a value contest. It doesn't matter how many nights you're standing at someone's door. Just one detail (after forgets): Nuremberg's trial of Nazi criminals, preliminary investigation from November 1945 to October 1946. The Nuremberg process was pre-investigated for 13 months. Now put it over here!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U56	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Igor, it's just enjoyable to listen to you! You also mentioned a word like "treason." I'm gonna grab it, and I'm gonna freak out here a little bit. What seems to me to be a real treason is that we have certain searches and arrests with cameras. The press has previously received information, rushes in, reports, and attempts to interview unhappy people who are already shocked by the fact that black cars have come to them with masked men, etc. This is, in my opinion, treason, because this is not the way to deliver those institutions whose task is to protect constitutional order. It is quite obvious that information about what is to come has come from these sources. But the question is different: would it be possible to choose prosecutors, judges and police prefects in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U58	A very difficult question, that would require a change in the whole legal tradition. But I think in the case of police prefects, that would actually be an option, not for prosecutors. They themselves say that they are independent, but let's say that the relatively independent prosecutor's office is a tradition in our judicial area. As a conservative person, I wouldn't be too willing to change that. In the case of police prefects, I think you're right: community, or community, should basically have the right to say who is a good constable and who isn't. But the problem is, we're not gonna have enough anyway, and if we start picking again, I'm afraid we're gonna miss the last ones. However, I really want to thank you once again for pointing out that the law enforcement authorities' 'cooperation' with the press. This situation, where information leaks to the press and the press gets involved in the active investigation process, is, in my opinion, deeply illegal. I think this is where such behaviour should be criminalised. Somewhere in the DA's office and the defense police, there are people who are responsible for this, and they should take responsibility for it, their punishment. In fact, not from the office around the corner, but so that the whole of Estonia would know: with the help of this brother or sister, information was leaked that does not belong to the public. I defend the press once again: it is not his duty to protect, it is his job to publish all things. But we've gone too far with this. Perhaps it's a little consolation that basically it's not just our problem. We know that in a number of famous French, English and the same US cases, it must not be called, as has indeed been the case with the Soviet Union, that it will not be searched until the light is in place. In the case of one of Estonia's specific cases, which I would not like to recall, this was the case: light was given to the place and then a black car arrived. Well, that's right!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U59	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U60	Thank you, good vice chairman. Waitress! If I'm watching what's going on in this hall, I'll remember the metaphor in Heaven, you'll see, but you won't thunder! '. This is a trap for the work of the Riigikogu, which you have also gone into. We are dealing with the effect, but we are not dealing with the reason why, for example, you do not consider the deadline to be reasonable. Why have you not gone along with the idea that the nature of the work of the Riigikogu should be changed so that it can react independently to the origins of problems and find solutions together? We are now a government vassal; we are not able, for one reason or another, to change budgets ourselves, for example. You even gave an example of Kripo's activities, which we have dealt with several times in this Chamber. Between 2015 and 2016, only eight people dealt with economic crimes. This is not the way we can deal with corruption and other economic crimes throughout Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U61	To be honest, I didn't see any connection to economic crimes here. But while you were on the subject, all right, let's talk about corruption, even though it's not the subject of this bill. We must, in principle, decide whether we can accept a situation where we have a fragmented investigation of economic crimes and a lack of a common system of investigating economic crimes, divided between crippo, the economic police and the kapo, between which all counterintelligence functions, etc. In this situation, it is also perfectly logical that we do not have a common policy to combat economic crime. But we've done it. What we're talking about, after all, comes up with corruption-case, i.e. the fight is on and the system is working. As regards this claim that we are a government vassal, I do not agree with this frankly. But suppose you're right to stress that I disagree with this, then this bill is a little bit of an uprising test: the vassal is trying to get a little bit more free. What else can I say?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U62	Raivo Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U63	Thank you. I thank you for this very emotional and theatrical answer to the previous question. It was enjoyable. However, I do not agree that the whole of the old Europe is deliberately and consciously trampling on human rights because they have not set deadlines for criminal proceedings. I also understand that in a way, you have chosen a side that you do not hide, you say you are a lawyer and a lawyer. But the Bar Association usually protects the accused in criminal proceedings. However, it is the duty of the state to protect all its citizens, including the victims. The victim's representative in criminal proceedings is usually a state prosecutor. So we must also be able to ensure a balance here so that the interests of both the accused and the victim are equally protected. If the interests of the victim are not protected because the criminal proceedings are due to expire, should the State invent some kind of compensation mechanism so that the interests of the victim are equally protected and represented?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U64	Thank you. I'll come back to what you're saying. I mean, Raivo and I have had a real argument on the Äripäev radio. And just because we act like this from time to time isn't about us being some kind of opponent. We're all on the right side. We're just such awesome brothers, and that's it. But I'm gonna fix your words, which, by the way, you ran through here before. I've used them wrong myself. Let over a reasonable period of time, this pair of words'shot over' is bad. In that sense, I don't really agree with you either. I don't think there's a guy sitting at the DA's office or the police, wondering how we can stall one more thing. That's psychologically impossible, because if I slow it down, I'm gonna have to do the next thing. The pay doesn't go up, but there's a pile ahead. So I don't think anyone's doing anything here on purpose, but that's why we need this amendment. There's no gap in people, there's a gap in the law. This loophole is objectively present in the regulation of the law, and people live within the limits of the laws they have. Now, the victim is a very important subject. Firstly, lawyers also represent victims to some extent, of course, prosecutors, but generally also lawyers. And that mechanism is there. The name of this case is civil action in criminal proceedings, in other words, the recognition of civil damages. Civil damages may not be linked to a specific criminal case decision because the grounds for civil liability and criminal liability differ. Civil liability is based on damage, which may also be non-criminal in relation to this act, while criminal penalties require the existence of guilt in the event of suspicion in another sense. So you can't say someone's unprotected. But if you think we should think of anything else, then what the hell?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U65	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U66	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress Igor! I will come back to this matter of responsibility and control, but I will draw attention to one thing first. It was about the exchange of land and the wiretaps. After all, we saw in America, in Trump's example, an excuse was found to listen to people for months or years, not just to learn things about a specific charge, but also all the other necessary things. Raivo Time here was talking about protecting people. Yes, until the conviction of the court, there is a presumption of innocence, and people must also be protected from the arbitrary use of state authority. In Estonia, the process tends to be a punishment. But here's my question. We're not talking about muzzles or shags. As far as I know, the prosecutor's office is not a constitutional institution, but a state institution. And if he's not checked at all, where does his legitimacy come from? We have to have a control mechanism. Unlike the rest of continental Europe, we do not have such a control mechanism, so we need to use a different option, i.e. to set time limits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U67	Yeah! Look, this last thing I've tried to say a few times, but you said better. I mean, we don't have any, I insist, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I would like to add that we do not want to, personally, and those who signed here, to introduce such checks, for example, in the form of a special investigation or a Commission. Let the DA's office be what it is. Thus, setting a deadline is a very simple, very clear and, by the way, non-essential measure to the content of the work of the prosecutor's office. Suppose we go another way and, for example, do some sort of committee. Why don't you make some sort of commission that doesn't get involved in specific matters? Is that what we want? Certainly not in the context of separation of powers and the independence of the prosecutor's office. So this proposed measure is the most lenient option, which is at the same time clear-cut and harsh. There was also a question about the election and these things. And what's the hypothesis? We really need to talk about this separately. I can imagine what kind of problem could arise. But what if the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor of the Republic of Estonia were the same person as the Attorney general in the United States? Would the investigation suffer for this? No, but it would increase responsibility. I know, of course, that it is said that the Riigikogu will then be told in advance and will do so, the second and the third. By the way, it wouldn't be so bad if the head of the investigating institution came here from time to time and realised that there was a law, people, Riigikogu, etc. But this is the hypothesis place. So I repeat: the only, very gentle and non-intrusive, or non-interventional, regulation of the prosecution's activities is now before us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U68	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U69	Good manager! Good waitress, you said the court actually controls the quality of the prosecution's office. At the same time, it is clear that eight out of ten people come out of this pipe as a criminal. And with that, we're talking about a competitive process where there's a prosecutor on one side and a lawyer on the other side, and the presumption of innocence is that until someone's convicted, he's not guilty. How do you understand all this? Consequently, the work of the prosecutor's office is excellent: eight out of 10 people who have been questioned are out of the process as a criminal criminal. The pre-trial investigation is going to last as long as it takes, but we're going to start setting some deadlines here. So, what's it gonna be like with this competing process anyway? It should be the case that in half the cases, a person does not become a criminal criminal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U70	I think that's one mistake the state attorney general makes repeatedly in all his performances. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to talk about it. He himself doesn't notice that he's making the mistake. In fact, he doesn't happen to do it by accident, but he repeats and repeats and repeats without thinking exactly what he's saying. The point is that the prosecutor's office is proud that the percentage of conviction is 95, which in fact shows the extremely low quality of the prosecution's work. It is the duty of the Public Prosecutor's Office to ensure that all the evidence that justifies a person is also collected: all kinds of alibis and similar things. The Office's work is not about prosecution, revenge or repression. The public prosecutor's office serves the state and justice, and according to the statistical probability already, the percentage of acquittal decisions should be significantly higher. That being said, I would like to stress that if the prosecutor's office sends a properly investigated case to a court and the court acquiescies the person, this is a high quality feature of the work of the prosecutor's office. Quality is not demonstrated by conviction, quality is demonstrated by the right decision. Apparently, there's something psychologically out of place inside the DA's office. Even if the conviction rate was 95, you shouldn't brag about it. It's a number worth hiding somehow. 95%! What if the Estonians are criminals like that? There must be an explanation. I think this is one of the places where a significant increase in quality is not caused by any regulation of the law, but by breaking the psychological climate inside the prosecutor's office. They must know that they are not executioners or bailiffs, but are servants of righteousness. And justice has two faces: acquittal and convicting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U71	Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U72	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! We had a lot of professionals in our field over at the Legal Affairs Committee. One report showed five moments that will get worse if this draft passes through the second and third readings in its unchanged form. Firstly, an important part of the serious crimes of corruption would not be investigated. Secondly, it would have an impact on the wider environment of external and internal security. Thirdly, the quality of the procedure would suffer. Fourthly, there would be a sense of impunity among criminals, increased crime, and security and state security. Fifthly, criminal proceedings would be more costly, as more resources would be needed for criminal registration, empty procedures and bureaucratic procedures. These are the five moments highlighted by a professional in his presentation in the Commission. We had two hours, and at this bill we stood and discussed, but you didn't have a chance to answer. Give it to me now!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U73	Okay, all five at once? I didn't even remember them, but let's just get started. Yeah, there were professionals in the field! I mean, there were all the representatives of the criminal investigation or those who are against this bill. We saw this whole company at a table, and it was very instructive. There was the police, there was the Ministry of Justice, there was the defense police, there was the prosecutor's office, they were all there. They were all like one man! In short, I had heard this statement by Villu Reiljan that there is legal lobby in Estonia and so on. Honestly, I didn't believe it, but at the same time I saw it physically at the table. That's where it was! And on the other hand, let's say in a conditional way that, as representatives of the law or as initiators, we were present with Liisa Oviir. There was Aivar Cloud from the outside. Glikman was an arbiter, he couldn't make it. Now from these individual points. First of all, I will correct what you said when this bill is adopted unchanged. I don't think we'll ever accept it unchanged. After completing the first reading, we have quite enough time to make the necessary changes. Part of it's already sounded like it. It's just a question of whether we're going on with this. Secondly, the sense of impunity for criminals does not depend on how quickly someone is convicted. The only thing that matters to a criminal is not to get caught. He rarely thinks about what happens after he's caught, because it's basically too late. And by the way, even then, it's in the criminal's best interest to get this thing out of the way quickly than to keep it dragging on forever. It is summed up by a Russian term The principle is: 'Ranshe sjadješ, ranches butterješ', or 'the sooner you go to jail, the sooner you come out'. So this is the mentality of criminals. How does this affect security? I can't imagine. It is not just corruption crimes that are delayed. Most of the corruption things I mentioned here aren't that complicated. By the way, killing was an example of a complex crime in the Commission. I don't remember who this guy was, but he was sitting on my right hand. As far as I know, he was police. He said that, for example, in the case of a homicide, it could take a lot of months to observe the scene. Those who have watched the Midsomer murders, even once, know that the crime scene needs to be investigated immediately. Maybe one of you saw that horrible story about the Paldiski murders last night. "The Spectator" interviewed a police officer whose name I don't remember. He said that what hasn't been found at the scene in 48 hours will never be found. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the senior police officer said. So how could a sense of security arise in this context? By the way, one more thing. This is a complex answer to all these questions simply to save time. We can come to the individual details later. Look, the thing is, thieves and corrupts have to go to jail, but in the rule of law, they're bound by the rules that the law has established. We have given neither the police nor the prosecutor's office the rights of a revolutionary tribunal. Understand what you want, back up whatever you want, or do whatever you want. It was about a search. This so-called fishing is an old story: we're going to search just in case something happens. The current Code of Criminal Procedure has improved this situation and it is not so bad anymore. All the provisions relating to surveillance activities have, in my opinion, been, if not ideal in our laws, significantly improved. Only, in the light of these dramatic events, we have forgotten the small but important technical error that we are talking about today. That's the answer now. But when it comes to resources, you need them, like I said. If we're gonna give the investigators responsibilities, they're gonna have the right to ask us for money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U74	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Since it was enjoyable sharing thoughts and answering questions, I would like to say come back soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U75	I have to come up with something new.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U76	The Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Kariliid, will present the panel's report.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U77	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The representative of the initiator of the draft act was able to speak according to a very free plan. As chairman of the committee, I have to follow up on the minutes that we have written down there. The representative of the initiator of the draft act presented the content of the draft, but I will give a comprehensive overview of what we discussed with the various parties at the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. During the meeting on 8 February, the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Justice Kristel Siitam-Nyir, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure Tanel Kalmet, State Attorney General Lavly Perling, Judge Juhan Sarv of the Circuit Court of Tartu, Legal Adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Marju Aibast, Members of the Riigikogu Igor Gräzin and Peeter Ernits, Attorney General Aivar Pilv as a representative of the Estonian Bar Association, Head of the Department of Development and Criminal Procedure of the Police and Border Guard Board Toomas Loho, Head of the Office for Corruption Crime of the Central Criminal Police Department Mati Ombler, Deputy Director General of the Defence Police Department Martin Arpo and Head of the office Olari Valtin. This is a real example of how comprehensively we tried to deal with this draft in the committee. Igor Gräzin, the representative of the initiator of the draft act, explained to the Commission and experts that the purpose of the amendment was to set certain time limits for pre-trial proceedings in criminal proceedings. They would help to prevent violations of human rights, since, after all, the personal freedoms of people in the event of excessive pre-trial proceedings are severely restricted over a longer period of time. Specific time limits for pre-trial investigations would be the form of monitoring the activities of the prosecutor's office. This was a brief review from the point of view of the initiator's representative, which was already presented very thoroughly in advance. The prosecutor's position was that the deadline for proceedings in Estonia is a reasonable period of procedure which ensures the flexibility and staffing of criminal proceedings. The aim is for all investigative bodies to have a reasonable time limit and for criminal proceedings to be swift, efficient and flexible. The prosecutor's office also pointed out some statistics. As a result of the amendments to the Penal Code which entered into force in September 2016, the number of arrested has fallen by one fifth. In particular, the number of arrested in pre-trial proceedings has decreased: at the turn of the year there were 198, but on 1 July 2016 there were 365. The average duration of custody of minors is 1.5 months. According to the Attorney General, the speed of pre-trial proceedings has increased considerably. Indeed, there is no need to ask the court for an extension of detention for crimes of first instance for more than six months, for offences of second degree for more than four months and for offences of minors for more than two months. Some 27,000 crimes were registered in 2017. More than 10,000 cases are currently under way and a total of 5800 suspects in Estonia, including 267 of them, have been suspected for more than two years. The state of the proceedings shall be regularly evaluated. According to the Attorney General, the prosecutor's office wants to increase the speed of the proceedings and is looking for ways to do this, for example through digital means. If time limits are to be set, we need to consider which matters to deal with and how closely we examine them. This was briefly the position of the prosecutor's office. The lawyer's point of view was that, despite the digital tools available to the investigating authorities and the other possibilities provided by law, many pre-trial procedures are still too long. There are cases in court that have lasted more than six years. During the last three or four years, the speed of judicial proceedings in criminal matters has fallen considerably. The lawyer admitted that it was difficult to assess the length of the period of proceedings and how to regulate it. It would need to be analyzed, but there could still be limits. The Ministry of the Interior, the representative of the Central Criminal Police, Mati Ombler, gave an overview of the statistics on corruption crimes and what time it takes to deal with them. Here are a dozen reasons, and I would also like to mention some of them: procedural reasons, obtaining replies to inquiries, activities related to surveillance activities, procedures relating to certifiers, procedures related to interrogations, translation work, bringing actions and claims. What are the conclusions of the mid-criminal police expertise or analysis that would happen if draft 551 were to enter into force in its current form? They have highlighted a number of consequences: the quality of the procedure is suffering as well as the resolution of hidden crimes, cases related to economic crimes, the incidence of political and serious corruption in the country is increasing significantly, organised crime is gaining momentum. It has also been pointed out that the country receives bad attention from international organisations, which also highlighted the damage to the country's credibility. In the opinion of the Defence Police Representative, a very precise distinction should be made between the length of time a particular criminal case has been under investigation and the length of time it has taken for judicial proceedings. The length of time spent in court proceedings has often been much longer than in pre-trial proceedings. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the draft, attention should therefore be paid to judicial proceedings. In practice, it would not be possible to complete the investigation of certain types of more complex and serious crime within the deadlines proposed in the draft. And then there were the five other observations that I mentioned earlier on a question to the author of the draft. The representative of the Tartu Circuit Court did not support the draft, but considered that citizens' rights should not be violated by lengthy procedures resulting from the lack of resources of the state. First of all, we should look at how many detectives and prosecutors we have and how many criminal cases each detective and prosecutor has at work. It would then be possible to assess the need for additional resources for both investigators and prosecutors. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu did not support the draft. The Ministry of Justice intends to put forward proposals on how to increase the speed of the procedure. According to the Minister of Justice, last year's statistics on criminal proceedings suggest that we had the best efficiency of criminal proceedings ever: 5% more cases were processed during the year. Currently, in pre-trial proceedings, no case has been passed for four years and there are 150 investigations that have lasted more than two years. The Minister accepted the opinion that in view of the procedural deadlines set out in the draft, some pre-trial proceedings in criminal matters would not be possible. The nature of some criminal cases may lead to longer proceedings. Estonia has chosen a model for the central European prosecutor's office: the Ministry of Justice supervises the prosecutor's office, but does not supervise procedural cases. Since 2016, there has been a working group on the review of criminal proceedings, which has found that the system should be made more flexible, thus achieving efficiency. More or less the same was confirmed by the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, who spoke once more about the work of the Audit Committee. A representative of the police and border guards supported the positions of the Prosecutor General and the Defence Police. The Police and Border Guard Board estimates that the economy and fair competition would be the biggest setback by the entry into force of the draft. Children would also suffer. The proposed deadlines would have the greatest impact on investigations into serious hidden crimes, money laundering incidents and crimes against children. The members of the Commission asked the representatives and experts who had come to the Commission whether they had concrete proposals to amend the laws that would help simplify and speed up the procedure. It was asked to explain how problems could be solved without setting procedural deadlines in a situation where everyone has actually recognised the problem. Interest was expressed in the procedural practice of other countries and in the time limits laid down by the laws of other countries. The Commission found it elementary that the fundamental rights of all parties must be guaranteed in the rule of law: those of the accused, suspects and victims. The fundamental rights of the victim can be guaranteed by a thorough investigation in criminal proceedings. It is important that the rights of both the victim and the suspect are guaranteed as quickly as possible, and that all parties in the Committee on Legal Affairs have acknowledged this really must strive for faster solutions. And in order to achieve this, a holistic approach must be taken to solving the problem. According to practitioners and experts, the search for and development of new solutions will be carried out in the Task Force on the Review of Criminal Procedure, where input has been provided and passed on by all relevant authorities. The Committee on Legal Affairs also issued procedural decisions at its meeting: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 February (the members of the committee were consensually in favour), to propose that the first reading be closed (by 7 members of the Committee on Legal Affairs: Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Liisa Oviir, Taavi Rõivas, Toomas Paur and Valdo Randpere, against 2 members: Külliki Kübarsepp and Raivo Aeg, impartial 1: Urve Tiidus), to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 16 a.m. (consensually) and to appoint Jaanus Karilaid as rapporteur. I'm gonna bring some statistics in front of this big hall. The DA's office will be happy to share such material. On page 12 of the 2017 Summary, this is an overview: 'Over two years of proceedings in criminal matters according to the area of work of the prosecutor's office'. In the Southern region, 20 cases have been pending for more than four years, in the western region 5, in the northern region 42, in the State Prosecutor's Office 5, and in the Viru region 25, there are 97 cases in total. The number of cases that have been pending for two or three years and three or four years has been highlighted separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U78	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Please, Raivo Time on behalf of the Isamaa Res Publica Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U79	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I had absolutely no intention of coming here today to express my stand, but hearing the debate that took place in this Chamber, and one of the parties, i.e. the investigating institutions, I mean the police, the prosecutor's office and the defence police, in a sense of understatement and labelling, I considered it my duty to come here as the former police leader and head of the defence police. I would like to say that it is very disturbing and very unpleasant to hear this approach and to see this attitude towards our procedural institutions in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. After all, there are our high MEPs who have been elected because of the mandate of the people. I have already referred to the Constitution in my question. § 13 of the Constitution says: "Everyone has the right to the protection of the state and the law. " This means that everyone has that right. It's not just the accused and the suspect, it's the victim. The state or municipality may have been affected, up to the individual. We have, here today, presented, as facts, examples of which no one has given concrete assurance. What we have been talking about is the malicious leaking of pre-research material to the media, though the aims of media involvement. And it's been said all along that it's still been done by the police, the prosecutor's office, or the police. Igor Gräzin thought that these people should be imprisoned and sent to spread manure. I do not agree with this, knowing the specifics, working procedures and internal culture of the work of both authorities, both the police and the defence police, that such processes are taking place there. But I'm not gonna blame you here for doing this by the bartender. I do not know where this information has gone to the press, that there have indeed not been separate criminal proceedings; no one has been convicted of this in criminal proceedings. But maybe that's what we should do, start a surveillance procedure for such leaks, where the sources of the leaks have come from. Then we will once find out in the house and will no longer have to debate on the basis of any abstract opinions or bring them out to each other as scientifically justified facts. The way in which the criminal proceedings were described here is completely primitive and incompetent. The representative of the drafters misled us by interfering with Anglo-American and Continental European legal systems: once he took an example from one, once from another, creating a completely incorrect and inadequate picture for us. I don't want to go into the details, but there was also a discussion about the prosecution's oversight. Indeed, the prosecutor's office is in itself a multi-level organisation. The state prosecutor's office supervises the district prosecutor's offices, which does not mean that there is no overview of the activities of the state prosecutor's office at all and that there is no supervision. That's not true. The state prosecutor has repeatedly come to the Legal Affairs Committee to talk about his actions, priorities, problems, anything. Similarly, representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice have repeatedly visited the Kapo Commission. It was mentioned here that the kapoli is its own committee, but it is not just the kapo Commission. This is a security oversight committee: it is not only the people of the CPO that go there, it is also attended by representatives of other security authorities. However, the Security Authorities Act also imposes on this same Commission the obligation to supervise surveillance authorities, i.e. those in the police and the defence police who are carrying out criminal proceedings. And we have also repeatedly listened to the state prosecutor there, who has done exactly the same thing and reported on how they supervise surveillance activities, what the state of surveillance is and how they have been involved in the surveillance process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U80	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U81	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't planning on coming here to give a remote speech either, but listening to the debate and the previous speaker, you can't be silent. There is absolutely no doubt about one thing. It does not require a well-equipped eye, it is enough to have a deductive method and independent thinking ability to understand one very simple thing: Estonia is not a rule of law. We are clearly using law enforcement bodies as a political instrument. You can laugh, smile or protest here, but we'll give you a whole bunch of examples of how it is. Consider the example of Edgar Savisaar. Isn't this a political process? This is clearly a political process in which the process itself is a punishment. And the longer this process is, the harder the punishment. Let us give another example of the Bronze Night, when all rioters were allowed five years in prison. But after that, the state of Estonia paid damages to many of them: thank you for smashing downtown Tallinn! The Estonian state was generous, forgave them and paid the money. If it wasn't the implementation of a political decision through the courts, then what is it? Don't talk nonsense! In Estonia, law enforcement authorities are, of course, not always clearly politicised and used as an instrument for implementing a political line. Let's take the bronze man before he's taken out. My son Martin took a thorn to the bronze man's neck. What did the kapo do at the time? Tried to prevent the activity of activists: Jüri Estam was captured, the people who went to the Estonian capital to demonstrate their senses with the Estonian flag were removed. That's the rule of law we have. Let's shut the patriots down. Let's listen to the patriots. We'll stop the national forces from operating by all means possible. We deny the existence of a deep state. We deny deep state interference in politics. This is all ridiculous. What are you talking about? It's not all in the state of justice. By the way, it is extremely eloquent who fell to scream when I mentioned that the rule of law is at risk and the deep state is intervening in politics. I make only one deductive conclusion: those who were hurt, those who serve the deep state. If someone is trying to say that we do not have a deep state, because that is not possible in a democratic country, look at what is happening in the United States. After all, it has been made clear in black and white how the Obama administration initiated surveillance on the basis of the pretexts sought, in order to listen to political competitors and prevent them from gaining power. Do not tell me that there is nothing like this in a vassal state like Estonia! All the arguments put forward by the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs are, after all, the arguments of the deep state that their actions should not be hindered. Once again, these are the arguments of the deep state that their actions should not be hindered. Here's the problem with this bill. I would ask everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U82	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U83	Mr President of the sitting! The Free Party gave me the opportunity to give some opinions on this draft, which I recently expressed in a television show, as a group speech. It makes sense to say the same things here. The previous speaker was highly temperamental and used the word'state of the law' a great deal. Obviously, the word can also be used to describe it, if I do not like anything in our country, i.e. I say that this country is not the rule of law. But in general, the word'state of law' came into Estonian during the new independence and has two roots. One of them is the concept of 'rule of law' used in the Anglo-Saxon world, which no one can translate in any other way into Estonian, and the direct example of which is the German term 'Rechtsstaat', which means a certain state-ordering ideal. Similarly, other ideals, such as a nation state, a welfare state or a social state, have been set up. I am not going to talk for a long time here, but in general, the Estonian state's 'Rechtsstat' concept is the same as it is used in European languages. This does not mean, of course, that each of us should always like what is happening in Estonia. But now to the main point of the speech. In Estonia, the withdrawal from Soviet criminal law was quite slow and in several stages. The fundamental changes were made during the IX Riigikogu when a new Penal Code was adopted, which logically was followed by a new Code of Criminal Procedure. I myself didn't participate in the Code of Criminal Procedure at the time because I was in pretty bad health. And I can't tell you exactly when he came into force around 2005. Apparently, the transition was complicated enough. One of the changes that was made was a radically different approach to the way in which pre-trial investigations or pre-trial proceedings in the current sense of the term "Soviet term" were initiated. Indeed, there were deadlines in the old system. These were usually two months or two months' multiplieds of four months, six months, etc., and were added if necessary. If the time limits were no longer extended, the pre-trial investigation ended or was suppressed without a substantive acquittal or acknowledgment of innocence. The new Code transposed a whole other system based on the fact that there are no fixed time limits in pre-trial proceedings. However, there is a rather long and comprehensive list of the circumstances in which a decision must be taken to terminate the procedure. It is quite possible that we have now reached such a time when it is necessary to carry out a revision of the current Code and to see if these terminations are reasonably stipulated. However, there is also a paragraph that has deadlines for months, but it deals with detention during criminal investigations. Can I have more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U84	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U85	I do not think that there would be any more stretching of the criminal investigation in this age than it has been in any earlier periods of history, and it will probably not be possible to abolish it once and for all. If there is a way to shorten the period when someone is accused or suspected, I think it would be very welcome. But there is one thing I am quite sure about: the melting of two months or some other rigid deadlines into the current Code of Criminal Procedure will not succeed. They're not like two liquids you could put together to get a nice-tasting cocktail. Rather, these are things than mixing acid with base, which may result in a chemical reaction that wasn't even planned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U86	Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U87	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I must, unfortunately or fortunately, reassure Raivo Aeg, who is my double good colleague: a member of the Riigikogu on the one hand, and a colleague on the Committee on Legal Affairs on the other. No one is attacking our national institutions. On the contrary, Parliament is restoring its reputation and role. Parliament has the right to talk about responsibility. Parliament has the right to talk about responsibility at any level, not just about the responsibility of the politician, how he is accountable to his constituents. He also has the right to talk about the responsibility of the Defence Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court, where there are errors in the system, who leaks and manipulates, whether there is also a policy within the administration, whether the control of political governance has gone away from us and it is done somewhere else, not in Parliament. It is Parliament's right to hold a debate here. A debate cannot be considered to be an understatement, a mockery or a shut-off. On the contrary, with this debate we can propose amendments to the draft, make it better. Raivo, you know very well that several experts in their area of expertise on the Committee on Legal Affairs acknowledged this problem. There's a problem. Is the problem really that there is little resource? Is there a problem with training, wages or anything else, such as information movement, coordination? If Igor Gräzin gave ten examples here, then actually only one example is sufficient, which I will bring to you is enough of this Panov case to keep this subject on the table. In Panov's case, it later turned out that the person in the Supreme Court was right. As a result, coalition negotiations were paralyzed, internal policy and, in fact, the power union were influenced. So this one example should make us think about what was done wrong. This one case affected the governance of the State. Who did? Who leaked? Who manipulated you? Politicians have the right to ask these questions and receive answers. The representative of the initiator of the draft act has already reassured us that, in this form, this draft does not go to the third stage. In the meantime, it will certainly be polished and improved. In some ways, this is a very big step forward: this debate was launched in 2012 and by 2018 we have reached the point that one step has been taken and two more steps have to be taken. But it cannot be done in such a way that we begin to put words in each other's mouths that you may or may not speak. The strength of Parliament and democracy is when we talk about the matter and look for a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U88	Raivo Aeg's name was named and has the right to object. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U89	What I'm trying to say is that I don't need to be soothed I'm a calm person by nature. However, while Mr Karilaid has already given examples here, he should also have explained how one of the criminal proceedings executed the negotiations of the Government Union. That would have been pretty interesting to listen to.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U90	The negotiations are over. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 551. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 1 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U91	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act initiated by Jüri Adams, Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru and Monika Haukanõmme. Jüri Adams, the opening waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U92	Mr President of the sitting! I'll start this introduction as widely as possible. It is because there are different people among us and there are different assessments of whether Estonia's development is currently taking place well or badly, in the right or wrong direction, too quickly or not at all. One important waterfall will surely follow what is being watched. If the survey is based on economic prosperity, e.g. whether the country's total production is increasing and whether people's income is increasing, and whether life is becoming safer, then there may be some answers. But there are definitely other development scales. I belong to people who are not very satisfied with Estonia's current situation. This is also an explanation for why I am back here in the Riigikogu and I am in the Free Party Group. I think there are plenty of people who think that Estonia's current development is either stuck or Estonia is making a cancer move and going back. I have also thought about what these causes are then and have reached the most general view that the basic obstacles to our development are not from outside, rather are the various things that we should call mistakes made during the restored independence. One of them, perhaps the clearest, was the reason why Estonia needed to deal with administrative reform. It's pretty easy to explain. The mistake was that the restoration of the Republic of Estonia, during the VII Riigikogu and the Mart Laar governments, did not bring about an administrative-territorial reform, although, by the way, it was in the government programme at the time. It is now done, but I think the result is not very good, but it is a matter of its own. But not all mistakes were born in such a way as to be understood at first. The question of electoral circles is one such example. The current concept of electoral formation was adopted in the last Supreme Council. It was in April 1992, when the Constitution had not yet been approved in the referendum, but the Supreme Council was already thinking that it would probably be approved, and then the elections of the Riigikogu will be immediately ahead of us in the autumn, and that would require some sort of electoral law. It was adopted and established in the constituency, assuming that a proportionate electoral system should be put in place, as was the case. So the first paragraph of the law, which contained a list of such and such constituencies, existed in April 1992. Later, it has been included in all the variants of the Riigikogu Election Act and is still inside it. It is currently in § 6 of the Riigikogu Election Act. Who would have thought it would turn out to be a mistake at the time? Who would have been able to foresee in the spring of 1992 that a few decades later in Estonia there would be such a significant and rapid relocation of the population from one part of the country to another and abroad, that the formation of electoral circles and the distribution of mandates in a form that was initially considered natural would prove to be quite meaningless? That is how we are facing this situation now. As I said, there is now a list of 12 electoral districts in the law. This breakdown is essentially based on the current county boundaries. The counties, I recall, were originally the last Soviet divisions. Our capital Tallinn, in turn, is divided into three constituencies by district. Every time before the elections, the number of persons entitled to vote in the territory of all electoral districts shall be removed from the population register and distributed on the basis of the number of mandates in one or other electoral district. Since 1992, the trend has been that there has been a constant flow of people in the three electoral circles, and the number of mandates there has increased almost every time during the elections. These are the electoral district of Harju and Raplamaa and two Tallinn electoral districts. The third constituency of Tallinn has remained with the same number of mandates throughout this period. All the other eight electoral districts in Estonia have gone down the road. The result is that the electoral district with the lowest number of mandates had five mandates in Lääne-Virumaa and the largest was Harju- and Raplamaa with 14 mandates. So the difference is nine mandates, or if we look at the ratios, that difference is 2.8 times. Let me be clear: it is generally considered normal that electoral districts should not differ more than one-and-a-half times in terms of the number of mandates for the type of electoral systems we have. The draft we have put forward is actually typical of the kind of draft that, technically, should be initiated by the government. We have had two governments during this parliamentary period, but obviously both coalitions of government have had so much to do with other and more important things that they have not taken action. The small opposition group now reminds them of the work they have done. Our basic idea is that we will first give up this mistake made in 1992. Firstly, we will delete the section of the electoral code at all. Secondly, we will not base ourselves on existing county borders in the future, but on new municipalities and we will compactly group them, because it will no longer be possible to restore the system of more or less equal circles in a different way. Thirdly, in law, we set a cap and a minimum limit on the number of mandates. This would enable progress to be made towards the highest possible number of mandates for the electoral community. The situation has been complicated, first of all, by the change in the territories of the counties as a result of the administrative reform. About half of the counties remained as large as before, but the rest either grew or decreased. On this basis, we did some calculations and found that, in the current situation, what is likely to happen is that if electoral circles are not changed, there will be at least one change in the number of mandates in 2019. This is already shown in figures: Lasnamäe has one mandate in addition to the electoral district, and the number of mandates in the South-East Estonian constituency is also reduced by one. But the figures will only be set at the end of this year. In fact, the law says that once the election has been announced, it should take place at the end of the year, I do not know for sure, since the presidents have done so, it is likely that in November the number of residents entitled to vote will be reviewed as of the first day of the following month. So these figures have not yet been locked, and they will not be locked for almost three-quarters of a year. The threat that we are facing now is that if population displacement continues at the same pace and why it should not continue, it is likely that there will be two further changes in the mandate. In fact, the number of mandates in Lääne-Viru County falls to four, and Jõgeva County also loses one mandate. In this case, Harju- and Raplamaa should receive one mandate and another mandate should come to Tallinn. It is not easy to predict precisely. There is no certainty that this change in the three mandates will necessarily have to be made compared to 2015. One thing is certain, let us assume that there will be an amendment to the two mandates. The worst is, of course, the result that the smallest electoral district is four-mandated and the largest one is 15-mandated, which means that the number of mandates in the largest and smallest electoral district is already 3.8 times different. That's not very nice anymore. The political idea of our draft still has a few, I would say, bonuses that must be mentioned here. First of all, if Estonia were to succeed in launching electoral districts with a certain number of mandates, there would be a possibility that a nationwide list of our electoral system would disappear at all. My groupmate Andres Herkel has repeatedly put forward this idea, and he has called it the idea of open lists. This would become conceivable in this case; it is not technically feasible at present. The other thing is that the need for a threshold would disappear. The threshold has always caused quite a lot of problems, including the existence of a threshold which has hampered the emergence of local lists or local parties. Now a little bit about the theory of what this smallest size is supposed to be a normal electoral circle in Estonia. Looking at the practice of our parliamentary elections and those of our neighbouring peoples, I say that we are in a cultural space where it is normal that there are usually elected delegates from seven electoral lists in Parliament. Why is that, I am not going to speculate, but there are no signs that this number could be reduced. From this point of view, it would be good if each electoral district were to have such a large number of mandates that each of these seven lists of potentially seats in the Riigikogu could receive at least one mandate from each electoral district. So seven or eight mandates could be here. We can never say that the next or the next time, this number is not, for example, eight, so one could be in reserve. That's the question of the lower limit. The question of the upper limit is not very important for the election of the Riigikogu. However, as demonstrated by the increase in the size of local government communities during the administrative reform, the new municipalities have councils in the order of 25 to 35 seats and these representatives are elected in a single constituency. There are a number of very bad consequences, which I have already spoken about in this debate on another draft. The only thing that can be repeated here is that it completely grazed the admission of local activists to the councils of the larger municipalities. One question that is being raised is that Estonia has been in the habit of not changing electoral laws less than one year before the elections. This is a good custom indeed, although we have quite a few different examples. For example, in 1998, changes were made to the electoral law, which apparently aimed at enabling the Reform Party to achieve a better result. They were made in mid-November of the year before the election, and this was quite acceptable at the time. I would argue that if there were enough political will in the Riigikogu Hall right now, we could boldly change the electoral section of the electoral law, say, until the summer break. Nothing bad would happen. The moral justification is the emergency I described earlier. It's a national emergency. Finally. If the governments and government coalitions operating during this Riigikogu had been statesmanly, all these things should have been done and I should not have presented you with this draft today. However, since this has not been done, and since I now understand that those members of the Riigikogu who have set themselves up for re-election prefer that there should be no change in the electoral district that has become their own, it is clear that there is no political will here. That is why there is one political proposal: if this is not the case for the 2019 elections, let us do it for the next Riigikogu, for the next elections! We would release the next Riigikogu from the need to do so. Once again, there is the risk that it will remain at the end of working hours, that it will not be done soon enough, and then perhaps someone will have to start to think of the same thing that is now before us. So this is the call: let us make this mistake and make a reasonable correction to that mistake! If we have made this correction, even if it only comes into force in five years' time, Estonia's stagnation would have been eliminated in at least one particular area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U93	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We all know that very many of our compatriots live far away from Estonia. To what extent and exactly how would this bill change or affect the number of electoral circles and mandates, for example, for these Estonians?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U95	The answer is no. The subject was deliberately restricted in the process of drafting it. Not because it's not a problem. This problem exists and it is a completely screaming problem. At the moment, our electoral law is not based on real living people, but on the number of different types of entries in the population register. There are currently 85000 entries in the population register that say that these people live permanently outside Estonia, that they are permanently outside. They, in turn, divide into two groups. Some have been associated with some of the current particular constituency in the population register. There are two grounds for this association: whether they have been external Estonians for a long time, their ancestors have been from the region, and they have already confirmed themselves in some electoral district, or whether they have been written down according to the last place in which they have voted in Estonia. There are about 71,000 of these people. According to the population register, there are about 14000 people with voting rights who have never voted in any of the Riigikogu elections and who have not tried to secure any electoral circles in one way or another. The point is that 71000 people living outside Estonia already vote repeatedly, I do not know how many times the Riigikogu is elected in a row, about 4,000 people. So, for some reason, 67,000 people are not voting. I am not sure that this is the fault of all of them, it is probably the weak communication of the Estonian state with its compatriots or its citizens abroad. The truth is that these 71000 people are divided between different electoral circles. So when calculations are made at the end of the year, these hypothetical people will be added to the number of electoral rights living in Estonia abroad, according to the size of the electoral circles, they will be added differently, to 3000, to 4000 and to 5000. To be honest, this makes the process of forming constituencies and allocating mandates a little absurd. If, for people in Estonia, we can say that 60% or slightly less of them are being chosen, 57%, 58% or 59%, then 5 to 6% of people living abroad will be voting. Personally, I think it would be easier for us to cross them off, even at first, at least from this calculation, because we have no way of verifying the reliability of these figures. A process should be undertaken that the state turns to any such person and asks what he really thinks about whether he is going to vote in the first place. This total number, by the way, gives out theoretically the number of people entitled to vote for the constituency of the external Estonia, but if the percentage of participation is so low, it is not feasible again. This is a separate issue that should be addressed. I don't think we can do anything rational here with the forces of the opposition. The state apparatus must somehow come to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U96	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U97	Thank you, Chairman. A good colleague in both the Riigikogu and the Commission! I will shorten my presentation and therefore ask what I have already asked you in the committee. You have pointed out, in the protocol, that I have considered this approach interesting, that the right to set up electoral circles and the number of mandates is granted to one person and that this is still taking place in executive power. You also mentioned several times that it was a technical matter. I have great doubts about that. Didn't you have that kind of doubt? In fact, these variants of the electoral commission and service also provided for quite interesting additions, even in Järvamaa and Ida-Virumaa. The committee said that the islands of Pärnumaa were not compatible, although there was a sea in between and, according to the Estonian birth document, they were also a county. The merged Viljandi and Pärnu are not very uniform, while South-East Estonia, Viljandi and South-East Estonia are uniform. Is this really such a technical question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U98	Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. Basically, I think that the task of shaping electoral circles and allocating mandates can be accomplished entirely without the participation of a person, if there are reliable figures and a well-written small computer program. I learned programming in Tartu once at the end of high school, and I would probably have been able to write this program on Ural's machine at the time. It's not that complicated of itself. But the question you asked me goes for what maybe everyone in the hall doesn't know. Namely, one department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which is called the State Election Service, has already presented three or more plans for changes to electoral circles a year ago. One scheme provided for an average of 15-mandated electoral circles, seven pieces, one on average ten-mandated, ten pieces, and one scheme provided for further smaller electoral circles. If you look at them seriously, I think you can see that they are quite recklessly or negligently made. Of these, it seems more or less logical that only this scheme with the largest electoral circles. This option with small circles is, in my opinion, not serious at all, because I said that I believe there must be at least seven mandates, but eight mandates would be better. But these average ten-mandated constituencies... I believe that each of us is able to draw a couple of schemes that are significantly better than the people in the election service. For example, I also drew one of the diagrams where I put together the city of Tartu, where I come from, and the surrounding Tartumaa, Ida-Virumaa and Lääne-Virumaa and, I think, Viljandi County, Jõgeva County and Järvamaa went together. Believe me, it was a much better 10th option than what we were offered to paint beautifully on paper. By the way, these schematics are in the form of files somewhere. I believe that the staff of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can certainly send these beautiful pictures to everyone interested. But my main point is that there are other and better ways. In any case, I think ten circles of ten, on average, are better than seven, on average, 15-mandate circles. But I know that these opinions differ from group to group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U99	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U100	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! We now have a system of closed lists, which means that a person chooses a party first and foremost. That is why it makes sense to decouple the electoral district from the county borders and to make it local authorities. However, I do have a question about the lower and upper limits of the mandates. You have a minimum of eight and a maximum of 13 mandates. The difference is five mandates, which is quite large. In Estonia's terms, would it be reasonable if we were still based on the fact that the districts could be formed on a local government-based basis with a more equal number of electoral circles? I imagine they could be between 7 and 10, which would also give such a balancing regional cross-section in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U101	But it's possible. I don't have the guts to think of anything here. As I said, it is quite simply possible to run a computer program that allows such things. After all, our basic condition would be that the constituency should be compact. Changing these borders in Tallinn is relatively easy: one more street, one less street, all right. For example, it is not difficult to do such a constituency, which includes all the municipalities in the two counties and one or two municipalities in the third county bordering them. I'm pretty sure there are some things in the electoral system that can't be changed for political and psychological reasons. For example, this method of voting is that people receive a ballot paper to which they have to write a single candidate, not his name, but a number. This method now seems to be home to the Estonian population, although it is a rather unusual and partly strange system. There's no way to change it. Now, the calculation of election results and, specifically, the allocation of mandates among political parties. In this area, especially when it comes to the 10/20 mandates, the rest are clearly divided in the electoral circles, either by personal or circuit mandates, I have a feeling that the public would accept this change with more approval than with shoulder construction or defamation. As a matter of principle, speaking a little more philosophically, if a electoral system is introduced in the country, as Estonia currently has a proportional electoral system, it must be borne in mind that each system has its own weaknesses. In my opinion, the rest of things should reduce these weaknesses, not increase them. The main political weakness of this type of proportional electoral system that we use in Estonia lies in the fact that a very large number of voters are unable to find a specific member of the Riigikogu, whom they can consider to be their own representative or friend and with whom they can work as a 'vote'. For example, the same Lääne-Viru County with its four or five mandates. Who should be guided by the electorate in this constituency who has voted for candidates for lists that have not received any mandates in that district? The future of our parliamentary system can very much depend on how future members of the Riigikogu can specifically represent a certain part of their electorate. This job is pretty hard. Perhaps someday, when the Estonian state gets so richer that every Member of Parliament has permanent help who represents him in the constituency, it will be easier to do so. But I think that all of you who have done political work in Parliament understand very well that if we drown our work in some legislative or other area, then our communication with the voters in our circle will certainly suffer as a result. However, if we only begin to deal with the fact that we are communicating with our district constituents, we are in correspondence with them and we help them, then all the more general political and legislative issues will probably be neglected. That's the eternal dilemma of these subjects.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U102	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! There was talk in the presentation of such a very high number of mandates for local elections, but I will bring this issue into the context of the parliamentary election. An extreme example would be if Estonia as a whole were one electoral district or there were very few electoral districts. As far as I am concerned, Ukraine was, until recently, one of the largest countries in which the entire Parliament was elected in one constituency. What problems would such a solution bring?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U104	I now know two countries in the European cultural area. Israel is one of them. In Israel, in principle, there is one electoral district in the whole country and there is no threshold, so it is quite possible that a list will be made available to only one representative of the people in Knesset. However, none of the Israelis who voted in favour of the list live in a compact way. Another country I know is Holland. It's a very old arrangement in the Netherlands. The Dutch state and nation were born in wars and battles during the Reformation. The Dutch or Flemish speakers of this part, who formed the Dutch state, were relatively equally pro-Christian in the three Christian streams or in the Christian Church: a third were Catholic, a second third were Lutheran, and a third were Calvinists. To date, this issue is no longer important and, as far as I know, all the members of these three churches will vote for the same Christian party, but most will vote differently, but yes, voters of different cultural backgrounds and interests did not live historically compactly in different parts of the Netherlands, but they lived throughout the country. But one constituency has survived. As far as this Ukrainian experiment is concerned, it is probably a crime and an example of how it should not be done. In Ukraine, perhaps during one or two parliamentary periods, there was such a thing that the entire Ukrainian state was a single electoral district. Verherovna Radas had about 450 members and all parties submitted a list of 450 candidates. What was the result? Since we are living in an era where there is a very good public opinion monitoring technique, several months before, the opinion agencies had already identified the great odds of getting their representatives to Parliament by one, another or third Ukrainian party or electoral union. None of the Ukrainian politicians were interested in working with the voters as a result, because there was no point in going out and collecting votes. The only point of political action was to get yourself, along with all the truths and lies, at the top of the list, into the part that was supposed to get to Parliament. If, for example, one party had a forecast that it would receive 20% of the votes, all the people of that party fought to get a common list, that was a closed list, of course, otherwise there couldn't have been a top 20% top. It is now a complete cartoon of electoral democracy and, fortunately, it has been abandoned in Ukraine. But I am not sure how well-known this example is in Estonia. Now, that is an example of how the electoral system should not be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U105	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the explanatory memorandum, and even in your present appearances, you have stressed on several occasions that the formation of electoral circles should be abandoned in terms of county orientation and, above all, compactness should be taken into account. How will this compactness be determined for these new constituencies? Who's gonna decide that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U107	This withdrawal is, in my view, inevitable; the boundaries of the counties and also the figures of the population have changed considerably at the moment. The current electoral system is not like this and it is not likely to be possible to construct any other one in order for the districts to go along the borders of the current counties and, at the same time, to be extremely unequal in size. 'Compactity' may not be a good word. I thought that, and I think that others who looked at this matter in the group also meant that, for example, Tartumaa is one electoral community and if it remains small, one of the municipalities bordering on Tartumaa could add to it. That is the concept of compactness, not that there would be another constituency in the meantime, and then there would be another piece of the Tartu County constituency. That kind of gerrymandering shouldn't be allowed. If 'competition' is not the best word, then you have to say it differently. I myself believe that the fate of the Soviet districts, which were renamed counties, was to disappear. Taagepera once spoke of how empires would end. One way is that the empires end up with a susina, the other is that they end up with a big bang, and third, they end up an elegant empty vagina. In my opinion, Estonia's current counties have also reached the form of an elegant empty vagina, within their borders all kinds of cultural events and God knows what, but as a state organisation, they have long ceased to exist. Most of the smaller counties no longer have state sub-offices; they are usually concentrated in three or four groups in Estonia. But, of course, there are some features, even if the county cities retain the registration of marriage, for example, it does not disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U108	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U109	Thank you, Chairman. Good colleague! In fact, my question comes from a previous question concerning a national list. Somehow, you brought Ukraine as an example. I am now taking Estonia as an example, because in Estonia there were actually two elections back, i.e. in the previous elections, in the elections to the European Parliament, one all-Estonian circuit and list, and in fact there was an open list. I now ask you to evaluate these elections, the results of these elections and, in fact, the problems or pros that are on this list, which you offer to Estonia, as far as possible, for the Riigikogu elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U110	Well, I don't know what to say about these elections to the European Parliament. There's a very small number of mandates going into distribution. It's known in advance. I can't imagine how this could be done any other way. There are probably lists that participate, even more than mandates. I understand that we will probably now have one mandate, but neither will it fundamentally change anything. We're in a state of compulsion. I don't see any other reasonable solution. Members of the European Parliament have developed some sort of communication systems with their constituents that run through the media. The various ambassadors report to the various electoral groups and generally do so, not on a local basis, but on an over-emphasised basis. I did not start the issue of Ukraine myself, Mr Herkel asked me about it. But in my opinion, the most regrettable moment in Estonian electoral practice was before the 2002 municipal elections. The council of Tartu has historically been and is currently 49 mandates. There were four constituencies, candidates were set up from all parts of the city. Then came the extremely charismatic leader of the Reform Party in Tartu, Andrus Ansip, who became extremely popular among the townspeople. The Reform Party, together with its allies, decided to make such a change that, taking advantage of the great popularity of Ansip, it would make one electoral district in the city and give all citizens the opportunity to vote in favour of Ansip. I will say right away that the alternative option would have been to maintain the constituency, get Ansip to run for one electoral district and have him campaign the other three to vote for my partymates. At that time the result was that Ansip received a fantasticly high number of votes, it was 8,000 or 9000 at, and the next Reform Party candidate received a few hundred votes. Ansip, with his votes, attracted 20 or more people to the Tartu City Council; I do not know exactly how much. In my opinion, this kind of idea is rather a warning example and the possibility of such things happening should be reduced. They're not good.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U111	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Looking at the changes in the size of the electoral circles and the number of mandates that will be shared there, for example, since 1995, there is a very clear tendency that there are so-called winners, i.e. circles in which more mandates are shared, and there are those who are losing. The winners may be District No. 2 (Kesklinn, Lasnamäe and Pirita) and Harju and Raplamaaa, but if we move south, we can see that all of them lose their mandates, such as three mandates, in Põlva, Valga, Võru, Järva and Viljandi. It has been heard that the Fatherland and Res Publica Union have offered to have six circles, and the Centre Party has proposed 15 circles. I am interested in what happens when we make a system with six circles, i.e. divide Tallinn into two, and the rest of Estonia makes four circles. So what effect does it have on people who choose? What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U113	There are many changes. The concept of a local candidate has now been quite dissipated. In most cases, the candidate has introduced himself to some kind of nationwide activity. This possibility that someone could say that I am a patriot and candidate for this Estonian county has shrunk almost to nothing. The second thing that comes is that there is a further reduction in the proportion of local voters who know the candidates for leadership personally. Rather, the norm is that they have seen them on television a few times, but probably not in life, and it has not been possible to hear them personally. In this case, the parties will definitely choose Ansip's 2002 Tartu tactics, that the list will propose the most attractive candidate and the voters will be invited to vote for him. Then it is that there is a leader with a strong political mandate, and he is followed by such small tail cells. That's the line. In that case, I think, even if there is no relief from fractions, which, in my opinion, is far too strong anyway, there are six subgroups within each group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-15_U114	Okay. Thank you. We'll continue on Tuesday. The session of the Riigikogu is closed. Unfortunately, not everyone could ask, but you can think about how to make the question better this weekend. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
