ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. The Monday session of the 4th working week of the VIIIth plenary session has begun. It begins with the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Five members of the Riigikogu report an inquiry to Mrs Riina Sikkut, the Minister of Health and Labour of the Republic of Estonia. Last week we received quite a few letters. 500 health professionals sent public visits to both us and the members of the Government of the Republic of Estonia in connection with the purchase of specialist medical care from the Health Insurance Fund. Attention was drawn to the situation where, according to the first results of the purchase of specialist medical care by the Health Insurance Fund, the 150,000 inhabitants are deprived of the opportunity to receive a paid appointment at Lasnamäe near their home (over 50,000 cases per year of treatment) as an ear-nose-throat doctor and an ophthalmologist and a cardiologist's health insurance fund in Pirita and Viimsi. In addition, there are plans to reduce the number of free receptions by a number of other specialists such as gynaecologists, orthopaedics, gastroenterologists and pulmologists by 60 to 90%. Despite the fact that both the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs have sent a message to the public about resolving the situation, specialists in the field are convinced that all so-called solutions are temporary and emergency measures and cannot be overlooked by drastic reductions in treatment cases. In this context, we ask the Minister for Health and Labour for answers to the following questions: The first of these is very important: "As your minister, how do you assess the recommendation of the Head of the Health Insurance Fund to the residents of Lasnamäe, Pirita and Viimsi to visit a specialist doctor in the counties instead? Does the Health Insurance Fund also finance additional transport costs? " What does the management of the health insurance fund have to do with the preparation of procurement terms? It was known that the same problems occurred during the previous procurement period. Why did this happen? Thank you. We're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U3	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is customary to say that continuity leads to the goal: once you have been thrown out of the door, it is worth going and climbing through the window again. [[A voice from the hall.]] It is not always worthwhile, but often it is worthwhile to have a purpose that is noble and good. The Reform Party is sincerely convinced that it makes every sense to give Estonians citizenship after birth in friendly countries as well. Given the debate we had in this Chamber, we've made some adjustments. I will also say these corrections very briefly, so we will be able to deal with them in the Chamber. The first concerns the amendment of the grounds for citizenship granted for special services and the reference to a text similar to that of the Orders Act, as clear grounds are given in the Orders Act. The second amendment concerns what came out of one of the ministers of the Government of the Republic, namely the Minister of Justice. He said that if someone has committed an anti-State crime, treason, then there should be an opportunity to take away his citizenship if this citizenship was obtained by naturalisation. And that's what we've written in here nicely. So it remains to be hoped that this time, the great hall of Parliament will be a little more constructive and tantrum, and we can also adopt this very important legislative amendment for the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U5	The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching nine draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws. Secondly, the draft Act approving the 2009 and 2013 amendments to the 1996 Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Third, the draft law amending the Commercial Code and the Law on Non-profit Organisations and the Law on State Fees. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on the Courts and the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with these two draft laws. Fifthly, the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. Sixthly, the draft law on the breeding of farm animals. In the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamm, the Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic when dealing with the two draft laws mentioned above. Seventh, the draft law amending the museum law. The Minister of Culture Indrek Saar represents the Government of the Republic in processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Eighth, the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds and related amendments to other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. And to the ninth, the amendment of the law on the External Action Service and the related amendment of other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U7	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted ten draft laws and one inquiry. And as usual, as every time, we process them in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act as soon as possible. Incoming check, please! There's 85 out of 101 comms. Adoption of the agenda. I shall vote on the agenda for the fourth working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 83 MPs voted in favour of the agenda, with one abstention, with one abstention, with two abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U8	We will begin to respond to inquiries on the basis of the newly approved agenda. Aivar Sõerdi, Urve Tiidus, Maris Lauri, Aivar Surva, Terje Trei, Keit Pentus-Rosimitus, Jüri Jaanson, Ants Laaneots, Peep Aru, Johannes Kerdi and Urmas Kruuse submitted an inquiry on 22 August about the extraordinary dividend of the Port of Tallinn (inquiry No 440). The Secretary of Finance, Toomas Tõniste, responds, but first Aivar Sõerd gets the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U9	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The IPO of the Port of Tallinn, which took place in May of this year, was obviously the largest IPOs in recent years, including the largest transactions in recent years with shares held by the majority of the state. As a result, the port issued 33% of new shares and the State's shareholding fell from 100% to 67%. Of course, in the course of this transaction money was also created for the Port of Tallinn, which gave the state the opportunity to withdraw exceptionally large amounts of dividends in addition to the normal dividend. While the normal amount was EUR 48 million, an additional EUR 57 million came from IPO. The issue is primarily driven by the processing of an earlier draft, during which we prepared for the transfer of the Port of Tallinn to the stock exchange. Then it became clear from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications that the government even once discussed the issue of whether the money that is to be transferred from there to the liquidity reserve or the stabilisation reserve. I will also explain why this difference is important. The point is that when money goes to the liquidity reserve, it means that it is immediately available.. it can be used within the current financial year. Only with the permission of the Riigikogu can money be taken from the stability reserve, and in the event of an economic crisis, the placing of money there will mitigate the risks of the future. It is also quite natural to assume that this money will be channelled there, because such income is really one-off. This will remain a one-off, as the regular dividend from the Port of Tallinn will be one third smaller in the coming years. Looking at the situation of reserves, the stabilisation reserve, which is not excessive (it is slightly over 200 million), would have been an important addition if there had been nearly 60 million more. In particular, given that the stabilisation reserve has barely reached the level before the previous crisis: in today's currency there was just over EUR 400 million, just as there is now more than EUR 400 million. It is not too much. And let us remember that the budget for 2007 was half as much: today it was 5 billion, now it is 11 billion. The risks are much higher and the upgrading of the stabilisation reserve is appropriate. Consequently, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Finance, to which we also want answers today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U10	The three questions asked are answered by the Minister for Finance, Mr Tõniste. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You submitted an inquiry on 22 August, where you were interested in the extraordinary dividends of the Port of Tallinn. I will answer the questions that you have asked me next. The first question: 'The Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kadri Simson, has said to the Riigikogu that the government discussed the question of whether this extraordinary income could be placed in the liquidity reserve or in the stabilisation reserve. He confirmed that the decision was based on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Why did you propose this to the government, given that, as Minister of Finance, you should, above all, be concerned about mitigating the country's future risks and increasing the stabilisation reserve? ' First of all, I stress that our reserves are sufficient for possible crises. This has also been confirmed to me by the Risk Management Committee of the Ministry of Finance, whose task is, among other things, to propose requirements for reserves. The transfer of funds to the stabilisation reserve is carried out in accordance with § 71 (2) of the State Budget Act and has also been complied with. However, what matters here is that when we collect reserves, we must look at the whole. In terms of the whole, the difference is, above all, how the various instruments can be used in times of crisis. In this context, the Stabilisation Reserve is the last reserve rather than the main crisis buffer. Only Norway, in addition to Estonia, has reserves similar to the stabilisation reserve, which has collected funds from oil revenues. As a rule, only the countries of the Middle East have such extensive reserves. In particular, in order to mitigate potential risks, including in order to cope with the crisis, there is a liquidity reserve, which also has a minimum level. Separate requirements have been set for the liquidity benchmark. In order to meet the target level, the unused balance of the liquidity reserve assets and loans taken by the State, i.e. the liquidity buffer, must cover at least six months in the event of a fall in tax revenue from the State's disbursements, similar to the last economic downturn. In this way, we will ensure that the country has more than sufficient buffers to survive the major recession. That's the kind of means we have. The second question: "Is it sufficient to mitigate the country's future risks in a situation where the stabilisation reserve has not even exceeded the volume before the previous economic crisis? It should be stressed here that ten years ago, for example, the state budget was half as small as it is now. " According to the Ministry of Finance, the practice of increasing the stabilisation reserve is appropriate and there is no need to establish an additional minimum or maximum reserve size. The stability reserve will increase mainly through cash surplus, the profit reserves of Eesti Pank and other temporary income. Increasing the reserve through current revenue would mean taking additional money out of the surplus of cash flow, which would unduly hamper economic growth. The Stabilisation Reserve is essential for resolving crisis and emergency situations. This is of symbolic importance in order to demonstrate the country's readiness to deal with crises. However, the Ministry of Finance cannot rely solely on the stabilisation reserve in crisis situations. Firstly, it is very difficult to assess the likelihood of crises (natural disasters, economic crises, financial crises, war situations, etc.) and the scale of the costs involved. Secondly, in order to address the crisis situation, it is possible for the country to borrow, cut costs and delay investments in addition to the use of the stabilisation reserve. However, the most important thing is to prevent crisis situations and manage risks more effectively. The Stabilisation Reserve shall be used only exceptionally. The purpose of the Ministry of Finance is to ensure the management of the State's risks so that the State can finance its own liabilities even in crisis situations in such a way that the stabilisation reserve does not need to be mobilised or pushed into use as far as possible. The liquidity buffer covers the most critical period of a very large recession. As a rule, economic downturns are lower and liquidity buffers may be sufficient throughout the crisis period, meaning that there is no need to use the stabilisation reserve. In addition, in a crisis situation, the country will be able to apply for loans to international resolution funds such as the ESM and the IMF and other countries. The most recent mobilisation of EUR 224 million from the reserve was to reduce the overall economic risks resulting from the global economic crisis in 2009. At the same time, two negative additional budgets were drawn up in 2009, reducing public expenditure to EUR 584 million. IMF assistance was not needed at the time and the ESM did not yet exist. This shows that reserves are neither the only nor the main source of crisis resolution. Moreover, it is not economically feasible for us to collect surplus resources in the stabilisation reserve or other reserves, as the interest environment is currently negative, with low profitability. It should also be taken into account that annual inflation reduces the purchasing power, or value, of national savings. The third question: 'The current government and coalition have abandoned the expansion of national reserves in the years of the high economic recession. You have talked about the importance of responsible fiscal policy. How do you see the immediate spending of the IPO money in the Port of Tallinn serves the purpose of responsible fiscal policy? You have said before before the Riigikogu that this money is in the budget; this IPO money is needed for the running costs of the state, including the payment of salaries to officials. ' I do not agree, in principle, with the sequestration of individual revenues and costs in this form. Government expenditure and revenue are comprehensive and the fiscal balance of the general government as a whole needs to be monitored when designing fiscal policies. One important objective of national fiscal policy is to smooth the economic cycle, which means that in a crisis situation, the budget must stimulate the economy and cool the economy in a boom situation. The same principle is followed by the State Budget Act. The general government budget is projected to have a structural surplus in 2018 and a nominal surplus of around 173 million euros. Thus, in view of the objective of structural balance of government budgetary policy and the state budget law, it is conservative and responsible. Secondly, I would point out that only EUR 46.2 million of the dividends of the Port of Tallinn are recorded as revenue in the state budget of 2018. EUR 58,8 million is reflected in a financing transaction for which no costs can be incurred. It therefore automatically adds to the budget surplus and whether this amount is finally reflected as a change in reserves or in the debt ratio does not change the balance of the budget. What matters is the whole. Given that in recent years, 2014 to 2017, the dividends of the Port of Tallinn have remained within the range of 30 to 50 million euros, in terms of budget revenue, 2018 is not an extraordinary income, but rather a normal situation. That is why, in principle, we cannot talk here about financing budgetary expenditure from extraordinary revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U12	Questions for the Minister. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U13	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, We filed an inquiry a few months ago. In the meantime, the government has delivered the state budget document for next year. A lot of interesting things are found in the area of dividends when you read it attentively. I have a question about the expectations for the coming years, especially next year's dividend, of state-owned companies. Surprisingly, we found that you foresee a rather large contribution of capital to Eesti Energia. Does this mean that in the coming years, the same money will be taken back from Eesti Energia to cover all the foolish expenses you spend with your government? Or can you suddenly disclose the specific transaction for which this capital contribution is made to Eesti Energia? It's probably 143 million, which is not a small amount at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U14	Thank you. I am about to correct that I certainly do not agree that stupid transactions or stupid expenditures are, for example, investments in ICT, increases in teachers' salaries, increases in the pay of rescuers, investments in R &amp; D. I certainly don't agree with you here. But when we talk about the future of Eesti Energia, this is a possible co-financing of potential investment projects of Eesti Energia, whether they be investments in a distribution network or renewable energy. An investment in an oil plant is also under preparation. Whether Eesti Energia needs a capital contribution from the state, and if so, in what amount and projects, it will be concrete after making investment decisions. As the 2019 budget is forward-looking, this option is included.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U15	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! An extraordinary dividend actually means an exceptional tax liability, in this case for the Port of Tallinn. In the second quarter of this year, the Port of Tallinn had to pay 26 million euros in income tax. As a result, the result of the half-year of the Port of Tallinn is negative, i.e. the loss is.2,3 million euros. At the same time, the Government of the Republic has taken a decision to pay a minimum of EUR 30 million of dividends this year and next year. What kind of trick are you gonna do with that? The profit of the Port of Tallinn is usually lower. For example, last year it was EUR 26.4 million. How do you ensure the payment of EUR 30 million as a dividend?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U17	Thank you. Certainly, the government cannot prescribe everything they have to do to the Port of Tallinn. When the IPO was planned, it was also known that there were plans to withdraw dividends. There is nothing special about the fact that profits accumulated in previous years were also taken out. It's perfectly normal in a situation where a company goes to the stock market.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U18	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, My question concerns the stabilisation reserve. Your message to us was that reserves are sufficient, followed by a great deal of philosophy that this reserve is inherent in most oil countries and that excessive contributions to them would hinder economic growth. First of all, I would like to know what this enough is, what this numerical size is. One question raised by the heirs is that the level of the reserve has not even increased to the level prior to the previous crisis. Is this statement correct, and what are these orders of magnitude? And has anything changed here in the philosophical foundations? If so, does this result from the current government? However, in resolving the previous crisis, the stabilisation reserve had a very important significance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U20	Thank you. I myself believe that the stabilisation reserve is necessary. According to experts, the size of the stabilisation reserve is sufficient. As I said here, we have a liquidity reserve, in addition to the stabilisation reserve, and they must be looked at as a whole. This is a time of negative interest. We simply have to take into account that the higher our reserve, the higher the costs, such as interest expenses. It must also be inflation that eats purchasing power. The current reserve level has been found to be sufficient. And that includes half of Eesti Pank's profit allocation every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U21	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Finance Minister, when you answered the questions of inquiry, you said that in crisis situations you cannot rely solely on the stabilisation reserve, because crises can be of very different volumes, and you added that prevention of crisis situations is the most important thing. You are a key minister in the government, and you certainly have an understanding of what kind of crisis situation it is most important to implement prevention. What is the crisis situation that concerns you most, and what are you committed to preventing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U23	Thank you. One of the most real crises can come from the financial sector. There has been a great deal of progress in this area compared to 2009, especially across Europe, with enhanced supervision. We are also very much dependent on foreign markets at large, on what is happening there. Compared to that time, certain risks are now more mitigated. Moreover, the behaviour of the people of our country is more conservative than in the run-up to the previous economic crisis. Just to clarify so much that the numbers I read here were an example of the fact that, although there was a very big economic crisis at the time, the new crisis, according to the opinion of the specialists, should not hit us so hard because measures have been taken in the meantime. Then around 240 million were spent on the stabilisation reserve, and today this reserve is 412 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U24	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you are convinced of the need for a stabilisation reserve and of the fact that experts are saying that its volume is sufficient. However, I am not an expert, and I hear you say that 224 million were needed from the stabilisation reserve in 2009. In addition, there were also negative national budgets. Today, we have a reserve of more than 200 million euros, while the state budget is significantly higher than at the time. The state budget also has a significantly higher "automatic" share of expenditure. A similar crisis would strike very hard at the volume of our reserves. You said that it would be possible to borrow from the International Monetary Fund in the event of a crisis. In short, my question is whether this basically means a political change, that in the event of an emergency we turn outside for help.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U26	Thank you. The answer is that there are now more opportunities than there were at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U27	Let me remind you that the Rules of Procedure Act gives me the right to submit an additional question in the event of inquiries. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U28	Thank you. Minister, you have always stressed that the Estonian state has sufficient reserves and buffers. I have ahead of me a national reserve table, which the chief accountant showed us when we discussed the country's summary report. As of 31 August, the liquidity reserve and the stabilisation reserve amount to EUR 1,240 billion. The public institutions, the health insurance fund and the unemployment fund, which deposit clients' money with the Treasury, have deposited EUR 1.340 million. For example, if customers would theoretically like to withdraw their money, all the liquidity reserve and the stabilisation reserve will have to be paid out and EUR 100 million will still be missing. Tell me where the logic of your claim is that we have enough reserves. Our country's risks are not limited to the labour market and the health insurance sector, there are many other risks that need to be covered. What are you covering them for during the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U29	Thank you. It's really good that you're worried like that, but I'll tell you again, there's nothing to worry about. A good example is the announcement by Fitch, a rating agency from yesterday or the day before yesterday: our sovereign rating was improved last year and again this year. This shows that Estonia has done well to mitigate potential risks. And we've also said before that if we look at reserves, we have to look at loans on the other side and what matters is the net asset position. If we want to, we'll always have a chance to borrow. However, it is more appropriate to manage cash flows in a reasonable manner and in accordance with the principle of a group account. If we are able to use these funds, there is no point in borrowing and paying interest for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U30	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U31	Thank you. I did not believe that my eyes saw the Minister of Finance speaking before the Riigikogu that the reserves were cost and that the government-controlled reserves had been downgraded is absolutely right and necessary. I also recall what you said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs today: the net position will however deteriorate next year, so the overall picture will also get worse. Not to mention that if the three budgets made by the current government were to be taken together, i.e. 2017, 2018 and 2019, and all these positions would still look back at a considerable structural minus. So there is relatively little reason to rejoice. But my question concerns the dividends of Eesti Energia. I think you missed your answer first. In such a situation, where Eesti Energia does not know for which 134 million is needed, I believe that even Eesti Energia does not know what the 134 million is needed for, you have probably put it there, it would not be more reasonable not to take dividends instead of taking the dividend with one hand and putting the money back with the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U33	It looks like a very dividend wash.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U34	Thank you. I think, on the one hand, it is perfectly normal for a profit making company to pay dividends to its owners in a stable manner. As I said before, this is co-financing of potential investment projects. This does not mean that they are carried out at all or that they are carried out on such a scale, but that investment decisions are needed first. What else was the question? [[Someone's answering from the hall.]] As I said, it is not clear at the moment whether these investment decisions will come or what extent they will come. The state is ready to pay up its share capital, this readiness is there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U35	There are no further questions for the Minister of Finance. Thank you, Toomas Tõniste! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U36	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, After the Minister's speech, it is certainly appropriate to clarify the matter and to go over this whole issue a little bit. First of all, I admit that on 22 August, when my colleagues and I put in this question, the autumn forecast of the Ministry of Finance had not yet come up. Autumn forecast showed that, for example, this year, tax revenues proved to be better than previously expected, and that the coverage of the country's cash-flow minus was "receipted'. So maybe there's no problem. The Minister of Finance said here that the forecast for 2018 is going to be a small surplus, but we know that the year before, 2017, the budget was both structurally and nominally negative. Further on from the claim that the reserve is a cost. The reserve is, in a way, insurance, and the insurance is related to costs. Of course, however, the environment of negative and low interest rates is not eternal. So this situation could change. The fact that the collection of reserves in the event of the arrival of economically tighter times is something extraordinary in the European Union is not credible. The Estonian state also has experience: we still collected reserves before the previous crisis, and practice showed that these reserves were needed. Not only in today's currency 200 million of the stabilisation reserve went into operation, but more money came from the liquidity reserve, to which the sale of telecoms shares added. We got away, say, with the predatory interest of borrowing what Latvia had to do. It was also more difficult for Latvia to emerge from the crisis as a result. Now from this argument that there are all buffers available today to help during the crisis. The minister here said we could turn to the ESM, we could borrow. First of all, in times of crisis, it will certainly be more difficult for countries to borrow than in good times. And what does it mean to turn to the ESM? This means that the Riigikogu surrenders decision-making to the ESM Council. That's exactly what this aid program means. If the economic situation improved at all in those countries that unfortunately came under programme status and had to apply for international financial assistance, then their first wish was to get out of the status of the beneficiary country or programme country. They were willing to take a loan at even more expensive interest rates, as long as they could get out of this ESM program. This was the first concern of these countries. And the minister is now lightly saying that if there is a tighter economic time, we will be able to get help from the ESM. It's really weird to hear that kind of talk. So, in any case, the question here is that this year, in such a situation, the possibility arose of extraordinary withdrawal of dividends in connection with the disposal of shares in a majority-owned company by the State, especially given that we have had excellent tax receipts this year, and that there would have been a reason and need to supplement the stabilisation reserve. Once again, if there are just over 400 million euros in the stabilisation reserve, then in 2007, before the previous crisis broke out, we also had a little over 400 million euros in the stabilisation reserve today. But look at how much the situation has changed, if only the total amount of the state budget is twice as large as it was then. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U37	No more members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate. Is there something the Minister would like to say? The Minister doesn't want to say anything. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U38	The next question is submitted by Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Enn Meri, Krista Aru, Monika Haukanõm, Jüri Adams, Ants Laaneots, Ain Lutsepp and Mart Helme. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U39	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, It is quite an old truth that the best way to prevent corruption and the risk of corruption is to make public. The idea that information about all transactions and trading partners of local governments and their sub-offices should be publicly available and that the public money portal is suitable to ensure its availability. This was found in an anti-corruption strategy and its implementation plan. This has been recommended by the National Audit Office, the Auditor General, as well as various audits, such as the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Act in local governments, which was completed last year and was also introduced to the Special Committee on Corruption. I was working there at that time in the Commission, where this topic came up again and again, slowing down some obstacles. For some reason, such an IT application has not been possible and this has been prompted by the current inquiry to the Minister of Justice. The Ministry of Justice is more responsible for anti-corruption activities and this specific application could operate in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. It is also of little importance to mention what Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answered at the end of last year, in October, in Riigikogu Question Time for my question. He said that disclosure of the accounting data of entities belonging to the government sector in the application of public money would also be extended to local governments and would have to take place by the end of 2018. In the meantime, the above-mentioned Special Committee on Anti-Corruption revealed different information: it is still not possible, it is entangled, the business register is an obstacle and maybe inter-ministerial cooperation is not good enough. This is why we have three questions for the Minister of Justice, and we hope to receive calm and optimistic answers from members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U40	Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U41	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! Honorable questioner! I will put forward the consideration of calming down the objective information at my disposal. I hope that it is the truth that frees and soothes people in the Riigikogu, in human relations in general or in situations where man alone is confronted with the universe. The right thing is that the Prime Minister touched on this in Question Time last year. He pointed out that, in cooperation with the National Audit Office, guidance material on internal control should be prepared, which should be available in the autumn. Indeed, last year it became available, as the Prime Minister pointed out. The second thing the Prime Minister referred to in his speech was that the Ministry of Finance is developing the application of State money, which allows for an analysis of the financial situation and activities of local governments. As the Prime Minister pointed out at the time, the aim is to start publishing local government accounting data there. And the deadline for this action is set in 2018 according to the strategy's implementation plan. The question is whether, on the basis of the objective information at my disposal, it is true that the implementation plan for the Anti-Corruption Strategy specifies 2018 as the deadline for the Ministry of Finance. Yeah, that's right. The implementation plan for the anti-corruption strategy for the years 2018 to 2020 clearly highlights the step-by-step launch of the information system State money to provide the public with information on government financial transactions as one of the sectoral tasks. This consists of: obtaining the software needed to disclose the available data in the balance records information system, preparing the initial task of disclosing transactions between local government and private parties and analysing possible interface with the business register and other registers, carrying out IT development of contracts between municipalities and private parties through public money. The final task, which should be done by what the good questioner referred to as a purpose, is to make public the transactions of entities belonging to the government sector in the application of public money. I can assure you that both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, who should implement this task, as implementing agents, as part of the anti-corruption strategy, are one of the clear operational objectives. This objective must be achieved. Now, why has it not been realised so far, and why will it be fully realised in 2020 rather? According to the best information available to me, the reason for this is the limited possibilities of the balance records information system. I have to admit that this is not the first time that I have been in contact with such a case, it is such a relapse. I am thinking of some changes that have a legitimate purpose in the country, but which can take considerably longer in practice. One obstacle is that information systems need to be changed. They are like an obstacle to themselves, for changing them requires considerable money. The same is true of imposing additional restrictions on maintenance creditors. The bill is ready, it has all been coordinated, there are no ideological problems, but there is now a debate between ministries, because the remodelling of databases takes a considerable amount of money and means separate works and activities. We are now seeing a similar case in this case too. In fact, the Public Finance Portal compiles government accounting data from 2004. Then what is it? General government units report the information required by the annual accounts of the balance statements of the information system on a monthly basis. At the moment, however, it is not possible to obtain detailed information about which partners the government sector entities were dealing with, unless the transactions were carried out within the joint group. Thus, in essence, it is not possible to see who and to what extent the government sector deals with. The objective set by the Ministry of Justice in its anti-corruption strategy is that we want further information on these detailed payments: to whom, at what date, in the amount of explanations, in relation to which activity and from which financial source these payments have been made. The public money portal, the separation of the state treasury, or the operational management, the way in which the transactions have been carried out, will become transparent in nature. As I said, in order to collect additional data, it is necessary to develop this information system for the balance data systems that are currently the bottleneck of the problem. The Ministry of Finance, which should implement it, assesses its IT centre (RMIT) for a cost of up to EUR 500000. The Ministry of Finance plans additional financial resources by 2020. The State Support Services Centre, which is a body managed by the Ministry of Finance, plans to coordinate with the government sector by the end of 2019 a draft code of conduct on public financial accounting and financial reporting and to prepare public procurement so that the works can begin as soon as the money is received. My clear objective is that, if the necessary data are available, they must be made available to the public as user-friendly as possible. I want to say that one thing is definitely when this final addition will be made available, but the other is the substantive preparatory work. The employees of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and the State Support Services have worked very closely together here. Together, it has been agreed that the best user application for public-private transactions is currently an open data-based application based on opener.ee, which still exists as a prototype. Opener has been created under the leadership of NGO Corruption Free Estonia to increase transparency between public procurement, companies and various links. The public money system is based on a technology that, although has a more versatile scope for analysing big data, requires that users also develop more and more skills that are not necessarily needed to display transactional transactions. Opener's approach is simpler, clearer and more appropriate in this context and can be linked to the Public Money Portal by linking the home page. In other words, users of the Public Money Portal will have the opportunity to move forward to the Opener environment to view transactions, drawing data from public registers, including the balance records information system described above. In the further development of Opener, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and NGO Corruption Free Estonia cooperate in particular. The Ministry of Justice and Corruption-free Estonia have concluded a cooperation agreement whereby the Registries and Information Systems Centre (NIK), which is under the administration of the Ministry of Justice, provides the Corruption-free Estonia with the necessary data from the business register free of charge, which is generally subject to a fee. So with this question, to which the good questioner also referred, whether it could be an obstacle to the processing and launching of this case, we have been able to solve it. Here, this problem of conflict of interest has been removed, so do we not do this because it could worsen the state's revenue situation? 'What prevents the disclosure of all transactions and transaction partners of the government and all local governments on the Public Money Portal? What is the stage of cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance in this regard? ' Currently, the lack of information on these transactions in the balance statements information system, as I referred to, prevents the disclosure of transactions. As regards the further development of the Opener application created by NGO Corruption-Free Estonia, the Ministry of Justice and Corruption-Free Estonia operate in this field. And as far as the assessment of this cooperation is concerned, I can say that, in terms of moving towards a meaningful objective, why this is being done and how to find a rational solution, I think, cooperation has been a good thing. The question is now when the Ministry of Finance will be able to make these IT solutions. As I said, the confirmation has been given for 2020. With regard to Opener's application for information from the Public Procurement Register and the Business Register, we hope that it will be completed earlier and, once the balance records are completed, it can be linked to the National Money Portal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U42	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is far from calming, because we understand that the government is failing the task, it is delayed. And it's a little hard to figure out what's costing so much here and why maybe you can't use a more complicated, not so user-friendly system that these things are still public. Why are anti-corruption measures even delayed? I would point out here that the Chancellor of Justice also put forward a number of proposals a year ago to avoid conflicts of interest, the risk of corruption in local governments. It has also not become a law in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. In what number of priorities does the Government and the Coalition have anti-corruption action in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U44	Thank you. Certainly, the government intends to ensure that the tasks that have been undertaken are carried out. But I have to admit, it was a very legitimate question. In a very large number of cases, the requests made by ministries on the basis of expert advice are such that I cannot presumably question the cost of some IT solutions. I must admit that I also feel vulnerable to the logic of whether these amounts are objectively justified in practice. I have no reason to assume that these are not justified. Or if I said the other way around that they cost 1,000 euros or some order of magnitude less, I don't have a'side-by-side' expertise. This is, in reality, a major problem in itself, so that we do not become hostages to these IT solutions by empowering our public administration, which, in particular, have been described in legal procedures and which really make us inflexible. This is an objective problem. But as I said, the assurance that the Ministry of Finance has planned its budget is at my disposal. I have to rely on this information, because the authority responsible for carrying out this task is the Ministry of Finance. The second question concerns how far we are in particular. The Chancellor of Justice prepared a 'package' before the municipal elections last year, when some or other problems arose here. As far as I know, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this today. The topics are divided in two. One is the issue raised by the police authorities, which I think was also pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice. This applies where corruption has caused damage to a public person or local authority and where the local authority, either as a victim or as an indirect victim, does not wish to recover funds in civil proceedings. In practice, corruption has been damaged, especially if a local government manager or official has violated a trust obligation. This is certainly not a normal situation. The second problem relates specifically to supporting matters. I spoke to the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs today about how the debate went. He was optimistic. I hope that, before the next regular elections, during this parliamentary term, this 'package' will become a law. The Ministry of Justice has also put forward a number of concrete proposals on making internal audit mandatory and on other matters, the period of implementation of which needs to be considered. These could probably not be done immediately, i.e. in the months that have been read, to impose additional obligations on local authorities, but with a sufficient transitional period, this would in any case be conceivable. This has been recommended earlier by the National Audit Office. So we have put forward a number of other proposals. I am optimistic that Parliament will still be able to process this package during this parliamentary term, and it will then be able to enter into force without stretches. And it can certainly include other questions if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U45	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U46	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! If you look at the so-called 'Prevention of Corruption in Municipalities' 11 steps' prepared by Sööt, Kruusmaa and Kalmet, it turns out that there are shortcomings in the development of this topic. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance are unable to agree on the exchange of data in the business register. We in the Committee on Legal Affairs have come up with the issue of business registers before. In this light, since you already have an IT development theme on your desk, have you thought about making the business register more user-friendly? Proposals for amendments to entries in the business register are so complicated that a member of the Riigikogu can be insulted by a judge. He's asking why you're not making it more user-friendly. It is a complex system and it is incomprehensible why the legislator does not deal with the administration of the business register, why executive power does so.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U47	No person in the Republic of Estonia has a duty to tolerate the involvement of an official of the taxpayer for the money of the Republic of Estonia, whether this person is in a high state office, whether this person is an elderly person who no longer works, whether this person is young, whether this person is old, whether he is incapacitated or disabled, successful or socially less mature. This is the starting point. I'm sorry, Külliki, and my assumption is that that's exactly what it was, that's what it was. But this badger must have reflected aggressive or attacking criticism, conspiracy, or misunderstanding about the operation of this thing. This is certainly something that I unequivocally condemn, no matter how high or educated it is supposed to be the person who does it. As far as the business register issue is concerned separately, user-friendliness and the need for all these data, there are actually two directions. One of the trends we are currently dealing with concerns the insolvency review and the protection of bona fide entrepreneurs, bona fide people from aferists and crooks who bankrupt companies, are draining them. In fact, we have a lot of shell companies. Figuratively speaking, it turns out that a person is in prison, but you can imagine that he is also a member of the board of directors of a company, doing business there. Of course, such things must be brought to an end. Paradoxically, this could result in further pressure on the business register in order to protect bona fide entrepreneurs. Another direction is the consumer-friendliness of the business register. And here I have specifically asked for an evaluation and analysis of the situation that has arisen. The Ministry of Finance has certainly taken steps to enforce the very necessary international money laundering documents in Estonia, so that we record the real beneficiaries in such a majestic and extensive environment. But I've got a lot of worried questions. The people of the congregations ask me who are the real beneficiaries of the service to God. Who is it when people are fought and asked for their souls? These questions have come to me in a series of ways. I have also asked to assess whether this method, how we incorporated this norm into the Estonian legal order, was the most user-friendly. Wouldn't we be able to achieve this with some kind of automatic mechanism, if the board members are actually known, it's not a secret, starting with the building management company and ending with some other non-profit organization? That's a problem. And I have asked to examine this issue first and foremost in the light of the question that has now come out recently. Not that I question the overall international objective: all kinds of hustlers and Iranian or North Korean non-sanctioners must be prevented. This must also be realised in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U48	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You assured us that our country has a good, well-thought-out anti-corruption strategy. You have also confirmed from here just a while ago that the goal really is that our country is clean of corruption, that its operations are transparent and fair. On the other hand, we have public authorities that fill out balance sheets and report very correctly. Local authorities do the same. And then you say that in fact, all these transactions will only be visible in 2020. Where's the priority now? Perhaps it should still be said that if we have a very clear objective and the state needs it to work effectively, the IT solution does not need to be so perfect.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U50	What I want to say is that, as far as the information technology tools and the funds allocated for this are concerned, I will certainly take this encouragement from this high House of legislator today. And I intend to discuss it with the Minister for Finance, so that, if necessary, we can make a joint request from two ministers to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who will manage the central national IT systems development plan, so that we can implement this IT solution in the earlier stages. On the basis of this so-called general bureaucratic schedule, this is my information about the Ministry of Finance. If there is information, there is no doubt that this impatience is also entirely justified. At present, however, increasing further transparency in society is solely behind this solution. The sooner it is completed, the better, because it will undoubtedly serve the interests of wider social cohesion. I promise the legislator that I will try to find a common platform with the Minister of Finance to put further pressure on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U51	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The wish for negotiations is on behalf of Andres Herkel's heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U52	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, What we heard here was still saddening in the sense that promises are, optimistic plans are, but the real ability to realise them is not. I am getting more and more seriously concerned about our so-called pioneering IT state, which cannot and cannot solve these things. We already have one very sour, large and inclusive example of SKAIS2, where the Ministry of Social Affairs is stuck with its numerous information systems. And now we actually meet the same thing for a smaller, transparent thing. So, on behalf of the heirs, I would like to express my hope that this last message, which the Minister has given, will still come true, i.e. the request will be made and it will be tried to implement this matter. We have considerably fewer municipalities now than there were before. The existence of such an information system would certainly be an important measure to make things in our country more clear and transparent. Parade things either from the Anti-Corruption Council or from some plans we have already heard enough. We now want to hear the solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U53	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate, but the Minister does. Please, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U54	I think that this problem of how sustainable our public sector's digital capacity is should be considered as a matter of national importance. It's no joke at all. Much of our current digital capabilities we have done for the money of the European Union. These are development projects with a capacity at the time, which were carried out 5 years ago, 10 years ago, 15 years ago. By doing so, we figuratively excluded the payment cheque period, jumped right over it, and rightly we got our so-called digital story about the modern shaping of public power. The question now is that the power of the generation of these IT systems is beginning to decline. I see this in the area of the Ministry of Justice's administration, for example, in the case of a business register and a land register, for the whole lot that was made with European Union money. There are running maintenance costs in the budget, but in reality we are starting to have a gradual depreciation of this whole system. And on the basis of practical necessity, new ones will come along, whether they are smaller or larger, with the need to redesign these systems. Whether it's the specific thing we discussed here, whether it's a living or any dozens of things. There are also grandiose plans that we want to do even more by interconnecting with public authority. The question is that it may happen that this whole system is going down with logic, because the central state IT money managed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs is actually intended to finance new projects. This particular project qualifies as a new project because it has a so-called independent character. I predict that the question of the tools for reshaping the existing depreciation system will be the most serious test for our IT system in the coming years, so that we do not lose our capabilities. The government has allocated additional money to the IT sector, but the question in itself is what are the options in which these funds are put. It is clear that the question is not whether we can increase our IT level. We need to invest significantly more in it in order to maintain the current level at all. This is the view for the next five or ten years, and that is the fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U55	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U56	Next is the question of the members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Kariladi, Peeter Ernitsa, Erki Savisaare, Aadu Musta, Enn Eesmaa, Oudekki Loone, Toomas Vitsut, Dmitri Dmitriev, Toomas Väinaste, Helmut Hallemaa, Anneli Oti, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Korbi, Heimar Lengi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Igor Kravshenko, Tiit Terik, Märt Sults, Eev Paasmäe and Siret Kotka-Repinski. On behalf of the heirs, Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U57	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, on 22 August, the members of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry, not one, two or three Members, but 20 Members. The inquiry concerns Danske Bank's money laundering case. I have to admit, the inquisitors have been pretty self-critical. If you look at the introduction to the inquiry, we can see that in 2007-2015 almost 13 billion euros could have been washed through the Estonian branch of Danske Bank. At the same time, it's 13 down, and it's $8.5 billion written in its place. This shows how informed Parliament was on 22 August 2018. It also shows something about the functioning of our state institutions: if Parliament is so little informed about critical cases, this unfortunately shows Parliament's weakness. Some institutions have been aware of this. It appears that the Financial Supervision Authority has knocked on the door of a local branch, has asked questions, has made comments. It turns out that, for ten years, the Financial Supervision Authority is most likely to be looking at when the first letter of formal notice was made! Aware of the matter. Was the Financial Supervisory Board and its chairman, the Minister for Finance, so long aware of the scale of the problem and accepted the situation, claiming that it is Danish jurisdiction, we have nothing to do here on the territory of our republic? To let them act is the Danes responsible? Minister of Justice, I would like to stress that the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, has said to the public on 31 July: 'Today, it is clear that there has been a serious problem in monitoring the flow of information between all the competent national authorities and the lack of the capacity to analyse the substance of all the information. ' I can already see that this is actually the conclusion of the Minister of Justice. Why, then, is it that we can draw such a conclusion? On 30 July, Jürgen Ligi, former Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, told Delfi's portal that it was not his fault that the management errors made in his time had been made. A very important level of decision-making removes itself from any liability, not even 1% of which is seen as liability. And consequently, as a result of these conclusions and the fixing of this situation, we 20 MEPs have three questions for the Minister of Justice. We're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U58	Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U59	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs and all representatives of the people! Where I took this sentence: 'Today it is clear that a serious problem with supervision has been the flow of information between all the competent national authorities and the lack of the ability to analyse the substance of all the information. It needs to be developed. '? The end of the quote is the end of my own quote. I took it from the session of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. At the meeting of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, which was chaired by a good representative of the heirs, all the heads of the supervisory authorities of that state were present. In fact, this statement was hatched from their point of view at that hearing. I didn't do any special secret investigation into what happened. That is their clear position, their retrospective assessment. If objective, if all circumstances are taken into account, it is a question of its own, but in such a debate, this has come up. A serious question of principle arises when some individuals, whether or not officials in the Estonian space, Danish space or elsewhere, start talking very confidently about what happened. That's what happened, and I knew, and either I blocked it or I didn't. I don't have that kind of information. In addition to the public information I obtained from the various institutions to answer the question, I do not have any secret additional information that the representatives of the people do not know. There's nothing delicate about it. What crimes have been committed, to what extent and systematically dealt with money laundering? Which institutions have done this? Have there been any omissions or neglect by institutions? There is currently no adequate answer to these questions, as procedures are still under way to reach a competent response. However, there is one fundamental starting point that I would like to state in this Parliament's chair: the Republic of Estonia is a sovereign state and the principle of total responsibility applies in a sovereign state. We are responsible in our country for everything that is happening within our country's borders. It is not the case that there are some extra territorial activities that take place in the legal space of our country and where our country distances itself from responsibility. There is no such thing, it will never be in any independent country! Now the question of a single financial supervision of the European Union, the distribution of competences of banking supervision, who is doing what. This does not mean that the institutions of the Republic of Estonia received or can claim that they do not suffer the elementary burden of responsibility arising from the legal order of the Republic of Estonia, which results from the fact that we are an independent state. Now the question, which is very fundamental: 'Do you intend to carry out a legal analysis with a view to determining which information from the money laundering incident at Danske Bank came to the competent public authority and whether there was a legal correctness when specific steps were not taken on the basis of this information immediately? ' I spoke to the Minister of Finance and I can say that the country has a government commission on anti-money laundering, with representatives of institutions with particular competence. According to the Minister for Finance, a report or an assessment of what then took place in practice and what could be the proposals for the future will be drawn up under the leadership of the Commission. The Minister of Finance inductively proved that it was about a 40-page document that should be completed in November. Of course, the central public authority, which needs to correct the prevention of money laundering in the country, needs this document. This is further information for management, both to draw conclusions about what has happened in the past and, more importantly, to improve the environment in the future. A separate question is that the weight of claims in international media as well as the information currently available to the Estonian public, so-called fragmentarily, must be taken into account. We certainly have a duty of care, but the basic assumption that we are controlling the situation, the things that are happening in our country's territory, is actually that we are aware of the facts. If there's no information, you can't control the situation. Consequently, one thing is the report by the Government's Committee on the Prevention of Money Laundering, which deals first and foremost with the assessment of what happened by the institutions concerned, but there is certainly also a need for a'secondary' independent opinion on this. This would provide an opportunity to draw conclusions from our best knowledge of the money laundering issues of Danske Bank and to make an exhaustive assessment of what actually happened then. The government has discussed this issue several times, and last Thursday we made a fundamental decision that an independent rapporteur should be appointed to draw up such a secondary, independent assessment and present his own conclusions on the facts relating to this possible money laundering incident at the Estonian branch of Danske Bank. Right now we have Danske Bank's own report on the table. I read it on the plane. I thought it would be exciting reading, more exciting than the newspapers to learn about some crazy dirty secrets that have happened in our country. Honestly, I didn't get any answers to anything. I read this report, it contained a lot of technical details, but the clarity that really happened then did not get. It didn't work out what happened and who let it happen. There were no answers to the basic questions that were most needed to identify the truth. I am not going to talk about the fact that, in addition, the report lacked any exact quotations from the original documents, everything was written somehow in the bowls and in the third person. The conclusion was that the main problem was, like, that the IT systems of the branch and the parent bank did not interconnect or interconnect. I must admit that, in the light of the conflict of interests in which the bank drew up this report, I regard this report as a source of objective truth with a certain degree of prejudice. Consequently, we need not only this report by Danske Bank, which is floating around and on which conclusions are drawn, but, of course, we also need assessments under the auspices of the Republic of Estonia, which, of course, will also be prepared by analysing the bulls of Danske Bank. As far as the specific question is concerned, I do not personally, but the Government of the Republic is planning to carry out an analysis, and not just a legal one, but one that actually addresses all aspects of the Danske bank's money laundering case, including, of course, the activities of the various public authorities, the coordination of their work and, step by step, when they became aware of what they were doing and what they were doing. But here's the next question. 'Who were the ministers or officials whose failure to act led to the failure to provide information on the money laundering case of Danske Bank or to carry out appropriate procedures? " And two: " How was the information about the suspicion of money laundering to the prosecutor's office? What should have been the role of the Financial Supervision Authority and its Supervisory Board, which was then led by Jürgen Ligi, in getting adequate information on the suspicion of money laundering to the prosecutor's office? What is the responsibility of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in such a situation? Is existing legislation sufficient to define liability? ' I would like to start by saying that the Public Prosecutor's Office has also assessed the importance of carrying out a comprehensive analysis of the functioning of the Estonian financial system at the time, its weaknesses and other factors in order to draw conclusions as well as to clarify the situation. Now, as far as this triangle is concerned, the responsibility of the various institutions, we have, first, the Financial Inspectorate, to whom the Estonian legislator has tasked by the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, among other things, the supervision of supervisory objects, including public authorities, as well as the monitoring of compliance with the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and the relevant instructions. It is a central public financial supervisory authority with a clear central responsibility. In order to ensure the independence of the institution from executive power, it is structured in such a way that it is managed by a collegiate body, whose head is post-office, says the law as the minister responsible for the field. That's all I'm saying. Who is responsible for the field? In charge of the Minister. He shall be responsible for the management of the Council and, of course, the Governing Board shall be responsible for the performance of its duties. It is important that the Financial Supervision Authority Board approves the strategy, the budget and the annual reports of the Financial Supervision Authority, as well as decisions relating to staff. Alongside the Financial Supervision Board and the Board of Directors, we also have a Financial Intelligence Unit. The latter's competences stem from the AML/CFT Act and include, inter alia, the assessment and analysis of suspicious transaction notifications by credit institutions. This obligation of the FIU arises under the law. The Bureau has also prepared its own guidelines for identifying suspicious transactions. On average, credit institutions send an annual report to the Financial Intelligence Unit of 2000 to3000, which is analysed by the Office. Where necessary, the information shall be communicated to the investigative authorities in order to decide whether criminal proceedings need to be opened. The third institution, which belongs to the category of persons who identify the truth in criminal proceedings, is the Public Prosecutor's Office. One particular question was how information about the suspicion of money laundering should have reached the prosecutor's office. The events have actually taken place in such a way that, as far as the prosecutor's office is concerned before July 2017, I must say that my preliminary assessment, based on a hearing of the prosecutor's office's views, could certainly have been more effective in transferring this direct information to the prosecutor's office. I hope that the reports that are now being prepared will become an important input to the legislator. I think that, given this massive reputational attack, which seeks to reduce the credibility of the Estonian financial system, our starting point must undoubtedly be that we need one hundred percent of the truth. There are some technical conditions that cannot be spoken about because of bank secrecy, but the nature of what happened, the truth, as far as we have the strength to find out as a priority, must be available to Estonian society and the international financial environment, including the media. That's where we can move on. I hope that Parliament will use the procedures that these institutions are doing to find out the truth in its research into responsibility, both in action and inaction, as well as in the circumstances, and we will find out what really happened in our country's territory. We have a right to know. It's elementary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U60	Thank you. If the Minister did not say anything, I can tell you from experience that he will have the opportunity to do so while answering the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U61	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You said you didn't understand a word about Danske's report. Right! But I'm gonna tell you a story that happened while you were the Minister of Justice. Honourable law firms called on provincial traders to use their account: one hundred thousand from Russia to Europe and ten percent to be accounted for. Such examples could be more and more a life story. As Minister of Justice, who also has a connection with the Bar Association and the Prosecutor's Office, did you know that such things take place in Estonia, here in the province?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U62	Thank you. I am honestly saying that, if you are referring to a specific case that a person who is a member of the bar association has proposed some kind of illegal activity, which also consisted of violating anti-money laundering rules, so it was supposedly illegal activity, I do not have any information about such a case. We need to know the specific circumstances. But I didn't say I didn't understand Danske's report. I read the 86 pages from cover to cover, and I understood perfectly what it said. The question is, was I satisfied with that? If this credit institution wanted to provide as much information as possible about what actually happened at its branch, I did not get a sufficient response to that. It wasn't on 86 pages. The rumor was there were some secret annexes, no secret annexes were put at my disposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U63	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! When you answered the question, you read the various committees and you mentioned the prosecutor's office as well, but never once. Do you think that Estonia will produce a similar report to what you read on that plane to wash your reputation clean? Is there any hope that we will be able to clear our reputation when we have identified the circumstances in which such a thing could have happened in Estonia? The Financial Supervision Authority has repeatedly presented beautiful, very shiny reports on its activities, but perhaps something needs to be done there too, so that it can really become an effective control and monitoring body. All these committees you have mentioned, what do we have to do if they are not delivered as necessary? Obviously, these committees work for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U65	Thank you. What's the status? The situation is that the prosecutor's office is investigating this case in criminal proceedings. What is important, however, is that the prosecutor's office has stated: criminal proceedings cannot begin to seek the signs of crime. Information on possible criminal offences must come primarily from the supervisory authorities in a specific case, as a result of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) or the analysis by the relevant investigating authorities. And if there are signs of a crime, there will be a procedure to determine whether the violation of the rules was a criminal offence. Law enforcement authorities can deal with specific crimes. Criminal proceedings can be initiated when monitoring or analysis reveals, for example, the characteristics of a crime involving money laundering, bribery or counterfeiting. In practice, it is important to take into account that the prosecution's office carries out the procedure on the basis of all the information at its disposal. The good questioner wanted to know whether the activities of the institutions of the Republic of Estonia should be aimed at trying to take a positive view of what happened on the territory of the country, whether our institutions or the basis of our supervision of the activities of the credit institution, Danske Eesti Branch. There's no need for that. This would be the starting point against the interests of the Estonian state and the reputation of the Estonian state. On the contrary, the credibility of financial matters can only, in reality, be produced by clarity. And it also became clear that the Estonian state can only have a negative attitude to large-scale money laundering cases. Our country is now interested, first of all, in identifying all the conditions relating to specific episodes or the possible system built up using a branch of a credit institution operating in our country or in our country. Secondly, we need to analyse the activities of our financial supervisory authority, of all the authorities that have had to be responsible for preventing such types of financial offences in our country's territory. That is why the important principle that I have emphasised is that of the continuity of responsibility. Responsibility exists universally throughout the territory of our country; we cannot withdraw from it. If someone here has pointed out that we have an occasional responsibility for what is happening in our country, I categorically reject it. There can't be such a thing! Episodeous responsibility on the territory of the country is not! I hope that these reports and the criminal proceedings of the prosecutor's office are clearly limited in the framework of criminal proceedings, which concerns the specific and possible offences that are stated in the Penal Code, and which create a reliable platform from which decision-makers can draw conclusions, but also create additional trust in Estonian society and also internationally. I mean Estonia's reputation. I think this is the most reasonable starting point for moving forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U66	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U67	Thank you to the manager. Good Minister, I wanted to ask about the shared responsibility between the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority and the same Danish inspection. But I have already received an exhaustive answer from you: you spoke in a very clear way about the principle of total responsibility, saying that in the territory of the Republic of Estonia, action cannot be done that our eyes cannot see and our ears cannot hear. I got a very single answer. At the same time, I am amazed that we still tend to go into the maze of legal analysis without even talking about political responsibility in this case. Somehow we're avoiding it. One journalist claimed that on 3 March the elections of the Riigikogu were coming and that is why it would be useful for anyone not to talk about it. But if we look at the fact that the former Minister of Finance has clearly distanced himself from this case, that...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U68	Now, a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U69	Let me conclude: does the Financial Supervision Authority need reform? Should we give more strength to Eesti Pank if the supervisory board in this form is empty?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U70	These are very important questions. As far as the specific supervisory responsibility relating to money laundering is concerned, I do not want to go into the legal maze for which the good questioner warned me, but I just had my paper printed out in time in order to be clear, in particular, the European Union legislation governing money laundering, which also defines the allocation of responsibility between different countries. Well, there was a pile of them. And I have to say that what has been referred to as the central supervisory responsibility of the financial supervisory authority of the country of departure or the country of origin, i.e. the financial supervisory authority of Denmark, does not mean that the financial supervisory authority of the country where the branch is located does not have a supervisory function. Of course it is, and neither does the Financial Inspectorate. That's what he did. If this were not the case, this would mean some kind of non-legislative action, and this, of course, has not been done by the Financial Supervision Authority in its supervision. This is the first starting point. As far as nuances are concerned, there is no doubt that the public has the right to find out about them as well. There has already been a question of whether there are any grey zones in the area of responsibility. This has already been asked by the European Commission. The European Commissioner for Justice agreed to call for an analysis of whether we need further European regulations to strengthen this accountability environment. As regards whether the Financial Supervision Authority should be reformed and whether the Financial Supervision Authority has political responsibility, if we have a written law saying that the Minister responsible for the field is in charge of the Financial Supervision Authority, the legislator has agreed to define that the management of the Financial Supervision Authority will be complemented by political responsibility. Otherwise, this political responsibility would not be led by a member of the government, whose position has been defined by the euphemism that has caused much confusion in the meantime, as is the'minister responsible for the field'. This is an elementary administrative logic. Consequently, there is also political responsibility; there is no doubt about it. Political responsibility exists. The question is whether the Financial Supervision Authority needs restructuring. The only information at my disposal is that the Head of the Financial Supervision Authority is concerned that they do not have enough resources. The Financial Supervision Authority is structured in accordance with the principle that a "supervised" payment is charged, they essentially finance this supervisory work. I'm not ready to say one thing or the other when I answer that question today. The instinctive answer is that we do not know whether these baseline estimates are valid. I would like to emphasise once again that these basic assessments are either media products or elsewhere. Today we are talking about 200 billion. The 200+ billion is at today's prices. Danske Bank came up with an estimate that 230 billion is money that is suspected of money laundering. What kind of money was there that actually revolved about the origins of the schemes? In fact, we must say today in this House that our information about this is poor, to say the least. We are rightly upset, we are possessed by this emotion, and we want to know the truth. And this truth must be established in Estonia by the methods that I described. If we want to take as a starting point the understanding that everything is fine and works, then given the problem that has taken off in public, I am not qualified to take this starting point. I do not want to say that it is absolutely necessary to attribute blame to someone, to any category of guilt, to any institution or institution, whatever the leader or authority of the institution, the fact is that there has been a lot of crap on the territory of our country. It is a fact that both the smaller and the smaller countries of the world are going through both the smaller and the smaller ones. It's no secret. The question is that the systemic nature and scope of this case will force us to take measures to support public confidence. It has to be done. So the starting point is that it is not conceivable to just go on the old way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U71	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I have two questions. The hearings of the Committee on Legal Affairs have shown that this Minister in charge of the field has been passive in his activities. In fact, different institutions and institutions expect support. Have you discussed in the government or in the cabinet why the government has been rather passive and only now, lately, starting to send out clearer signals or at least to show interest? And the second question: if you made a decision to order the report, why have you not announced when it should be completed, who will carry out the work, who will prepare it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U72	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U73	Thank you. The decision was that the Minister of Finance would present his proposals in the near future, giving also the focus of the task with a specific person and a time perspective. I consider it reasonable that this must be a person for whom there can be no doubt about his independence. There must be no suspicion of a conflict of interest, not even institutionally or institutionally, in connection with the person's previous activities. And it must be the person who is supported, if necessary, by the assistants, but who does not draw up this report in addition to any other task. It must be his main job. That is the position that I expressed at this government meeting or at the meeting of the Cabinet, as well as the fact that at least the first conclusions of the report must be presented in a few months' time, not in a longer period. Now whether the reality has been passive to take the necessary steps. The fact is that the meetings of the Financial Supervision Authority are closed. I have no information at my disposal about how much supervision checks have been discussed and whether there has been any discussion at the meetings of the Supervisory Board and their results when it comes to supervision carried out at the Estonian branch of Danske Bank and cooperation with the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority. I am not aware whether the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu must receive information about this at its hearings and whether you have received it. But let us take a look at the activities of these Estonian institutions in time, and there is no point in dissecting the activities of Danske Bank, because their interests are at stake, let us see how things have worked out! We certainly must also give a prudent and reasoned assessment of Danske's activities, both the branch and the parent bank. We need the Republic of Estonia's assessment of this; there is no doubt about the assessment of the institutions of the Republic of Estonia here. If you read the annual books or reports of the Financial Intelligence Unit and the Financial Supervision Authority, we can see that the figures that have actually reached the public have changed dynamically. The authors of the 22 August inquiry initially wrote a figure of 13 billion, after which they replaced it with 8.5 billion. I don't know where this $8.5 billion comes from, after all, from somewhere in the newspaper. I don't know where that 13 billion came from, but he did come from some other article, did he? Where does this 200+ million come from today? This is due to the dubious turnover of the non-residents of Danske Bank on Estonian territory. Surely we must have an understanding of what phase who knew what, what supposedly should have known and what should have been done with this information. It is possible that the system worked smoothly thanks to the minimum due diligence that we have attributed to public supervisory authorities. This is certainly an additional signal that in the Republic of Estonia the so-called "mechanically" case was dealt with impeccablely. It is possible that there will be some problems and shortcomings, which also concern liability. And then we have to deal with these issues separately. In general, I do not think it makes sense for us to distance ourselves from this problem, nor is it wise or responsible. If we want to be masters of this country's territory, defending a good business culture and a good business environment, we must take active action if there are any problems that have been going on for a long time. Then we have to find a relevant solution. It's just that rhetoric doesn't make these problems go away by itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U74	§ 140 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act states that a member of the Riigikogu can ask a question in case of inquiries. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. One question that was asked was whether you would name those persons who may have been responsible and who were responsible for the period when money laundering took place. It is now unclear what anyone knew and how much someone's real responsibility could be to commit this crime, not mischief, as you said, but crime, systematic and long-term crime. But my question does not concern these names, although they must undoubtedly also be brought to light. My question is this: would you tell us in what form this accusation is based on which case the prosecutor's office is currently investigating?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U76	Thank you to the good questioner for asking such questions. I am now pointing out that in July 2018, William Browder presented to the Public Prosecutor's Office a more detailed report on possible money laundering at the Estonian branch of Danske Bank. There have been several cases in the past where no criminal proceedings have been opened against his report of crime. On 31 July 2018, the Public Prosecutor's Office opened criminal proceedings following an analysis of the information contained in the application and its annexes. That's all the information I got from the DA's office to answer questions. I don't want to start making assumptions here. If the good inquisitor wishes, I would be happy to inform you in writing, after replying to this inquiry, of the details of the procedure as far as the prosecutor's office can give them to me. However, in itself, criminal proceedings are opened when circumstances point to the commission of a criminal offence. This does not mean that a specific person or individual, whether legal or natural, is necessarily identified, who is suspected or accused of committing criminal offences. At the moment, we can say that the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Estonia has sufficient reason to suspect the commission of crimes and to start criminal proceedings. It is also important for us to know that after criminal proceedings were opened at the Estonian Public Prosecutor's Office, the Danish Public Prosecutor's Office also launched criminal proceedings. The Danish and Estonian prosecutor's offices have also formed a joint study group. And now a clear distinction has to be made between the two types of research. One type is criminal proceedings dealing with 'definable money laundering', or the transfer of funds obtained from criminal activity, or, let's say, the transfer. It actually means there's been a crime at first. And whatever crimes they may have been, they have been committed, as has been said here, east of us, in Russia. These are specific cases of money origin: this property in the form of money is the result of a crime. At least I expect it on the basis of public information. Mr Browder, for example, has pointed out how the plundering of his company has been committed. The second category is a breach of financial rules. Failure to comply with financial rules in this credit institution led to a level of bank failure to meet the basic due diligence requirements for the prevention of money laundering and the integrity of money movements. In fact, either directly or indirectly, Danske Bank itself refers to this position in its document. These are then two different types of categories of evaluation. As far as those specifically responsible are concerned, there are, of course, a number of types of responsibility. One is institutional responsibility based on the duty of due diligence: what the people who perform the respective tasks of these institutions did or did not do. And the other is a specific responsibility, which could be guilt, malicious negligence, or something else. Certain individuals either deliberately or negligently took steps or did not do anything. I think it is absolutely necessary to assess this whole context more broadly. We have said this several times, looking at the majestic figures that have been presented in the public, also in the international media. What were the objective circumstances that motivated certain persons to use the branch of this credit institution in Estonia as a channel? What were the motivations? There are many credit institutions in different countries. What was this unique guarantee of reliability for those who used this money laundering scheme on Estonian territory? I very much hope that this question will also succeed in obtaining a credible answer during these various procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U77	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You said you hadn't read the secret notes on Danske's money laundering analysis. In this regard, I ask: have they not been submitted to you, have you not been interested in them, or do you not have a state secret permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U79	Thank you. According to my information, these secret annexes exist I do not know whether I do not want to use this word in all Estonian research institutions, but certainly they do exist at the financial supervisory authority of the Republic of Estonia. The reason why Danske Bank considered it necessary not to make them available to the public relates in particular to bank secrecy. As regards the internal activities of the Financial Supervision Authority, as well as information of a more technical nature about what happened, it must be noted that there is no advantage in the position of a Member or a Member of the Government in this regard that more information may be requested or obtained. That's a question in itself. I have been told that, in order to obtain complete information on this issue, as regards the right of Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs to receive information on certain episodes, it is important to consider amending the law. I hope it's not that dramatic. However, in ongoing procedures, there are very clear objective barriers to obtaining information on the business situation of a credit institution. Whether they should be reduced because of an overriding public interest must certainly be analysed separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U80	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Undoubtedly, the money laundering case of Danske Bank has had a negative impact on the reputation of both Estonian and Nordic banking and has probably also brought down the prices of shares held by different banks. But that's it. What has happened really means that we need to address the whole issue in a very delicate and responsible way, so that we do not even more damage our reputation and that of the Nordic countries. I don't want to point fingers or ask who's to blame, who's to be held accountable. I want to look more into the future and ask what we've learned from this case. Have we come to the conclusion that we have to change something in our legislation, or do we have to change something in practice? The question is, can we learn anything from it and make the right decisions about what to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U82	I think that, for all systemic and extensive problems, learning ability depends on the formulation of the starting point. And the starting point now is whether the institutions of the Republic of Estonia consider it an essential and widespread problem, that there is such a suspicion of money laundering in our country. Is that a problem for us that we must actively address? If the answer is yes, i.e. we find that this is not someone else's problem and we are not more like spectators in this situation, and I think that this answer must be yes, then the next question is what can be practical conclusions. I think that the answer in the affirmative is based on two assumptions. The first assumption is that there is, as Mr Helme said, a systematic crime committed over a long period of time. This is quite possible when it comes to the circumstances that have been through the public media. This is a relevant legal approach to this. If what has been made public proves to be facts when it comes to extensive systematic money laundering, then there is certainly nothing that has not been done in our country's territory. I want to see the person who says that everything is in the best condition, everything has been done in the best order, but just excuse me! This is what happened. All the relevant environments are, we admit, improved year after year, but there are internal contradictions and bureaucracy in pan-European money laundering surveillance acts. At the same time, they are actually built on the desire to block this activity, not to deal with the post factum. Are we in a unique situation here in Estonia in this sense? Of course, there are cases in other countries as well. As you can see, there is a separate controversy about this, and it is likely that this will come under more attention in the European context, but the fact is that I think it is necessary to get the focus right on this matter. I'm convinced these two conditions are there. But you asked about specific activities. Of course, I'm not gonna put any practical steps in this sleeve. Here there have been various suggestions, such as the proposed reverse proof load, etc. They are probably all relevant and should be considered. I believe that the Commission led by Mr Tõniste and also the rapporteur mentioned above, as well as the other institutions, are proposing further measures in their work. Above all, we must send a signal to other financial institutions and investors around the world that Estonia is a reliable environment for allocating money, and the movement of money here does not get any suspicious taste. And another important goal is to send a signal to all sorts of skitters that it is not worth doing so through Estonia, you may lose money and you may also go to jail.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U83	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have always spoken in your answers about a law enforcement authority such as the prosecutor's office and the financial supervision body, but there has been no comment on the kapo. Otherwise, such an effective supervisory body, how could they not have gotten to this thing for a long time? Do they not have access to the bank's activities, are they not able to control banks at all, or are there other reasons? Can you explain a little on this side this serious problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U85	Yes, thank you! As regards the so-called police competence, it is the case that we have a Financial Intelligence Unit whose so-called "upper procedural authority" is the Central Criminal Police. In Estonia, police authorities are known to be divided, which is dealt with by the Po in addition to the detection of spies, which are dealt with by the Central Criminal Police and which are dealt with by regional police authorities. According to this division, such supervision does not in itself fall within the competence of the Defence Police Department. I do not currently have any information at my disposal as to whether the Defence Police Department received any information on this case by means of a procurement procedure. I can't rule that out. But I'm sure it'll come to light in further proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U86	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U87	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You referred here to the starting point which should be formulated and formulated it. You were asked what practical conclusions were drawn from what happened. In fact, the activities of the Estonian branch of Danske Bank received international attention due to the criminal investigation initiated. That's what William Browder demanded, isn't it, about the Magnitski case and also the inner whistleblower. What are the practical conclusions to be drawn from this? What can be done in the future? Is the problem that the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Intelligence Unit have not had enough resources, opportunities, competence or I do not know what to initiate a criminal investigation case in such a case?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U88	The question here is actually that, and it was also the original question of the question of when the prosecutor's office became aware of the facts. I pointed out that the DA's office itself isn't like a shark floating around looking for victims. The logic of its activities is that the supervisory authorities provide it with information and address it with requests. From this point of view, the prosecutor's office will be able to initiate proceedings. But in my opinion, there is certainly reason to analyse how impeccable or, more precisely, how pulsive the movement of this information was. Now whether the supervisory authorities have sufficient resources. Technically, it is always possible to provide an analysis of the circumstances in which such cases would have been either avoided or very quickly blocked on Estonian territory. It's a legitimate model for correcting mismanagement. I think it would certainly be worth asking someone in Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs about how it could have been avoided. If you ask me if I have information at my disposal that having more resources in these two institutions would have been more likely to prevent it, I cannot of course say the opposite. I think there's 90 people working at the Financial Supervision Authority. For example, if there were 100 or 190 people, it would have been more effectively blocked. The same goes for other institutions. But I can't say that it was the lack of staff that caused such a chain of events. I'm sure processing will answer everything. There are a lot of unambiguous views expressed on Estonian soil in relation to this case. I don't dare. I dare not give any judgment or qualification of what has happened. There is simply no information. I don't know how well secret information is provided by those individuals who have shared some estimates in a very definite tone. I would remind you that we are clearly in the midst of the interests of a large bank that is not impartial in this matter. Last week, I think on Wednesday, Bloomberg swam out the news that more than a trillion euros have been washed through Estonia. The world's GDP is, I don't know, what it is, let's say 70 trillion dollars, and now over a trillion have been washed through Estonia! I understand that Eesti Pank rejected it, confirming that it was a false news. Was it a message that appeared for objective reasons, or did someone deliberately cause a false story? There are probably very different financial and other business interests competing in the whole operation, and there is no doubt that the bank's interest is simply to distance itself. I think we should be the impartial judge written apart, not together as usual, who assesses the behaviour of Danske's mother bank, the behaviour of the employees of the branch, the behaviour of the institutions of the Republic of Estonia and also the international supervisory environment. And if something has been poor in our opinion, we will make an honest assessment of it, and if something has happened in our opinion for objective reasons, then we will make an honest assessment of it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U89	Thank you very much to the Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations on behalf of the inquisitors for the second time, Jaanus Kariliid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U90	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, A very interesting situation in itself has arisen. On the one hand, it is said that we want to know the truth, on the other, it is said that we must not be political. Being political, as I understand it, precludes the truth. You're a politician, then you're just talking about political responsibility. Someone could tell me, or someone who knows, PR or a political competitor could give me a list of which subjects we can be political and on which subjects we cannot be political. The Committee on Legal Affairs has never pointed a finger at anyone. We have organised a parliamentary hearing. I thank the Free Party here, I thank the EKRE, the Social Democrats, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, I thank the five political parties of the six parties who are represented in Parliament and who are interested in the truth. I'm not a psychic, I can't see the bottom of anyone's soul, and I don't know who has a political point of view and who sincerely wants to know the truth. But the fact is, for more than ten years, a large-scale scheme could function. However, using taxpayers' money, we have delegated power to a political level where administrative resources should be directed in such a way that the sieves are sufficiently dense and strong so that the villains cannot pass through it. But they did, over ten years! I already thanked five parties. The Committee on Legal Affairs has done a commendable job in this respect that the Minister of Justice also relied in his report on the documents of the Committee on Legal Affairs drawn up on the basis of hearings held by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Attorney General has admitted to us that the information did not move well enough. But who didn't move well enough? We'll continue the hearings. I will try to be as apolitical as possible today, because it has been said that this is how we will find out more about the truth. When the Financial Supervision Authority hired a public relations officer three weeks ago, the production of their message became quite different. They're talking about reputational damage. But, good friends, the reputational damage has already been done! And when we exercise political supervision over each other and want to know who is responsible for these hogs, do we somehow cause reputational damage? But under 200 billion question marks, this reputational damage has been done! I do not understand how it is possible to further damage the image of parliamentary scrutiny. Such talk is political suffocation; it is a matter of hiding; it is a political escape! This is actually the real aim of PR and a certain political force. We've called the Financial Intelligence Bureau people to the Legal Affairs Committee. They have come and answered all the questions as much as the law has promised. The people of the Financial Supervision Authority have been there many times, the Attorney General has been there, the Department of Defense has been there. The Committee on Legal Affairs has invited the Minister of Finance to Jürgen Ligi, who was also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, in 2009-2014. Our wish was for him to come to the Committee on Legal Affairs, too. I have called him both in writing and orally. He argued that on 8 October, or today in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there was a debate on the state budget and he could not come. We understood that and we are flexible. Good Jürgen, who you are now in your room and watching television, we are now calling for a second time: come to the Legal Affairs Committee on 11 October at 11 o'clock! Come and talk about how the Financial Supervision Board did the work, how the information was received, how the problems were fixed. If the Financial Supervision Authority officials knocked on the door of Danske Bank branch... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U91	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U92	...when phone calls were made, they sent us, and when you saw that your structure wanted to work, why didn't you allow it? Did the Council say, then, that you will continue for another ten years like this, will we not at any time bring this up? Either I call the Danish Minister of Finance or I take this matter to the government office or I bring the problem to Parliament and I show that our legal environment is not strong enough, there are holes in it. A branch of one of the parent banks in the country of residence can be outside the local legal area and can be carried out on its own initiative, in breach of Estonia's reputation. This came out later, as has been mentioned repeatedly here. So I hope that Jürgen will come to the Committee on Legal Affairs and provide exhaustive answers. Perhaps he is convincing the Committee on Legal Affairs that the Council level has done its work well enough and deserves an order and recognition, as has so far been tried to convey to the public. So parliamentary scrutiny, hearings, the search for answers, if it's political action for anyone, not the search for truth... I don't understand how you can find out the truth differently. Are we going to delegate this responsibility and give power only to the Attorney General, tell him: you are responsible for this; we will no longer be involved in this matter? Well, that's absurd! So there are a lot of contradictions here. I hope that we will move forward with these five parties on this issue. In the second half of November, Parliament will make its own report and present it to the government and the public. We will make our proposals how, as my good colleague, Monika Haukanõm, asked here, in the future, we will strengthen our legal order so that nothing like this will ever happen again, but let us also ask for forgiveness, we cannot leave this issue aside Are we really saying that we are all responsible for this in a collegiate way for the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, all ministers and governments of the Republic of Estonia, and we are not asking who is responsible for this? When the representative of Eesti Pank went to the Legal Affairs Committee, he claimed that the Minister of Finance played a leading role in the security and credibility of the entire financial system. Are we questioning the position of Eesti Pank? Let's keep it going! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U93	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U94	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! Colleagues! Many things have been said, and thank the Minister for his answers. Some things got a little light on, but some things got really scratched. And the thing that got scratched was that we were told a bedtime story here. There was a bedtime story yesterday about the need to conduct an analysis. Murphy's law, however, says that if you want to kill something, then set up a committee. We create an analysis committee, we analyse, we hold meetings, we write reports, but we actually don't solve the problem. Right now, I have this very feeling: we are analysing not to solve the problem, because solving the problem means damage to the reputation. Respectables, reputables have already been born! And reputational damage can only be remedied if we bring to light all this long money laundering story and bring to light those people who were responsible and did not do their job or went along with corruption. That's what we really need analysis for. Why did I ask about the formula on the basis of which the prosecutor's office is currently handling the case? For a very simple reason. Because it depends on whether a pro forma is being investigated to say, well, the prosecutor's office was investigating, getting stuck, is what it is, but the reputational damage has been corrected, you see, the prosecutor's office made it clear that it actually went a little bit wrong, but nothing's wrong. Or the prosecutor's office investigates that indeed all matters are brought to light and brought to light by all people who did not do their job, who were unable to do their job, or who did their job in such a way as to benefit money launderers. That should be the real purpose of the prosecutor's office. But I have repeatedly noticed in our so-called rule of law that the prosecutor's office is conducting investigations that result in the end being lost in the water: nothing comes to light, nothing is identified, the expiry date comes on, documents are lost, etc. Actually, there's no result, but an investigation has been carried out. We will keep an eye on this in Parliament. We cannot agree in any way that the prosecutor's office or the minister will come to report to us at some point and say that respectable, we cannot go any further, it simply is not possible the wall is ahead or the expiry date has fallen. You can't agree to that! There's no way we can agree on that! The scale of what's been going on is so colossal that we can't talk about any fingertips. This period is so long that there's no way to talk about being overlooked. When it is said, the public and also Parliament are simply being fooled. On this subject, an investigation has been initiated by a special organization in Great Britain, I do not remember whether the intelligence organisation or any other organisation, the FBI, has initiated an investigation on this subject, and a Swiss institution has also initiated an investigation on this subject. This story is already international and it is no longer possible to prevent or remedy reputational damage at home. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U95	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U96	I was just checking, or I asked those colleagues who have a smartphone to check whether we had a legal aid agreement with the United States. Yes! We should agree to prevent money launderers and those involved in money laundering, as well as careless and otherwise reluctant researchers from countering the truth. We should now make an agreement with the United States to help us with a special prosecutor who, as an outsider and with the support of a very powerful state research agency, would bring these matters to light. This is not a surrender of sovereignty; it is international cooperation to prevent crime and money laundering in the future and to expose money laundering that has already taken place. I will tell you why our small group is feared. It is feared that we are the ones who are willing to take such radical steps and take them. The cartel parties won't step on them. Cartel parties are rolling hot potatoes from one chest to the other. But these steps need to be taken. I would like to emphasise once again one extremely important aspect. This aspect concerns the special services of our eastern neighbour. I have no doubt that a considerable part of this money was money spent by special services in Estonia, which financed the activities of special services agents in Estonia, elsewhere in the Baltic States and in Europe at large. And for that reason alone, these facts must be definitively established. For this very reason, cooperation with our allied countries, especially the United States, is necessary, because it is not only a financial crime that is exposed, but also a threat to our sovereignty, to our statehood and to our allies. So, Minister, we thank you for your answers, which were partly enlightening, but partly not very enlightening. We will certainly continue to deal with this issue with the Committee on Legal Affairs and interested parties. At the same time, I would point out that there is one party that there is no in corpore for them to have 200 billion euros washed through the Estonian bank in nothing. It's nothing, it's not a finger! I think this finger that has made a finger points in the very right direction right now, towards this party. So, Minister, I think we will meet again to discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U97	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U98	Thank you, good vice chairman. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that very long - term organised crime was possible in our territory. Now the question is whether we are capable of contributing to an effective investigation and judicial process. Of course, the Riigikogu and politicians in general are not an institution that judges. In this case, we should make it clear whether there are shortcomings in the law and whether or not everything is in place in the area of penal policy. It is very clear that Estonia is very gentle. It is such a Soviet legacy; we have not dealt with this issue. There have been talk here about various reverse proof obligations, etc., but I say that Parliament has neglected itself and let the government representation say that wait, we come with these proposals, you do not have to deal with it. On the contrary! How many meetings have highlighted this problem and put possible solutions on the table, why are Members still not following initiatives and proposals and going to implement them? Here again, I see that the Riigikogu is passive. It's the custom we live here, and it's the wrong custom. Secondly, can we say in this case that the allocation of competences and resources is correct? Looking at the distribution of resources and at the way we deal with the state budget, it seems, unfortunately, that it is once again an empty well for us. We would be very right today to answer these questions, but we do not have this opportunity, because it is unreasonable for the opposition to propose the transfer of any resources, that is the wrong people's proposal. Thirdly, there is the Anti-Money Laundering Commission with the government. Have we been aware so far that such a Commission is operating? That's one. And second, are we able to monitor this? No, it's not! There are many high-ranking officials from all the institutions, but it is unnecessary to expect substantial proposals for us from there, as I understand it. This committee will meet twice or three times a year and then try to respond to day-to-day policy issues. I don't think this arrangement makes any sense. What else has come up during the hearings? I also pointed out in my question a little that the various institutions of the Financial Intelligence Unit, Kripo, Financial Supervision Authority, all feel that the role of the Ministry of Finance in coordinating this work, in solving the problem, has been very passive, even though it is within its remit. I can also say very clearly that the entire government coalition has been very passive. And now there's a vigilante coming from the coalition and trying to put it all in the context of the election campaign! After all, the two major parties must fight among themselves and they need more to do so. If this is one of those possible issues, it is not credible. This is not for me to be serious! For me, it is serious that we are trying to resolve the above-mentioned issues. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U99	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U100	My message is that Parliament's role is not to be a judge; it is other institutions. And when distrust is created against both investigative and judicial authorities, it poses a high security risk to a small country. The case of Danske Bank has caused very serious reputational damage to the Estonian state. Our task is to try to make our reputation positive again. In my opinion, the drafting of reports and dealing more with it is in itself a positive sign: we are dealing with it, we are not just standing there. And I would like to emphasise once again that we must contribute to the identification of the real criminals who also carried out and perhaps are carrying out here on the territory of the Estonian state today. Unfortunately, the workload of the institutions concerned has upped them; they are unable to deal with current problems in addition to the issues of the public interest of Danske Bank. We must help to ensure that these people are found, that they are judged and punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U101	There are no more requests to speak, but the Minister exercises the right to conclude.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U102	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! People's representatives! The prosecutor's office will draw its own conclusions on the basis of the penal toolbox and present its assessments. But, of course, he is guided by this criminal law framework that applies to the rule of law. On some issues, the issue of obsolescence can undoubtedly arise and must be taken into account in the rule of law. However, I draw attention to one thing that has never been said by Mihkel Oviir: the truth does not expire. The fact that, according to the Penal Acquis, the state may not have incriminating powers in the event of any matter does not mean that the public of the Republic of Estonia, the state institutions of the Republic of Estonia, does not have the right to know how these things took place. And that is what these separate procedures, which I described and which are separate from the prosecution's proceedings, are aimed at. As far as practical steps are concerned, of course, the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office have already begun to draw up a plan for these steps in order to prevent such action in the future. For example, for the time being, a money laundering agreement as a criminal offence cannot be used to collect evidence through tracing operations. The influence of a witness to a money laundering agreement should be a separate sanctioned offence and a more severe sanction should also be provided for in the money laundering agreement. In addition, I have proposed that the European Public Prosecutor's Office be given jurisdiction to handle large-scale money laundering cases. These practical steps are in work, and in the near future we will certainly be presenting our proposals to Parliament for discussion. There was also a question of whether Parliament, as legislator, lacked competence or moral right to deal with such a matter as a representative of the people. It was, like, called into question. This is, of course, an unreasonable understanding of morally or parliamentary culture. In a parliamentary state, Parliament is dealing with matters that are important, that is crucial. Undoubtedly, this case, or it has actually been operating for a long time, is at least an important system for the public to be served in this way. It is difficult to mention other cases, which we could consider to be important, but Parliament has also assessed, for example, grain theft and other offences of lower magnitude. Mr. Helme said we should call the U.S. Attorney. I had a conversation with the U.S. temporary agent last week, and we talked about it. I say that Estonia is ready to assist the United States fully. Of course, we have a legal aid agreement and our institutions are working closely together in any case. There's no need for any special business here. There is no doubt that the United States, like Switzerland, Great Britain and other countries that are affected by this, are interested in the transfer of money to their banks, which then actually happened. It is with these countries that our prosecutor's office must cooperate. I would point out that if we are considering involving international experts to clarify the matter and build trust, this is not a precedent. I recall the case of the Estonian Maapank. The country bank was kicked out, remember, a billion kroons. It must have been during the Siimann government. The government then ordered a separate report from an expert in a third country who, due to the irony of history, was a former Danish Auditor General. Eigil Molgaard was ordered a report, and he actually gave the answer. The government at the time felt that there was a need for a side-by-side assessment, but that it could restore credibility. As far as the work of the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs is concerned, of course, representatives of the institutions must be invited to the parliament. I also encourage you to invite representatives of the Danish institutions, such as the former head of the Danish Financial Supervision Authority. Let him come and explain! By the way, in the spring she resigned. He was the former financial manager of Danske Bank. And this person actually had to organise all financial supervision in Denmark, including, I would point out, also the overall supervisory capacity of Danske Bank and its branch. I think you would also be pleased to see such persons reporting in the Riigikogu building and answering questions. And the question is not only the judicial truth, as Külliki Hatter rightly pointed out. It is simply that the thoughts expressed in Parliament to Members become part of public knowledge. This is a question that maybe very many people in Estonia or people from other parts of the world would like to ask, and Parliament can be their leader in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U103	Thank you very much, Minister. Peter Ernits, what kind of question is this? Did you accidentally get a finger on it? It happens. We have discussed the main agenda today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U104	If there's anything left to scramble, after the hammer hit, it's possible to use a free microphone, including Peter Ernitsal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the political groups do not have much right of speech, but we have several drafts at first reading in this week's programme. One of these is draft 678 which will be discussed on Wednesday and will be presented by the Minister of Justice, who has just finished. I thought I'd take the opportunity to use a free microphone and talk about this bill. This is not particularly relevant to what the bill is called, but the text is thought-provoking. This is a draft on unfair competition. I stress: the direct content of the draft is not important at the moment. But what's important is that I read it all, of course, but I didn't get it at all. And then I started looking at the coordination table, and what did I find there? That not only do I understand, but also the members of the Supreme Court do not understand. I quote: '... It doesn't really say anything about the content of a business secret. / --- / The law must be comprehensible to as many persons as possible and, if, for any reason, it is not possible to present a clear text in the law itself, the explanations must at least be given in the explanatory memorandum. It would therefore be necessary, at least in the draft explanatory memorandum, to provide examples of business secrets. ' Business secret is the central concept of this whole draft. And then the Supreme Court asks: "Does such unclear definitions have to be blindly transposed into the Estonian legal order? Has there ever been a problem on this issue before? ' I repeat: this is the opinion of the Supreme Court. And now, note what the Ministry of Justice says on black white: 'Yes, such unclear definitions must be taken over by 'blind' Estonian legal order. ' And the Ministry admits with the next sentence that there have been such things before. Thus, the Ministry of Justice, in the identity of the current minister, also tells state judges that they must keep their mouths shut and continue to serve. It is none of your business to ask what the meaning of this bill is, and even if you don't understand, continue to serve peacefully. I looked at the overview of Estonia's transposition of the Euro Directives. In 2017, 43 Euro Directives were transposed. For the transposition of the Directive, 39 amendments were made to the law or a new law was drawn up. A year earlier there were 21 of them and a total of 17 infringement proceedings. And now an interesting thing: Estonia is one of the best purchasers of European Union directives. Estonia is one of the four EU Member States with the least mistransmitted directives: the cross compliance deficit is only 0,2%. Secondly, the average delay in transposing directives in Estonia is 7.2 months, elsewhere is 10.1. And thirdly, Estonia is also very good in terms of the number of infringement proceedings initiated: four at the back. Italy, Germany and Spain are the most serious infringements. By the way, the draft that we are going to discuss on Wednesday should have been adopted by summer. And I'm going to ask you now, I'm about to finish what I'm going to call it. Estonia is indeed a very busy country. We accept anything, and even if our most brilliant heads, the judges of state, do not understand a single thing. And now I had to hear the Honorable Minister of Justice explain very passionately here that we are a sovereign state, we control our territory and everything that is going on here. And I must believe that we are sovereign members of the sovereign parliament of the sovereign state. Yeah, it's true, the few left in the hall maybe are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U106	It was almost the first case in the history of this hall that the bill was commented before its first reading, but Mr Ernits took advantage of this opportunity. It is common for non-groups ambassadors to make inquiries, for example, to ministers. True, it takes quite a while to get answers. That was also the reason why the chair allowed Peter Ernitsa to speak a little longer than he had promised. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U107	Honourable President-in-Office! Honourable colleagues! Today I want to talk to you again about Valga Hospital's maternity department. Not just to talk, but to put it on the midterm. Two weeks of this was not mentioned, because I did not want to influence the Labour Dispute Committee, which was currently dealing with the decision taken on 1 July on the withdrawal of doctors from the closed maternity department. They weren't laid off, they were fired, but they were fired from a department that no longer existed. We were waiting for the answer to be given to the decision of the Labour Dispute Committee. And the decision came. And the decision was interesting: vassive and forged documents, which I wanted to talk about today. The dates in these documents are wrong, the texts are wrong, the texts do not overlap, the letters do not have numbers. Even the lowest level of officials cannot afford to suffer such craziness. If such mistakes are made at a university where you also learn how to write letters, prepare answers and report, then you will get a very bad grade and have to take a re-examination. But there are no re-experiments in real life. Real life has actions, punishments and results. I have handed over all these documents from the Labour Dispute Committee to a very respectable law firm, I am not currently naming a name, and it is a matter of processing. Very serious violations have already been identified, precisely in terms of administration. The violations of the operating procedures began on the board of the board of the Valga Hospital, started on the management board of the University of Tartu Hospital and reached out to the health insurance fund. On the basis of these same data, criminal proceedings are, in principle, initiated because these offences constitute a criminal offence. So from some point on, the investigation is going to be very accurate, perhaps the DA's office. And then we'll see what comes out of it. Now, to generalise what happened, when it comes to medicine, to medical procurement and to moving our taxpayers' money in the medical field, there is a mess everywhere. Is it possible that Valga's maternity department did not need to be closed because there were few births, but rather because it was someone's business plan? The chairman of the board of two hospitals could be the same person and take completely different decisions. Was that someone's business plan? Did the University of Tartu Hospital want to seduce South-East Estonia and South-Estonia because it was not good for people, but was someone's business plan? And now does the University of Tartu Hospital want to seduce the city of Tallinn? Is it good for people, or is this someone's business plan? It would be a great deal of strength and strength for the prosecutor's office and the law firm I hired, and who I asked to help unravel this mess! I think that there will soon be no committees or any other matter being formed here, but will be an act of revealing a criminal offence and we will find out what is going on in certain medical facilities with vital departments. We need maternity departments, we need nose, throat, ear doctors, ladies and men's doctors, any doctors. Without an entire citizen, there's no point in building a country. Thank you and the strength and strength for us!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-10-08_U108	Dear colleagues Peter, Toomas and Märt and hopefully dozens of colleagues in front of the screens, today's session is closed. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00 in the morning. Closure of the sitting at 5.52 p.m.
