ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. From the Monday of the 16th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu, we begin somewhat specially, namely the announcements. The first announcement is this: Last Friday, the basketball team of the Riigikogu won the Baltic Assembly tournament for the 12th time in a row. [[Let's hear it.]] Last Saturday, the football team of the Riigikogu won for the first time two parliamentary and two city football tournaments. [[Let's hear it.]] With these messages, we also welcome the members of the Lithuanian Parliament who are on the balcony. [[Let's hear it.]] But now you can hand over drafts and inquiries. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I hand over the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of a Special Committee against Corruption'. This draft decision is very simple. We propose that Mr Talvik be appointed as a member of the Special Committee against Corruption in place of Mr Herkel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U3	As representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U4	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching seven draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Fertiliser Act and the State Fees Act. Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors. Thirdly, the draft law amending labour market services and benefits and other laws. Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and related other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Fifth, the water bill. Sixthly, the Bill of Accession to the Nagoya Protocol of the Convention on Biological Diversity on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits from their Use. Seventh, the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of these three draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U5	I have adopted eight drafts. We act with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are currently 80 members of the Riigikogu. Clarification and validation of the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to exclude the fourth item on the agenda of the Tuesday session of this working week, the second reading of the draft Personal Data Protection Act 616 initiated by the Government of the Republic. With this amendment, honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the 16th working week of the VII plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. There are 75 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no votes against, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Is it a procedural question? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Tahaks vabas mikrofonis sõna.'???]] But I haven't hit you with a hammer yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U6	Free mike. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U7	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to talk about regional policy and I wanted to talk about Estonia's security and strategic threats. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U8	One moment, March Sults! Honourable Riigikogu, we honor MP Märt Sults and his constituents! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U9	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. I wanted to talk to you about Valga's hospital. I wanted to talk to you about Valga's maternity department. I wanted to talk about chronology, remind you of that. Some time ago, the news came, the bad news that Põlva and Valga Hospital's maternity department was closing down, closing down. Members of both communities, citizens, young mothers, young fathers, grandfathers and grandmothers, started to do so because they saw the danger and the risk of security. The women of Valgamaa became active and asked me for advice on how to draw up a petition. We made a petition with over 3,000 signatures, but they were accredited 1700 or 1600, I can't say exactly how many were accredited right now. We handed the petition over to the President of the Riigikogu, Mr Nestor. The work went on very quickly. Thank you very much to the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Kütt, that the same subject, or obstetrics, was discussed very quickly in the Social Committee on Hospitals in South-East Estonia. Before that, there was an open session, where representatives of the community, top doctors, women's doctors, pediatricians, as well as members of the Social Affairs Committee, and as a guest, i.e. as a spokesperson, I also got the floor. The work was done, everyone agreed that this issue or the problem that arose does not just mean the number of births per year, for example, in Valgas, three children were born yesterday, be they healthy and mothers and fathers healthy, but it is a financial process. It turned out that the state, the Riigikogu and the ministers actually do not have the right to intervene anywhere, because it is private capital and money or an industry that already has private capital in it and no one but the hospital council has that right there. It also occurred that there are all top specialists on the hospital board, but, take a finger, decision-makers are politicians. So, basically, the head of the University of Tartu Hospital and the chairman of the supervisory board is Comrade Klaas, a member of the board is Mr Einasto. Then, thanks to a public hearing organised by the Social Affairs Committee, the councils of hospitals held meetings. And then, oh, a miracle, oh, a miracle! It happened that meetings took place in Põlva Hospital, Valga Hospital, and Võru Hospital. One day, but at different times. So, this was all agreed before and the scenario was over. Then the funny thing happened: at the Põlva Hospital Council meeting, Mr Einasto voted in favour of the hospital's survival, but in Valga Hospital, the chairman of the board voted against. I mean, the hospital in Valga was at 3rd and the chairman of the council decided. It was decided to close the maternity department at Valga Hospital on the grounds that the doctor was ill. At the same time, two or three years ago, a doctor was offered to work and was not hired there. It was also argued that the exchanges were not covered, which is unsubstantiated, because Mr Seer, a member of the board of the Valga Hospital, did not pass on information to the University of Tartu Hospital, which showed that the exchanges were all covered in Valga. The media talked about this every day, for a whole week, all this information is a week old, the meetings took place last Monday, and four or five-six sources of information were given during this week. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U10	There's no extra time in the free microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U11	If you put it all together, the thing about Valga Hospital is that all the criteria are met, it concerns staff, blood bank, surgery, and also gynecology. All specialists are available in the press, which is not available in other hospitals. At the same time, our hospital, or Valga Hospital, is blackmailed and the personnel smeared beyond all the limits of tolerance. Thank you. I got a part of what I said, it's a big deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-28_U12	The free microphone is finished. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 3.12.
