ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 5th working week Tuesday session. As usual, at the beginning of the sitting there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U2	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that alcohol is not the most useful thing to consume, especially when you take a lot of it. We also know that price is one factor that affects alcohol consumption, but not the only one. Now we have all heard that the sharp rise in alcohol duty has led our people, especially from the south of Estonia, to purchase both alcohol and other goods. The consequence is that our excise duties have fallen badly: they have fallen below 2015 levels. Our budgetary plans have not been implemented, precisely because the price increase has been very steep. We have heard that the current government cannot decide what to do. We come to the rescue and present a bill aimed at bringing alcohol excises back to their former levels. Let us hope for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have adopted one draft and, of course, the Board of the Riigikogu will decide on its further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now it's time to do the presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 19 members of the Riigikogu missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we also have a diplomatic corps in the Chamber, because we have a foreign policy debate. But before we can go to the foreign policy debate, we have left over from last week the members of the Riigikogu Henn Põljaasa, Jaanus Karilaidi, Martin Helme, Igor Gräzini, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Silla, Peeter Ernitsa, Madis Milling, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Tarmo Kruusimäe and Märt Sults presented the Riigikogu's decision 'on the rehabilitation of the Union of Estonian War of Independence and its associated persons and organisations' with the number 552. We did not have this debate with Jaak Madison's request to speak, and Jüri Adams and Aadu Must are still registered. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U5	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U6	Please, three more minutes! Ladies and gentlemen, please be a little quieter in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U7	The draft decision of the Riigikogu coming to the vote today is marked, given the history of our statehood, the birth of the state and also the stains of the 1930s. In 11 days, we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of our country. All the more reason to ask ourselves whether we have done our utmost to ensure that the Estonian state remains and that its nationality lasts until the end of time, as required by the Constitution of the Republic. In particular, we, the representatives of the legislative authorities, who have taken an oath to protect constitutional order and to ensure compliance with the obligations arising from it, need this internal appeal. Who doesn't remember the past, lives without the future, that saying applies to this draft decision more than we may think at first glance. When it comes to constitutional order and its protection, it is impossible to overcome or reverse the fact that our 100 years of national statehood will also be the time to overthrow the constitutional order. This is a story of our history that must be acknowledged and regretted by mistakes made. Moreover, every effort must be made to ensure that such mistakes do not recur. One of the prerequisites for this is the recognition of past mistakes and the attempt to remedy evil and the pursuit of political self-interest, which caused the suffering of innocent people. These innocent people were Estonian patriots and founders of our country. These people were men who fought with selflessness and risked their lives to establish our country. These men couldn't watch the political cow trade that took over in the late 1920s. The original euphoria of independence was quickly replaced by nepotism and selfishness. This was an incentive for the freedom fighters to become active politically as founders of this country on the battlefield, and they could not and could not stand by for the vulgar political gamble. Years pass, but human nature doesn't change. There is also no change in one type of people just politicians. There were also politicians in the 1930s Parliament whose main concern was to get back elected. Almost everything was done for it. Another major concern was the first: the desire to ensure a comfortable and carefree life, which was undoubtedly easier to achieve in the Riigikogu than in many other occupations. Is it different now, in 2018? In spite of someone in particular, I admit that I'm afraid not much has changed. But can it change if human nature doesn't change? However, together, we are able to differ greatly from the 1934 MEPs who silently approved the coup and the imprisonment of nearly 500 freedom fighters. These MEPs watched with silent approval as Konstantin Päts, together with Johan Laidoner and August Reiga, established a state of defence on 12 March 1934. And for a shameful, deplorable reason: because in April of the same year, when you had to come to the elections, many would have lost their jobs because the freedom fighters were too popular for them. In the autumn of 1934, when neither the old Riigikogu nor the new elections were convened, should we not look for the reasons why we lost our independence without the slightest resistance? We don't know that, and we won't know that. All we know is that the imprisonment of freedom fighters and possibly one murder destroyed democracy in Estonia. We will probably never know whether the fall of the substantive leader of the freedom fighters, Artur Sirk, from the balcony on the second floor of one hotel in Luxembourg was a suicide, or whether it was related to the fact that on the same day at the end of July 1937 there were three Estonian political police agents on a foreign mission in Luxembourg. It is clear that a country in which a small faction of selfish politicians represents only its own selfish interests cannot remain independent. In one way, however, historic justice will certainly be established in this 100th year of the Republic's birth. Artur Sirk's statue will be completed in the spring, which will find a dignified place in the cemetery of his birth next to the statue of the War of Independence. However, the greatest force for justice is the Parliament, which today has the opportunity to make up for the mistakes made in the past and to face the 200th anniversary of our country with an honest eye. Do not miss this opportunity because, as we know all too much about history, you never know what tomorrow will bring. Thanks to me!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U8	Next, Jüri Adams, speaking on behalf of the Free Party, is welcome to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U9	Thank you, President of the sitting. I'm asking for more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U10	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U11	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech is on three issues. First of all, I want to talk about the different meanings of the words'rehabilitation' and'rehabilitation'. I would also like to talk about today's attitude towards the movement of the Vaps, or freedom fighters, and thirdly about the relationship between this draft and today's political action. In the dictionary, we find that the foreign word'rehabilitation' now has three meanings in Estonia. Of these, the most common is the restoration of health and work ability, which almost every person knows is that this is the meaning. The second meaning is legal or legal: rehabilitation is the surrender of rights withdrawn by a court judgment. This is mostly after an ex post review of an individual judgment, usually in the cassation procedure, as there has been some new evidence that is not previously known. This kind of rehabilitation still happens, and it's pretty routine. And the third meaning that I have not seen much in my life, but what I see as being meant by the drafters is the restoration of honor and good name. First of all, the legal meaning of rehabilitation. Our people remember the time when the consequences of the legal crimes committed by the Soviet authorities were being mitigated by actions called rehabilitation, which lasted for many years during the end period of the Soviet Union. The judgments of the time, as well as the repression without judicial decisions, or expulsion, which the Estonian people call deportation, were declared unfair and called rehabilitation. It also had many practical implications. When the independence of the Republic of Estonia was restored, the rehabilitation work of the Soviet Union, which was mainly carried out in Estonia by the Supreme Court at the time, had not yet been completed, and one of the first tasks of the Republic of Estonia was to decide what to do with this process. A decision was taken that it would no longer be continued on a case-by-case basis, and everyone who had not yet been rehabilitated was declared rehabilitated. This is the answer to the question why the word'rehabilitation' has been used in Estonian law at all. It has been used in one case, and it was justified, but I wouldn't conclude from this that it still needs to be used again. Now, this bill is kind of weird. I have to admit, I haven't seen anything like it yet. We asked Mr Põllea of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that we imagine that this decision would be taken. What, then, will result? Will there be any practical result? These people are, of course, dead, but even for the dead, there may be some changes to the documents even afterwards. Mr Arable confirmed that there would be no practical consequence, at least he could not imagine it. But then there is the question of why we should deal with this if there is no practical consequence. And the answer is, as the authors say, the aim is to restore honor and good name. My main point now is that there is no need to reinstate the honour and good name of the freedom fighters, because, in the meantime, history has been re-evaluated and basically their honor and good name has been restored. This is generally acknowledged, and I would argue that this process has already crossed the border, to praise them too much for no reason, and to criticise their political opponents quite unduly. How has the process of restoring honor and good name taken place? A number of books have appeared, and many people have dealt with it. In my opinion, William Tominga's book 'The Silent Era in Estonia' has made the biggest contribution, but in essence, one of the most productive historians of our external Estonia, named Rein Marandi, has done a very great job. He has written two volumes of the history of the freedom fighters under the title 'Black and White Flag'. They both appeared in Sweden and together there are some 800 pages of this historical study. I think one explanation for the current situation that we have to deal with this issue is that the studies of Marand in Estonia are hardly familiar. They haven't been released here, and as far as I know, they don't exist online either. No one has dealt with this directly. These are not the only examples. We have several great cultural achievements of foreign Estonians, such as the conceptual dictionary of the Estonian language of Saareste and the four-volume German work by Oskar Loorits of Estonian folk religion, which is actually almost unknown in their home country. I think that our Minister of Culture could take the place of bringing and introducing these works to their homeland. So I would rather not address the issue of rehabilitation. I have to admit, I feel in my soul no need to change my opinion about freedom fighters either for the better or for the worse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U12	Aadu Black, on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! On the 10th birthday of the Republic of Estonia, one of Estonia's leading economists, Nikolai Köstner, asked whether Estonia's independence was economically justified. Why would he ask that? But because for ten years, wise heads had been saying that if you approach and calculate the science, Estonia's independence is not likely. What I'm interested in today is whether or not there's a chance of rehabilitating the brats in this hall. There are many reasons why it can be predicted that there may not be one. The first of them is a powerful propaganda campaign launched in the 1930s. I'll give you a thought assignment, maybe you'll think along. I borrow this example from the outstanding Estonian diplomat, Karl Robert Pusta, who asked: 'How will you behave if you want to kill the neighbor's dog? He's barking at you. Some run after a stick, the other one wants to take a rock, the third one runs after a gun. " Pusta thinks that these are poor solutions, and he teaches: " Scream loudly over the village: 'This dog is rabid! 'And that's exactly what the regime did to the freedom fighters movement. From 1930 on, it was not possible to say that the accusations against the freedom fighters were fabricated, did not hold true. The people only learned what the prosecutors said. Sometimes people ask me to hear what the archives say. The books that have already been mentioned, such as Marand's, and the even more interesting monograph of Andres Kasekamp, which has brought this subject to international circulation, are based mainly on printed material, journalism. It might seem like we're going to the archives, so we'll probably find massive material that puts everything in place. You know, I don't know if anyone in the archives has studied these materials except me. If so, raise your hand. It's a strange material: it's empty. There's a lot of papers, a lot of statements, who wants to buy a journal, who wants a new light bulb. They are also trying to prove that the defendants and supporters are bad people, but they cannot find the evidence. Actually, it's pretty clear to historians. A number of well-known investigators have been appointed. Take Ago Pajur seriously, take Jack White seriously. They've been studying material in the archives. But I think there's a more understandable lawyer's message in this hall. The constitutional crisis that began in 1934 has been written by Estonian top lawyer and well-known politician Rait Maruste, who has stated that the movement and popularity of the braves among the people predicted Päts to lose power in the forthcoming elections, and so he decided, with the support of his Farmers' Councils and Sots and the Russian party, to take a coup. Maruse has also recalled Päts' infamous assessment of the health status of the Estonian people: the people are sick; we must show its symptoms so that it can be treated. According to the Martus, the fact that the Head of State declared his people sick was still unique in Europe, which at the time tended to authoritarianism. Europe's other dictators or auto-degrees did not go that far. The fact that the rehabilitation of freedom fighters is unlikely is probably also to blame for historians who have written too little or only written about this subject abroad. And democratic parliamentaryism is also to blame. Now think about it: we might find out here how the work was, but that's not enough. I can explain, bring the facts, and hold a lecture course, but as long as we haven't explained enough to our constituents, it's not appropriate for the Riigikogu to vote the other way than the people know in this country, under the influence of past propaganda campaigns. At times, it has been thought that the blame for the warts is compounded by their being condemned in Soviet times, being shot in concentration camps at large. There's been a question of what a conspiracy was there, how the Päts and the Soviet occupation were walking in one foot. You know, that's exactly what the archives explain. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U14	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U15	When assessing the Soviet repression, it is clearly stated that the potential leaders of the defeated people had to be destroyed. And, unfortunately, the leaders were seen. A good colleague, Ants Laaneots, asked how Tambek felt about this and what Päts thought. And indeed, it is very interesting to read in the Tambek book what Päts thought then. Päts said, believe me, Mr. Tambek, I now know more about these processes than any man loves. The freedom fighters never wanted to betray the Fatherland. Can I be more clear? Now, we still have a number of big and difficult problems. One strong argument against rehabilitating the warts is that some people believe it could trigger a new witch hunt. In fact, we can see that it is very easy to take over in the 1930s, at a very crazy time, unfinished fighting, picking roles and putting on. Maybe we can put somebody else away! There's a threat. Except, of course, smart parliaments do not do this; it is the task of a wise parliament to condemn. No, not one or the other detail, but to declare condemnation. The era in which the outcome of the trials depended on whether someone is in power in the opposition or in the coalition must be renounced. It cannot be that the 1 000 first ranking corruptions or state thieves are driving in a carriage, as was said in the Estonian era, but the little brothers are on the gallows. Now, one more thing. One funny concern about rehabilitating the brats is that some say that maybe it's damaging the continuity of Estonia's state, but we're showing our mistakes. You know, good fellows, there is no country that wouldn't have been led by mistakes. The weak feel that it should not be spoken of, the strong feel that mistakes need to be corrected. I really think that the country has not said its message, and that is what is being debated. Some history teachers speak the same way, some speak the other way, because the state's position is a surprise-surprise! No, it's not. I think it will be difficult for the Estonian state to enter the second century of its history with an honest face if historical injustice is not remedied and innocently condemned people are not rehabilitated. Now is the time to clean the stables of our 100-year-old country, Augeias, so that our next century will be a whole new one. It's a shame I couldn't talk about dozens of details, and I only dealt with it as a fragmentarium, but maybe it's a little helpful too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U16	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Hardi Volmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U17	Chairman! Honourable colleagues! Here in this remote control and in this house, there has been a history, even in the recent past, and there has been a debate on this subject, so I would not very much like to tempt you with some historical insight into the subject. But I, as a social democrat, have a somewhat ironic background standing here in front of you. As we know, at least during the interwar period, freedom fighters were the most evil vampire in Estonia. But I am not standing here in front of you to try to make up for some of the hogs of those old bastards, because I believe that our common ground with these long-standing ideological colleagues is not so great. Rather, in the context of this issue, I would speak in a rather small way, by using historians and quotations, from an extremely popular political term from ancient Rome, which the Soviet history science inscribed above all to freedom fighters, as I remember from my schooling. On the other hand, we have the word sucked in with milk because of the political rhetoric that has been used by our eastern neighbour for almost the entire 20th century. This word, this term, is 'fascism' or 'fascists'. As we know, by today, the word has actually acquired a tragic connotation; it is completely depleted in its substance. But let us recall Italy, or the Italians, that is, of course, a longer story, let us recall the ethymological background of the word. Let's say, in the interwar period, the great economic crisis caused this word to flow across Europe, its sexy and popularity. But on coming back to Estonia, I quote Jaak Valge first: 'The term of fascism went on to describe the political forces of Estonia in the spring of 1923. ' About the same time, it was actually brought to the table from Russia by no one other than the great leader Vladimir Ilyich Lenin himself. 'The Soviet ambassador Leonid Stark named Admiral Pitka's followers in April 1923 who organized an anti-Soviet demonstration. ' The voice of the Estonian communists found that there are no fascist organisations that terrorise workers in Estonia, but the Estonian government itself is fascist. 'It was Päts' government, and Päts and his party continued to be called fascist by Estonian communists. So the Estonian communists were familiar with the new communist theory and loyal followers of their mother organisation. /---/ 'Social democracy and fascism,' said one German Communist leader Hermann Remmele in 1924; 'is two instruments of the same social function, two weapons. " And Stalin said this: " Fascism is a militant organization of bourgeoisism based on social democracy. Social democracy is objectively taking the moderate wing of fascism. These organisations are complementary. They're twin brothers. '' More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U18	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U19	According to Jaak Valge, the socialist socialist fascists were appointed until 1935 when the policy of the Comintern and the Socialist Working International went into operation. 'Differently from communists of Estonian origin, whose influence in society fell sharply after 1924, Estonian socialists were influential in Estonian society; they were the most popular party in Estonia between 1926 and 1932. ' At the same time, socialist leading theorists had called fascists all right-wing movements. '1926. In 1996, the Socialist newspaper called the Farmers' Council newspaper Kaja fascist, and the policy of Diamond, Einbund and Soots called homemade fascism. In the second half of the 1920s, Nigol Andresen consistently called the Estonian Defence League a fascist organisation. In 1931, one of the Socialist leaders Aleksander Oinas claimed that Jaan Tõnisson's son Ilmar Tõnisson organizes a fascist student body at the University of Tartu. Aleksander Jõeäär, Socialist MEP, spoke in 1933 at the Soviet embassy that his partymates August Rei and Karl Ast were fascists. ' But the main front line of internal politics in Estonia in the early 1930s, as I mentioned, ran between the Soviets and the freedom fighters. 'And this tragic confrontation between the socialists and the freedom fighters was the international situation or, if you will, the inevitability of the transnational forces. " The political struggle, as we know, often went into the physical hands of speech meetings. Among the people, the infamous men of the warlocks and the gymnastics of the sots tested their strength, and it is noteworthy that it was the souls of the factory workers who fought first and foremost. Most of the people, or farmers, could no longer be retrieved from Päts' pockets. But not to get too long, I'll bring you some wonderful facts that I managed to track down from different sources. The media lexics at the time describes the political situation in 1933 and it is somewhat frighteningly familiar: expressions such as poorly working state machinery, list elections, no electoral threshold, dictatorship of fragmented political parties in the Riigikogu, back rooms, cow trade, permanent scandals, short-term coalition governments, government and the head of state capable of balancing the Riigikogu lack. Two draft amendments to the Constitution adopted by the Riigikogu fail in referendums for various reasons. At the same time, the freedom fighters are gaining strength. That's it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U20	You have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U21	So, the exciting and kind of tragic part is out of this end. But what can I say other than that it is sometimes hoped that it will not be another harvest with which to cut Estonian society in half. Perhaps our unity is still so strong and resilient. The most important thing, however, is that our history books give the most adequate, as truthful a picture as possible of the time when future generations would not have to fight over all sorts of differences of opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U22	Ladies and gentlemen, There's no more calls. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 552 at first reading and we need to vote on it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 552 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu supported the commission's proposal, 22 against, one abstention. Draft Decision 552 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U23	Honourable Riigikogu! Excellencys! Honourable guests! We will start the discussion of Estonian foreign policy as a key national issue. I would like to remind you of the procedure for the foreign policy debate. According to § 153 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, we appointed the following procedure on the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the Management Board. First, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser's presentation is up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 90 minutes. The presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will then take up to 15 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may put together two oral questions, followed by negotiations. In the negotiations, first of all, I would like to remind you, representatives of the political groups. At the end of the discussion, the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I would also like to remind you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed that, if necessary, the present sitting be extended until 14 p.m. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honorable guests! We are living in a time of faster and faster change, and these changes, of course, also affect international relations and global power ratios. A rule-based multilateral system of international relations faces serious challenges. The sustainability of the democratic legal order and the global economic model has been called into question in many respects. At the same time, the influence and economic share of the West in the world continues to decline gradually. The emergence of geopolitics and the tightening of the global security situation will also continue. The spectrum of threats is broad and passionate: terrorism, proliferation of nuclear weapons, unpredictable behaviour of dictators, cyber threats. However, the new threats have not replaced the traditional ones, but are added to them, as the conventional military threats have not disappeared. The security of societies, as well as of countries, is increasingly affected by the blurring of truth, the cultivation of suspicion and distrust, and psychological manipulation. There is less and less what is sure, clear and permanent. Good listeners! This year the Republic of Estonia is celebrating its 100th birthday. Looking back over the first hundred years of our independent statehood, we can be proud that we have had enough wisdom and patience through all our trials, wars, occupations and repression as a nation to remain and remain ourselves, sustaining Estonia's state, nation, language and culture. We can say: we are winners. However, today we have reached a new roadblock. We have a choice whether to remain true to the fundamental values of liberal democracy that have led us to this day, or to be mistaken for some unfamiliar sidetrack. Let me mention here the rule-based multilateral world order, which has served us well in the quarter century following the restoration of independence. In recent years, one of the greatest and most fundamental challenges facing democratic countries and their governments has been the challenge of challenging the values of liberal democracy, both globally, within the European Union and in Estonia. Let us remember that, when we regain independence, our ambition was to be a fully-fledged European nation and to return to this European family, which is held together by common values. We became a member of the European Union and NATO because we wanted to share the same values with Europe in defending human rights, the rule of law and a free market economy. In a transatlantic space, the underestimation of values and the interests that result from them, or the partial or total abandonment of them, would be a major and fatal mistake under the pressure of populism, which we cannot and can not afford. The liberal democracy that emerged from the Enlightenment Age and the ideals of the French Revolution, on which, among other things, today's rule-based world order is based, may not be entirely flawless, but it is the best humanity has been able to come up with and bring to life. Let us think for a moment about universal human rights, including minority rights and human dignity, but also about taking responsibility for our actions and personal freedoms. They have been fought at the cost of sweat and tears, often human lives. We have no right or authority to change it into change. A multilateral system of international relations based on rules that respect our beliefs has enabled us to safeguard our freedom and security and to promote economic prosperity. This system will continue to serve us if we take due care of it ourselves with our allies and partners. Today, our foreign policy thinking and action stand on a solid basis, but in the future we need to be even bolder and even more creative. We must be open to the world around us, work together and support other countries and nations that urgently need it. In addition to bilateral cooperation with its key partners, Estonia has been a very active and constructive contributor to numerous international organisations, including, of course, the UN, which is the main framework organisation of the rule-based world order. It is in the UN Security Council that all questions concerning the welfare and security of the world, and therefore Estonia, are raised directly or indirectly. Global issues, whether climate or development, poverty reduction or better access to education, can best be addressed through the UN. The illegal annexation of Crimea and Russia's aggression in Eastern Ukraine have proved to us convincingly that the security of the whole of Europe and our immediate region also needs attention at global level. I am convinced that Estonia's security interests are most protected when the UN Security Council includes a state based in our region with similar values and security brains. This is why Estonia is applying for non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council for the years 2020 and 2021. We can already say that in the course of our candidacy we have made Estonia bigger and more well-known by introducing our interests and priorities in distant parts of the world. I would also like to thank the representatives of the people who have participated and contributed to this work. Good listeners! Let me now go to the three key themes on which I would like to focus today. These are security, our common future in Europe and the protection of our citizens and the promotion of business interests. I'll start with security. I am convinced that the best medicine against any security threat is the unity of our allies and partners who value the same values. NATO is and will remain the cornerstone of Estonia's military defence, and our NATO membership and Article 5 of the NATO Treaty are the most effective deterrent to our opponents. The implementation of the decisions of the Warsaw Summit, including the arrival of the Allied units deployed in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, has significantly strengthened our security. This year we are preparing for the NATO summit in Brussels in July, where we will focus on how to make the Alliance's deterrence even stronger. As important as NATO's military readiness is solidarity in the European Union, as well as cooperation between the European Union and NATO. The European Union's global strategy underlines the need for a stronger Europe. This is one of the orientations for strengthening the European Union's defence cooperation. An active and secure common foreign and security policy offers additional opportunities to prevent security threats. PESCO provides an opportunity to strengthen the real defence capabilities of the Member States, optimise costs, improve awareness of the situation and, if necessary, accelerate the deployment of units. The greater contribution of Europe's allies will, of course, also improve transatlantic security. Of course, not all the questions on the different shores of the Atlantic are always in agreement. There's a certain difference now, and it's been before, but it doesn't have to get darkened. I can confirm that Europe's relations with the United States are still secure. This is also confirmed by the decisions taken by the United States on the security of Europe and the resources to implement them. Estonia's bilateral relations with the US are also good and solid. Never before has Estonia reached the surface of such a large number of high-level visitors from behind the ocean as in the last year. The United States' awareness of the strategic situation in our region has increased considerably in recent years and cooperation has intensified. A strong transatlantic link is in the interests of both Europeans and Americans. The closer Europe and America are able to coordinate their policies on complex and sensitive issues such as the security situation in the Korean Peninsula, the future of the Iranian nuclear treaty, the Middle East peace process or sanctions against violations of international law, the greater the likelihood of success. The unity of our allies is our strength. For years, extremist groups have been challenging our security and democratic legal order, using terrorist means to achieve their goals. The threats that threaten Europe from the south have not disappeared. They must be dealt with in cooperation with the UN, the European Union and NATO on all the shores of the Mediterranean. The spread of extremist ideologies and terrorism are long-term and multifaceted security threats. The fight with them also involves military aspects, but sustainable solutions must go far beyond countering terrorism's arms, financing or propaganda on the Internet. It is possible to withdraw the territory from an organisation called the Islamic State and the international coalition has made progress in the last year, but the fight on the ideological and psychological continent is far from over. In the long term, the economic development of areas where terrorism is growing and the improvement of people's employment and education opportunities will be a success. Good listeners! Let me now look at the future of Europe. In a few months, Estonia will have 14 years of fulfillment as a member of the European Union. What have these years been for Estonia and Europe? As part of the common European economic space, the volume of the Estonian economy has multiplied. Learning, working and travelling in the Member States of the European Union have become part of our daily everyday life. Unfortunately, we often forget these benefits, complaining about bureaucracy and, as if, political choices imposed on us from the outside. In Estonia, too, we have become more and more artificially and day-to-day driven by the interests of the European Union, as if participation in the European Union's common decisions and policies would undermine our sovereignty, among other things. Such rhetoric creates irrational fears in society but, unfortunately, does not offer any constructive solutions. I therefore consider this to be deeply irresponsible. No decision will be reached in Europe without our involvement. The future of the European Union is more than we acknowledge, in our own hands. With the experience of a successful Presidency, we can remain at the forefront of the future development of the European Union by intensifying our cooperation with the Nordic, Latvian, Lithuanian, Benelux, France, Germany and also with several other Member States acting responsibly. In those policy areas where we move at so-called multiple speeds, we prefer to move forward together with as many as possible, keeping the door open for those who want to join later. In order to make our Union better and closer to the citizens in order to enable the leaders of the Member States to hold deeper political debates, the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, has launched the so-called Leaders-agenda, which is the meeting of the leaders of the Member States, to discuss priority issues. Nine such informal discussions should take place this year. But Europe's future cannot, of course, be shaped solely by leaders and other high-ranking officials. I hope that we will also have a serious debate with the participation of sociologists, economists, thinkers, i.e. all of us. I also invite you to think along and participate in the debate on the future of the European Union, in order to make the European Union just as the people of Estonia need it. It is important to keep people's faith in Europe. Freedoms are in the DNA of the European Union, but their promotion must continue with policies that provide confidence for citizens. Protecting borders, dealing with immigration, promoting the economy, fighting corruption is also very important. It is important to create synergies between the various policies of the European Union, for example in the field of economic and social policy. Coordination between internal and external security activities is necessary to ensure the security and security of people. The economic well-being and standard of living of European countries are largely linked to associations covering all regions of the European Union, which is why successful energy and transport projects are also important. The European Union's capacity to act at times of crisis is also important. This is confirmed by the European Union's common position on Russia's aggression against Ukraine. The European Union stands firm for the fundamental principles of the European security organisation and is responsible for a brutal violation of international law. At a time when Ukraine is approaching the 2019 elections, together with all the other Ukrainian friends and donors, we must fully support important reforms and, at the same time, be demanding in the fight against corruption. It is in this way that we best support Ukraine's sovereignty and the right to self-determination. Of course, our interest and aim is to contribute to the reforms of all six Eastern partners, especially with regard to the three associated partners, which means Georgia and Moldova, in addition to Ukraine. The European aspirations of these peoples have our full support. We also confirmed this at the Eastern Partnership Summit in late November. In the beginning of the year, the debate on the new budgetary framework of the European Union will be important for Estonia, where the forthcoming departure of one large Member State from the European Union must be taken into account. As a result, our common budget may fall. In Estonia's view, if we want a more efficient and functional Europe, we must also be prepared to contribute a little more now as a somewhat more prosperous Member State. Estonia has so far been one of the largest beneficiaries of the European Union budget. On average, we have recovered 3.5 euros for every euro paid up. We will certainly remain net recipients in the next budget period. The European Union's resources have significantly supported the implementation of our structural reforms, helped to ensure growth and jobs, to develop infrastructure and to promote research. A number of priority projects have also been planned for Estonia, including Rail Baltic, to synchronise the electricity network with that of Europe as part of the possible funding of the next budget period. Honourable listeners! Next, I will focus on protecting the economic interests of our citizens and Estonia in the world. The crises and terrorist acts of recent years, including in Europe, have heightened people's understanding of possible threats abroad. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done everything in its power to ensure that our people are better protected and that our citizens' knowledge of travel destinations is timely and relevant. Our people can get help from Estonian embassies and honorary consuls, our partners and representatives of the European Union in every place in the world. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs offers 24-hour emergency call and promptly updates information about safe travel on its website. We have managed to solve the most complex consular cases in Iraq, India and Afghanistan, and so far we have managed to bring all our people home happyly. This has come about thanks to the full commitment, experience and patience of Estonian diplomats and officials and, of course, to the involvement of our allies and partners. Our business and economic diplomats are equally committed. The share of exports in our GDP is 80%. This is one of the highest indicators, both within the European Union and globally. Cheap labour and cheap production as our former competitive advantages are disappearing. At the same time, Estonia's success story and our global opportunities are far greater than we may have gone, especially as a developer and provider of e-governance and IT services. Access to the European Union's common market in the context of a strong free trade system based on WTO rules will also help us to develop vigorously in new conditions where most of the world's economic growth will take place outside the European Union. Since we also need a global economic environment as an open economy for further growth, we will continue our efforts to conclude free trade agreements with all important partners in Estonia. Some positive examples of the recent past: the free trade agreement with Canada, which we have provisionally entered into force, as well as the negotiations with Japan on a free trade agreement. The key to promoting our business interests may no longer be to do more than so far, to a greater extent. Rather, success results in the determined development of its niche capabilities. We also need to be able to better combine different public resources and capabilities with those of private companies in the interests of business. Economic well-being and security are two sides of one coin: active and determined business diplomacy supports our foreign and security policy; stability with a secure environment creates prerequisites for successful economic development. Close integration and cooperation, joint efforts to promote economic interests with the private sector and other authorities are as important as cooperation with our allies to ensure our security. Development cooperation also stands for the interests of our people in the long term. Estonia has confirmed its desire to contribute 0.33% of GDP to development cooperation by 2030. At present, the figure is just under 0.2%. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Let me conclude with the words of Jaan Tõnisson, who 100 years ago, even before the declaration of Estonia's independence, wrote: 'It is wise to refer to persons whose task it is to stand up for our national interests outside our home country. " Thus Estonia's foreign policy and diplomacy began. On 14 November this year, we are celebrating a great anniversary: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been de jure and de facto has been operating consistently for no more than a century. The main tasks facing the External Service have always been to ensure the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Estonian state. Like 100 years ago, Estonian diplomats are still working on the front line to ensure our independence. They are working to ensure that we are never alone again and that we are taken as a country and society throughout the free world, for whom and for whose protection it is worth offering the ultimate sacrifice if necessary. If one end of our measure of success extends to the outside world, the other end is firmly anchored in the soil of our homeland. Foreign policy does not work for itself, but for us, the people of Estonia. This has given us success in the decisive moments of history and is the only way forward. Like national defence, more needs to be invested in the External Action Service in difficult times. Finally, diplomacy is the most effective and, in fact, the most cost-effective means of ensuring our security. The security, economic well-being and security of the Estonian people will continue to be the main task and inspiration of our foreign policy activities. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U25	Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, members of the Riigikogu have many questions for you. Begin this round of questions by Peter Ernits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U26	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We are talking about the European Union, but at the same time, behind the Narva River, the expected or already created Eurasian Union begins. The central moments of the Eurasian Union are confronting liberal democracy, until the classical family model is called into question. Has the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs analysed the approach of the Eurasian Union? If so, how should Estonia view these issues? Do you automatically consider it to be in the interests of Russia or of the Eurasian Union to question liberal democracy and to emphasise the sovereignty of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U27	Thank you. Estonia is, of course, a member of the European Union and is very active in the development and implementation of the European common foreign and security policy. As a member of the European Union, we are also part of the common European market and the customs union. The Eurasian Union is indeed an economic union on the one hand, but on the other it is in the service of the foreign policy interests of its leading country, Russia. As far as value systems are concerned, undoubtedly the value axis on which our eastern neighbour Russia is based when shaping its foreign policy is significantly different from what Estonia has traditionally based its foreign policy, as well as its internal policy. We are more broadly guided by the 'European fundamental values'. This is certainly confirmed by a number of our national policies, such as our attitude towards freedom of expression, human rights, minority rights, but also, of course, our foreign policy activities. For example, according to European values and perceptions, violations of international law such as attempts to change borders by armed forces are totally unacceptable when a rule-based world order is in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U28	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U29	Thank you. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! First of all, I would like to thank you for this very meaningful review. But my question concerns foreign trade. Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, made a statement about a month ago in which he said that foreign policy has been fragmented for a long time and that it is time to do something about it. He suggested that we create a Foreign Trade Minister position that should be in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Currently, this portfolio is known to be under the administration of the Minister of Business at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. What is the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U30	Thank you. A few years ago, when Taavi Kõivas formed his first government, a major change was also made in the principles of government creation and in the law of the Government of the Republic. This made it possible to abandon the so-called smoothing and to give ministers responsibilities that were not very strictly framed in existing ministries buildings. Rather, it started to focus on certain thematic areas. It is clear that some areas are intrinsically inter-ministerial. Indeed, foreign economic policy in Estonia is in a sense divided between the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. For example, the focus is on bringing foreign investment into Estonia and also helping Estonian entrepreneurs in foreign markets and foreign markets. This, of course, is the case in the countries to which it has external representatives. It is clear that foreign trade is a very important part of foreign policy. All Estonian foreign services, foreign representations, as many as they are, are required to represent our foreign trade interests and foreign economic interests at all, among other tasks. As this capacity is limited, since our embassies are not, as a rule, manned by many, so-called non-priority countries include foreign economic issues as well as consular issues or other areas among the duties of one diplomat. In fact, it is a great deal about the resource. The budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs without investments and without our membership fees in international organisations will be around EUR 45 million. If we add investments and membership fees here, it will be about EUR 76 million. The total budget of EAS is over EUR 200 million. It is true that most of this is, of course, meant for domestic activities. But the part concerning foreign economic activity is comparable in volume to that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is clear that not all activities relevant to the external economy can be turned away from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For example, I can mention a number of functions that can only be performed by communicating with the state or with the state company. For example, a recent case where Estonia was mistakenly included in the list of tax havens in Ukraine. It is clear that such a case must be resolved by the State through its diplomatic mission, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. An organisation like EAS cannot do this in nature. If you want to establish a foreign trade minister's seat in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on a proposal from the Prime Minister and written in the coalition agreement in the next government, then it will undoubtedly only be reasonable and meaningful if this resource, which is currently administered by EAS in the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, comes with that minister. Otherwise, it is a relatively vacant position. At the same time, I admit that there are quite compelling reasons why these resources allocated to the external economy, including investment and helping the markets of companies, are together in this wallet, where there is also the money that the EAS has for domestic activities. Very many of our companies operate not only on the Estonian or foreign markets, but also on the Estonian market as well as export. This is undoubtedly an important point of attention and I am very prepared to think constructively about it, including that development cooperation instruments could be administered and directed by the Minister for Foreign Trade. But if we look at Estonia's development cooperation, for example, we will focus not on the poorest countries in the world but on the average developed countries along with several priority countries. It is also an important instrument of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U31	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U32	Thank you. Good Minister, thank you very much for this review. A very safe speech in itself, maybe a little even numb for my taste. But I'm asking about values. You spoke very nicely about the protection of liberal democratic values, and here our thoughts certainly overlap, but I am not sure whether this will always be reflected in the actions of you and the government. I am thinking, in particular, of the sanctions imposed against Russia on the basis of the way the Russian Government behaves: violates international law, annexes the areas of neighbouring countries, etc. There have been joint sanctions against this, but yet our government, under the leadership of the Minister for Economic Affairs, went to break these sanctions. I mean, of course, the risky car business in Russia. Why are you letting this happen in the government? Why have you not taken the very expressive view that the Estonian state should not, through its state company, run a wagon business in Russia, basically by breaking sanctions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U33	Thank you. Estonia is fully committed to the European Union's common policy on sanctions against Russia. This concerns all restrictive measures. It is also known that, in connection with the annexation of Crimea and what is happening in Eastern Ukraine, there are quite a number of sanctions packages, whether anti-person or sectoral. This list has been reviewed and updated periodically as necessary, so that it is a living document. Estonia is firmly and unequivocally in the position that these restrictive measures and sanctions must continue as long as Russia continues to violate international law until it fulfils its commitments. In the case of sanctions imposed on account of the events in Ukraine, these obligations are full compliance with the Minsk Agreements and, of course, the termination of the illegal annexation of Crimea. Estonia has been and will continue to be very initiativeful to give real substance to the non-recognition of the legitimate annexation of Crimea. We know that the policy of non-recognition must be more complex and go far beyond simply stressing the condemnation of the annexation. So no action that goes against sanctions, Estonia does not support. And, of course, companies and individuals operating in Estonia must not break these rules either. That is a very clear principle. As for some of the numbness of the report, maybe the virus that has hit me and torn me down for the last few days and weeks is responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U34	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You stressed the importance of development cooperation in your presentation. Obviously, this is very important, but if we look at the budget for this year's government, which is a full budget for this government, I do not see any progress being made here. Development and humanitarian aid still amounts to EUR 12 million, as it was during the previous government, nor has there been an increase in operating support for development cooperation organisations. Revert if these figures are not correct! But I ask you that in two weeks' time, by 1 March, you will submit to the Ministry of Finance a request for the budget for the following year regarding the preparation of the country's budget strategy. Does the next country's budget strategy and budget for next year have development cooperation priorities and how much more money do you want? Are we approaching this 0.33% of GDP, or are we moving away?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U36	Thank you. My goal is certainly to approach this figure. I wouldn't want to open too many cards until I go to very difficult budget negotiations with the Ministry of Finance, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the right number of important priorities. The share of development cooperation and humanitarian aid in our budget was record in 2016: we allocated a total of 40.3 million, which was 0.19% of our GNP. Bilateral cooperation was carried out for 18,3 million euros and multilateral cooperation for 22 million euros. The data for 2017 are not yet fully complete. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' development cooperation and humanitarian aid budget for 2017 was close to EUR 12 million, of which 3.4 million was earmarked for humanitarian aid. Indeed, the budget for development cooperation and humanitarian aid in 2018 is of the same size. Now, it is worth noting that at the height of the migration crisis, when refugees also arrived in Estonia, certain costs related to the fulfilment of our obligations during the migration crisis were reflected in statistics as development cooperation costs. I'm not saying it distorted the statistics, but it actually gave a certain higher figure. These figures are certainly extremely ambitious not only for Estonia but also for other countries of the European Union. There are only a few European Union countries, including the so-called old European countries, which reach the lats proposed to them, or 0.7%. Among the Member States that joined in 2004, we are quite close to the top. So we should not be ashamed in comparison with our fellow pioneers, but in the long view, that is certainly no excuse if we fail to fulfil our own commitments. My goal, both in this year's budget negotiations and in the long term, is that in the country's budgetary strategy, we do not go beyond our goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U37	Next thing you know, Andres Herkel's gonna ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! One of the topics that we have been rounding for years, from time to time, is that of Nord Stream 2 and related energy security and disputes at European level. The yearbook of the Foreign Intelligence Board has also appeared in sync with today's foreign policy debate and we found an interesting sentence: 'Although Estonia's opposition to NS2 has taken Gazprom into account, it is hoped that this will not appear as joint statements or other public statements. ' Mr Minister, I offer you a public position on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U39	Thank you. Estonia has been and continues to be critical of Nord Stream 2. For the first reason that, if a common European energy policy as one of its objectives is to reduce dependence on individual suppliers and to diversify energy suppliers as well as supply channels, our understanding is that Nord Stream 2 may not be fully in line with these principles. The second question that has been debated at European level is whether Nord Stream 2 is a purely economic project. We will certainly see the political threads and the political background of this project as well. It is very difficult to consider this project merely as a plan for economic viability and economic benefits. It certainly also has a geopolitical dimension that needs to be taken into account. And here I am thinking not only of the energy security aspect of the Member States of the European Union, but also of the energy and economic security aspects of the European Union's partners, including our important Eastern partners. And, of course, there are also a number of legal problems that have been debated at European level and are likely to have to continue to be debated. For example, whether and if so, the legal regulations of the European Union also apply to the subsea part of the route. This legal analysis is certainly extremely necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U40	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U41	Good President! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! In its recent review, the OECD noted that Estonian companies are not very successful in bringing innovative products to the market. In addition to the necessary infrastructure and financing instruments, international communication and cooperation will play an important role in promoting innovation. In your opinion, could the Estonian External Action Service establish a position of person responsible for promoting international communication in the field of innovation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U42	I don't think one position is a magic wand. But the subject you are drawing attention to is certainly important. Our export capacity is very strong in terms of the innovative nature of the product or service we want to export. In this sense, the focus on this topic is extremely important. I said in one of my responses what the volume of resources available to help our companies in foreign markets is in the EAS. The volume of this resource is comparable to the total budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We also need to consider carefully how best to coordinate and focus this resource, which has been shared between the two ministries' administrations, on the so-called priority foreign markets. We have taken steps in this direction in this government as well. The Government's Committee on Economic Development is also working on these issues. Undoubtedly, support for innovation is also very much a domestic activity, but of course it is also our chance to succeed in foreign markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U43	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I, too, thank you for this review of foreign policy trends, which was a very good presentation. My question is that we also see a place in local governments in the foreign relations of the Republic of Estonia. Administrative-territorial reform has taken place across Estonia. It is claimed that local authorities are now more capable, many small municipalities are concentrated together, and also in the field of external communication. What role do you see for local communities and local authorities in external communication?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U45	Thank you. Cross-border cooperation and other partnerships with local authorities in our partner countries are certainly to be welcomed. There are many aspects to such cooperation. Some of them also support the policies and instruments of the European Union. The external communication of the state as a whole is, of course, a function of the central government of the state, but of course, our foreign representations are also ready to provide support and help to local governments in maintaining, promoting and finding communication opportunities to support local life and help communities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U46	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! It has always been important for Estonia, for decades, to preserve the identity of the Finno-Ugric peoples living in Russia, to develop their culture and all that could help these peoples. Last year, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, what were the major achievements in this area in Estonia? What did Estonia do for the Finno-Ugric peoples living in Russia, and how do you think this could continue in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U48	Thank you. Of course, it is extremely important for Estonia to support our tribal peoples. It is known that many of our tribal peoples are declining nations and that the number of speakers in these languages is rapidly decreasing. Estonia is as active in this area as it is possible. However, this depends partly on the extent to which this activity is accepted by the Russian, Russian Government. Many national and non-profit organisations wishing to cooperate on the territory of Russia in the field of cultural cooperation or other such cooperation as we do in support of tribal peoples are considered to be 'foreign agents' whose interests do not coincide with the political interests of the country of residence. It's causing some problems. But Estonia has supported and will continue to support its tribal peoples as far as we can. Of course, Estonia is active both in UN organisations and in other international organisations, acting more broadly as a promoter of the agenda of indigenous peoples. I was also pleased to participate in a high-level debate in New York within the framework of the UN General Assembly opening week. Estonia will actively support such forums and carry them when possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U49	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U50	Thank you. Good Sven! Having worked with both the Foreign Office officials and personally with you, I'm sure you're doing your job well. I hope that the extra money promised by Ratas when he takes office will actually arrive and allow you to do your job even better. My question, however, is motivated by the statements made by prominent figures from the leading government party. In the last 48 hours alone, we have had to hear again the statement by the European Chief Political Officer of the Centre Party, Yana Toom, that our Russian policy should change in a diametrical way, or we should be much more humble and flagrant. Now Jüri Ratas' advisor, Mrs Kulbok-Lattik, has said that the invisible hand pressure of the neoliberal market economy has not been less total than any ideological control. How do you think it's become the official line of the Central Party or just the Prime Minister doesn't control what his closest fellow fighters say?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U51	Thank you. What is the prime minister's control over the statements made by members of his party or those who advise him, you must certainly ask the Prime Minister. I have never seen Yana Toomi, a member of the European Parliament and of the Centre Party as a member of this government coalition. Certainly a large part of what he has said in his public appearances on foreign policy issues or has done does not coincide in the slightest with the foreign policy of this government. What has been said and done by Prime Minister Ratas in representing Estonia has been very well connected to everything you did and said as Prime Minister in your time. Prime Minister Ratas has stood very strongly for Estonia's interests in all important areas, from security to economics. It is very difficult for me to predict whether the fact that he has delayed or channeled the resolution of certain internal problems in his party outside Estonian politics could have any influence on politics in the future. If it happens like this, of course, it's a serious problem, but today I don't see any sign of it. And my cooperation with the Prime Minister has been very good in pursuing Estonia's foreign policy objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U52	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U53	Thank you. The United States recently decided to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel before the people on the scene had reached a mutually satisfactory agreement. And, of course, Estonia deplored the UN's decision, which is completely against international law. This was also condemned by many of our NATO allies: Germany, France, the United Kingdom. Nevertheless, this choice by the US has given the peace process a strong blow and has also exacerbated its own ability to recommend a solution that suits both sides. Mr Minister, in your opinion, what further steps should Estonia and the European Union take to achieve peaceful coexistence between Israel and Palestine? And how can we, as the European Union, play a more important role in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U54	Thank you. Estonia's position, as well as the prevailing position of the European Union, has been consistent and clear. It is a position that the only sustainable solution to the Middle East conflict, i.e. the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, is a two-state solution. However, the two countries' solution can only be achieved in a sustainable way in bilateral direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. During these bilateral negotiations, all issues of 'final status', including the status of Jerusalem, must also be resolved. The city of Jerusalem is known to be part of international law, as is the occupied territory of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. However, it is clear that such negotiations, although they must take place directly between Israel and the Palestinians, must be supported by the international community. The European Union has not reached out and, in my understanding, it does not intend to pursue a leading role in this mediation or leadership of the international community. There is a broad consensus that this leading role can be played primarily by the US. This, of course, requires the United States Government to present a comprehensive peace plan. There must be a peace plan that finds the acceptance of the parties at least as a launch platform, and it must also find support as a region from Arab neighbours. Indeed, any unilateral steps which are not part of such a comprehensive peace initiative cannot move the peace process forward. It has been quite interesting to observe the statements made by the President of the United States in recent days. He has actually expressed himself considerably, if not significantly, considerably more restrainedly, and perhaps even in a sense, approaching the position of the European Union. At the same time, he expressed his concern in an interview that he felt that neither the Palestinians nor Israel might at all be committed to peace. And he also said in the same interview that the exact borders of Jerusalem, as the capital of Israel, must still be revealed in these negotiations between the two sides, which is not too far away. To think a little further about this principle, in the case of a two-state solution, which does not seem immanent today and will not seem realistic in the near future, Jerusalem could be the capital of both countries. Of course, there are other issues of final status that need to be resolved. Among other things, the peace process is a major brake on continued settlement activities in the Palestinian territories. Of course, this is also the case with rocket attacks and terrorist acts by Palestinian groups. It is clear that Israel's right to defend itself and its citizens is entirely legitimate, and this is supported by the democratic international community of Estonia and the rest of the world. So, in order for these bilateral negotiations to be successful, it must certainly be the willingness of both sides, first, to negotiate these matters among themselves. Secondly, it requires active mediation by the international community on the basis of a comprehensive peace plan. And, of course, reaching solutions also requires a willingness to compromise on important issues. There have been quite a number of false dawns and hopeful moments of international security in this long-standing conflict, which not only affects this region but also directly affects global security, but unfortunately, today it seems that the peace process has run into quite a bit of a deadlock.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U55	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U56	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister, thank you, too, for this thorough analysis and summary of foreign policy. But my question comes to you as one of the main foreign policy directors of the European Union and NATO Member States. The question is directed south and east. You spoke differently from the two neighbours of the European Union in your presentation: there was a lot of talk about Russia, but there was not a word about the neighbour of the south, the great Turkish country. Turkey, on the other hand, is the second country in NATO in terms of military power and population. Currently, these two large countries are working together, including in the field of arms. My question is, how do you feel about it? Shouldn't this cooperation concern us? And secondly, what values do we have in the two countries where the development of democracy has been very similar, so differently? Does this come first of all from pragmatic considerations?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U57	Thank you. First of all, these big countries, from a distance, might seem more similar than they really are. Turkey is indeed a very important NATO ally for us, and it is now a candidate country for the European Union. However, we know that the last year has not been the best time for relations between the European Union and Turkey. The negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union have basically stopped. However, Turkey has the status of candidate country. The European Union is also bound by an exceptionally important migration agreement with Turkey, with which the European Union supports all that Turkey is doing in order to host millions of people fleeing the crisis on its territory. An important event for the enlargement policy of the European Union will take place in the coming spring: the European Commission will publish another report on the candidate countries. The European Union currently has five candidate countries, four of them in the Western Balkans. Two of them are also being negotiated, two are still waiting for talks to start, and the fifth is Turkey. This report is expected to assess Turkey's compliance with, inter alia, the Copenhagen criteria. If the assessment is to be negative, the Member States of the European Union will have a difficult question about how to look at the negotiation process in Turkey in this situation. I would not like to speculate proactively about this right now. The beginning of the year has shown some positive signs. As far as security is concerned, the acquisition of arms from Russia by a NATO Member State is certainly a matter on which we must at least be careful and attentive. On the other hand, when we look at Turkey's security policy activities and priorities, Turkey has just launched a new military operation in Syria. In fact, we see this kind of political tension between the two largest and most important NATO members, the United States and Turkey. Their priorities, their allies, their supporters and their opponents in the conflict in Syria do not coincide at all. I wish the best for relations between the European Union and Turkey, among other things in the light of the future of the migration agreement, but I do not dare to be overly optimistic that the approach of the European Union and Turkey could in the near future get in some completely new move.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U58	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U59	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! One way to influence countries that do not recognise liberal democracy is to make it known through economic sanctions that their values are not correct. At the same time, a number of international organisations, including parliamentary assemblies, have produced reports and adopted resolutions on Russia, Belarus and others. However, there is a small degree of suspension, because these reports and resolutions are of little use; nothing is going to be done. Have you encountered similar discussions in the near future? I experienced this in the collection of cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries, where the Baltic States are very clearly of the opinion that resolutions should be implemented, but others have a slightly hesitant view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U60	Undoubtedly, all the decisions that have been taken on restrictive measures, or sanctions, must also be firmly enforced. That is the point of any sanctions policy. The European Union has imposed various sanctions against dozens of countries. There are hundreds of these decisions and their changes. Sanctions are to be applied practically every month, reviewed and amended. We have certainly also seen attempts to circumvent or ignore sanctions. It has also been said that individuals, companies or organisations do not comply with sanctions, because they simply do not know exactly what their content is and run counter to the idea of sanctions in terms of pure ignorance. However, in a strange way, we have also seen the opposite trend: there is too much caution with a country that is subject to restrictive measures. Businesses, for example, also avoid activities that are entirely legal. In English, they say "overcomplicance." Estonia did this by recognising the problem during our Presidency as a suitable innovative solution for an e-state, which we have now handed over to the European Commission. It is a'sanction card', which in real time reflects all the restrictive measures imposed by the European Union in various areas against different countries. In this way, it is possible to obtain very precise time and relevant information from both ministries and other public authorities as well as private operators. So the enforcement of sanctions is undoubtedly extremely necessary. How are other resolutions of organisations, such as Parliamentary Assemblys, implemented? The monitoring of these matters should be in the hands of these organisations themselves, but there are also necessary mechanisms to respond to their disregard or violation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U61	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U62	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State! We have not had any major disagreements about foreign policy positions, but I have always longed for our foreign policy to be more visible and audible. I was surprised by your uncompromising statement of support to the Prime Minister after we have expressed regret here among ourselves about what happened at the meeting of the Baltic Prime Ministers in which the Government changed the text of the resolution in your absence. I'm asking if the Foreign Minister's voice has been heard. For example, the wagon business in Russia is helping to circumvent financial sanctions and our strategic communication plans are not credible, while the Prime Minister's party feeds the Russian propaganda channel. Has the Minister of Foreign Affairs been able to talk about this in the government or with members of our government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U63	Thank you. Absolutely! The Minister of Foreign Affairs will speak to the Prime Minister directly and among himself on all matters, if necessary, both at the government meeting and, of course, with the Prime Minister. You referred to the collective drafting of the joint statement by the Baltic Prime Ministers at the study session. None of this has happened. If you want to criticise the government, you have to go back to the end of last year and refer to this case. But this certainly shows that we are able to learn and develop in every way, and we will also draw conclusions from finger errors, even those that are not big and tragic, and we will avoid them in the future. Estonia's foreign policy and security policy, including Russian policy, are remarkably consistent. The attempts to imagine any radical upheaval or change in this regard in connection with the change of government have been founded on a reality that does not correspond to reality, does not correspond to facts. Such claims will certainly serve more certain domestic policy objectives than express genuine concern about Estonian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U64	Thank you, good vice chairman. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! The countries' own political orientations, internal decisions, are no longer separable from foreign policy, from the country's foreign policy image. In recent years, we have seen the right number of times how, precisely, internal developments and decisions affect the country's image far beyond its borders. We were both in Poland last week, whose domestic decisions have led to a very sharp and, in my personal opinion, not the best-weighted response from the European Commission, which has threatened Poland with withdrawing voting rights in the European Union. I know that Estonia's final position on this issue has not yet been shaped, but I would ask you, however, to open up Estonia's position a little bit on the issue of the debate surrounding the withdrawal of voting rights from Poland.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U65	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U66	Thank you. This debate is currently at this stage that the European Commission has issued a reasoned opinion on certain reforms and laws on judicial reform that have been adopted in Poland and, as concluded, raises the question of whether Poland is fulfilling its responsibilities towards Europe in the area of the rule of law. This opinion of the European Commission has been presented to the Member States, which should first form their position on it in the General Affairs Council format. Of course, it is important to obtain comments and objections from Poland, at all, before drawing up this position. Indeed, I went to Poland at the end of last week, met with my new Polish colleague, Jacek Czaputowicz, and talked to him not only bilaterally but also, of course, on the rule of law and Article 7, for quite a long time, both at delegation level and in private. Poland is currently preparing, in addition to its replies, a White Paper comparing the judicial system, the procedures for the appointment of judges following the entry into force of the new Polish laws and ensuring the independence of the judiciary with the relevant regulations in other Member States of the European Union. It is expected that the Polish system will not differ significantly from the arrangements in force in another European Union country. Estonia certainly attaches importance, as I said yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to the unwavering observance of the principles of the rule of law in all the Member States of the European Union. This is one of the foundations of the functioning of the European Union. At the same time, there is certainly a need for this tension to be resolved in a dialogue between the European Commission and Poland and, on the other hand, between the rest of the Member States and Poland. We certainly do not want to see the European Union become an organisation whose form of action is to sanction or punish its own members. This would quite a blow to the future of the European Union. These future discussions are currently underway. If we could get the European Union to sanction one of its Member States by a certain majority, or even by consensus, then of course this would not be a positive solution. On the other hand, we do not want a vote in the General Affairs Council that will again divide Europe into old and new Member States, creating some kind of dividing line between Central and Eastern Europe and Western and Southern Europe. In drawing such lines, even if this resulted in a vote-off of the Commission's proposal, I believe that there would be very negative consequences, for example, for the European Union's budgetary disputes and also for the discussions on future enlargement. There is no point in denying that there is some disappointment in the capitals of the old Member States. This will certainly have an impact on the decisions taken in these capital cities, for example, on partnership policy and enlargement policy. So our wish is certainly.. and I think that this desire is shared by several capitals not only here in our immediate region, the Baltic States or elsewhere in Central and Eastern Europe, but also, in fact, in Western Europe, so that the Commission and Poland can negotiate and find a solution that will also help to depoliticise this issue somewhat. I am very pleased that the new Prime Minister of Poland, as well as the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been more prone to this dialogue with the Commission. It has certainly opened up certain new possibilities, so we do not have to reach the stage where we need to settle our differences by voting or even worse, by imposing some kind of sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U67	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation, you devoted a whole page to the topics of Estonia and the European Union, which are also understandable, and the future of the European Union is, to a lesser or greater extent, in the agenda of all politicians at all times. How do you assess the balance of power within the European Union between the major European institutions and the smaller partner countries of major countries such as France and Germany? In some ways, this question will continue with your previous answer, but I will ask you. If you want to be more specific now, please say what is Estonia's most important message to the whole Union in view of the future, just as this multi-speed European Union seems to be gaining momentum.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U69	Estonia is quite active in this start-up debate, where, among other things, the future of the institutions will be discussed. For example, this debate, which, among other reasons, is due to Brexit's vote and the British leaving, reaches details such as the distribution of the seats of the next European Parliament among the countries, possible top candidates for the pan-European electoral list, including candidates from whom the President of the European Commission should be elected, etc. We certainly want this debate to end with a result that does not deepen a certain number of citizens of the European Union, and there is not enough of them to say that the European Union is a distant community from people and that all decisions are taken without people having the opportunity to have a direct say in them. For a Member State the size of Estonia, the format for intergovernmental cooperation is certainly the one to which our people are.. I say this with full respect for the European Parliament. We have to consider that among the more than 700 members of the European Parliament, the Estonian delegates are presently six, perhaps seven in the next composition. In intergovernmental cooperation at Council and Council level, we will be at the table as one of the 27 future members, perhaps a little more. This is the format in which we can best represent and protect our specific interests. We certainly do not want the formats according to which decisions will be taken at the fingertips of future top executives of the European Union, such as the President of the Commission, the Permanent President of the Council and other top officials in Estonia. These are the principles that we are largely based on in this institutional debate today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U70	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U71	Thank you very much. 13 years ago, Estonia asked to be a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2020 and 2021. What's your attitude, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser, about this? To what extent is this objective feasible, and what should be done in addition to the activities of the UN Security Council campaign team set up by the President in order to obtain at least two thirds of the votes of the UN, or 129 votes? What would you suggest?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U72	Estonia is a full member of the international community. The Security Council shall have five permanent veto members and ten non-permanent members elected for a two-year period. Very many countries of the world have, over time since the UN was established, been included in the Security Council as non-permanent members, elected, some on quite a number of occasions. So it is undoubtedly achievable. If we did not believe that this was achievable and realistic, we would certainly not have been dealing with it since 2005. We are actively doing this campaign, and it is certainly going at an accelerated pace until the election that will take place next summer. This is a campaign we are campaigning in the capitals, in New York, at UN headquarters, and in other UN organizations. We will certainly also do this through regional organisations. At the end of January, I visited Addis Ababa for a second time to meet my African colleagues who held a meeting of foreign ministers there, which preceded the African Union summit. I know that several members of the Riigikogu have also actively visited us in recent months, not only the closest and traditionally not the most important economic and tourism destinations, but also the countries with similar views or similar priorities, such as climate policy, ocean defence policy or, for example, the reform of the UN itself, where Estonia has been one of the spokespersons and has achieved quite significant success without even being a non-permanent member of the Security Council, for example by making the process of selecting the Secretary-General with several other countries more open and transparent. Thanks again, everybody! I know that both you and Mart Nutt, Marko Mihkelson and several other members of the Riigikogu have done this work quite actively in recent months. Of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also does so through all its representations. In fact, there are quite a number of institutions involved in this work and it is certainly important, symbolic and also increasing our visibility that the President of the Republic is the patron of this undertaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U73	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, What role do you think the Estonian-Russian border treaty plays in the development of external relations, or rather the lack of it is a major obstacle? I am thinking of the fact that the Estonian-Russian border is part of the eastern border of the European Union, as well as the comment given by the President of the Republic of Estonia to the Estonian Päevaleht last October, where he mentioned that he would go to Russia if the border treaty were ratified. Can the absence of the Estonian-Russian border treaty be an obstacle if we also want to apply for the European Union's funding for the construction of the Estonian-Russian border? After all, the European Union is currently negotiating support for the construction of the European Union's external borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U75	Thank you. The existence of a border agreement between two neighbouring countries is certainly a normal state of affairs. Estonia has been very constructive and interested in reaching a border agreement. We know that we have twice signed the border agreement with Russia, once ratified by Parliament. In this second attempt, both the previous and the current parliamentary formations have done the first reading of the draft ratification of the border agreement. Unfortunately, we have not seen parallel movements on the Russian side. At the same time, it can be said that the absence of a ratified border agreement does not really prevent us from actually pursuing our bilateral and multilateral policies, either towards Russia or with our European Union partners. And actually, there's no double-thinking either. I mean, the line or the line is known on both sides. Nor, in my understanding, does it interfere in any way or in any way with the creation of the border as we want it to be seen as the external border of a modern European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U76	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U77	Thank you. I am pleased to note that we agree on security and NATO issues in this Chamber. But I am interested in what Estonia has done specifically in the European Union and in the Commission on the issue of Nord Stream. It is clear that this is to a large extent a political project in which, unfortunately, the individual benefitting districts from Germany are also involved. Russia is using it to divide European unity and to create opportunities for manipulation. I also ask whether Estonia has protested against Russia's actions. After all, their research ship is doing research on the seabed in our territorial waters in the Gulf of Narva, in connection with this pipeline.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U78	Thank you. First of all, any border violation in Estonia always reacts, be it land, sea or air borders. Your formulation of 'essentially in the territorial waters of Estonia' is very difficult to find out whether this ship is factually in the territorial waters of Estonia. But if the territory of our country is illegally entered, then of course Estonia will always react to it. In Europe, we have, bilaterally, together with our partners, other Member States, raised and expressed all our concerns about the Nord Stream project from its non-consistency with the wider energy objectives of the European Union to the political impact of the facility. We are also, of course, interested in a legal assessment of the application of European Union law to this part of the pipeline, precisely under the Baltic Sea. There are undoubtedly other countries on the shores of the Baltic Sea that are of the same kind as us, which understand this problem in the same way. At the same time, there are countries in Europe that believe that this is primarily an economic project, whether for themselves or for Europe as a whole. There is, of course, a certain limit that we can go to. From a certain point of view, such projects are beyond our control, even if our opposition is logical and justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U79	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! A few questions ago, we stopped at campaigns to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. Suppose these campaigns bear good fruit and we are a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for a while. What will change for Estonia, and what does Estonia want to change in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U81	Thank you. Well, it is very difficult to predict precisely those issues that will be on the agenda of the Security Council in those years when Estonia hopefully is a non-permanent member. However, looking back at the presence of our close friend and neighbour, Lithuania, as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, precisely at the height of the crisis in Ukraine, we see how important it is that a country with a similar security picture and perception is in the Security Council to be able to stand up for such crises, conflicts being on the agenda, not to lose the focus of the 'global community'. Certainly one of Estonia's goals is that, in addition to keeping the topics in the spotlight that we traditionally stand for, from the digital field to human rights and equality, there will be discussions at the table on the readiness to respond to possible crises that have erupted. After all, the Security Council is the first to react when, for example, escalating tensions on the Korean peninsula or some other event that is very seriously shaking international security or escalating. It is certainly important that our region, our security concerns and our expectations are represented at the table there. In addition, of course, it expands our horizons and allows Estonia to reach countries that would otherwise find it more difficult to explain their interests and priorities. The membership of the Security Council will also make us more visible to the geographically remote and because of our small size to countries that do not always notice us. In some ways, it is certainly not one-to-one with the additional opportunities provided by the Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U82	Thank you. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Untying Yana Toom from the Coalition is a very sympathetic idea in itself. If it were up to you or me, it would have been done by now. But the fact is, it's not up to you or me because he's undoubtedly one of the most popular, if not the most popular, Central Party politician. A large part of the current Central Party Group also sits in this Chamber precisely because of the votes that were collected personally by Yana Toom. There were over 11000 more votes than any coalition politicians in both the Riigikogu and the government. Secondly, Mrs Kulbok-Lattik is a person who works at the Stenbock House and represents the positions of the Government of the Republic there, advising the Prime Minister of the Republic. Don't you think that the statements of these very prominent individuals are damaging the narrative you and the entire Ministry of Foreign Affairs have built step by step?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U83	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U84	Are these statements damaging this narrative? Yeah, I guess. Now, coalition decoupling. First of all, when he received 11000 votes, on the right hand hand hand, a little more than two middle party members are in this Chamber because of these votes. This is not an overwhelming part of the membership of this group. [[Exhibition and comments in the hall.]] But looking at this hall right now, it really feels like there are more of them in this group. What I do not see today, however, is that the Prime Minister or the Group of the Centre Party in this Chamber or the other ministers of the Centre Party in the government are somehow influenced by the rhetoric of Yana Toom in their politics or in their decisions and in their actions. Undoubtedly, it is in a sense a convenient form of coexistence when one person, a party member is on the loose and can express thoughts that do not in any way coincide with those expressed by the head of his party or with those carried out by his party in the government. This person returns home, brings back the voices, and goes back to where he serves his daily bread. Is this model sustainable? I have certain reservations about this. But today, as I have already said, I do not see that the actual policy of the Centre Party in the area of security and foreign policy in the government is somehow affected by this rhetoric.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U85	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U86	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive last response. I will continue on the same subject. Israel's Prime Minister, Benyamin Netanyahu, has consistently confirmed that there will be no return to the 'non-protective' borders of 1967 and that Palestinians should accept the reality of the landscape, hence the additional settlements since 1967. Unfortunately, the United States seems to be supporting this vision in recent times. If we look at this situation now, it seems that the two-state solution will, at best, mean creating some kind of Bantustan for the Palestinians. They lose water sources, the best parcels and even international borders, thus basically living on the reservation. Would it not be wise to consider changing the position of the European Union now and to support a solution that is two nations and one secular federal state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U87	Thank you. The solution of the two countries, which I believe the majority of the countries of the European Union are in favour of, is, in my deepest conviction, the only solution that, in a fair way, takes into account the legitimate expectations and concerns of both peoples. On the other hand, this seems to me to be the only realistic solution. I have not heard or seen any realistic solution in today's world, and I have spoken quite a lot about it and read about it, which would not be a two-state solution in the Israeli and Palestinian territories as a whole. One of the issues of final status is certainly the issue of settlements. The expansion of settlements, the continuation of settlements, is certainly an important obstacle to the holding of peace negotiations or their resumption. Whether this final status means any exchange of territories is definitely a matter of bilateral negotiations. My opinion certainly cannot have a significant impact on this. One thing now is the division of the territory after 1967, actually 1948, 78% and 22% of Palestine under mandate. The second question is which territories are actually concerned. We know that this is a relatively narrow strip of land, and a significant part of the territory of the State of Israel is the Negev Desert. But there are still quite a lot of people living in this territory compared to Estonia. So it will certainly not be easy to negotiate parameters and final status. As far as the policies of the United States and Israel are concerned and whether or not the Americans support it, the news stream is dynamic. But the latest news that I have read says that when Israeli leaders reported to the press that Israel and the United States were negotiating the integration of certain settlements, i.e. that they would come under Israeli military administration as occupied territories under Israeli law, the fact that such talks took place has overturned the White House. However, the position of Estonia and of the European Union is certainly not altered by these individual news buttons, whether true or somewhat speculative.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U88	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U89	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State! I do not know if there is anything here with sound equipment, but I praised the similarity of our foreign policy positions and worried a little about the visibility and audibility of Estonian foreign policy. For some reason, you began to disprove any claims about a change in the foreign policy course. I don't know whose statements these are, but now I'm going to say my questions again with a louder voice. Tell me if you have been heard when the Minister of Economic Affairs approves of the wagon business of the state company in the government, which means bypassing financial sanctions and taking business risk by the Estonian state, and if one party feeds the Russian propaganda channel and, at the same time, tells how it develops strategic communication. Have you ever been heard of such circumstances in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U90	Thank you. I have certainly always said my point of view when it seems to me that one or the other decision or planned action by the Minister of Industry goes against the foreign policy interests of Estonia. I always draw attention to this when, for example, our activities in the field of strategic communication are ambiguous or when certain activities in some municipalities are opposite to what the central government of the country is doing. Of course, it is not just me who draws attention to this. In general, I am convinced that my voice can be heard, even if I now have this voice a little hoarse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U91	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U92	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! In your speech, you also focused on the need to deepen cooperation with certain Member States of the European Union. In particular, in the light of our experience as President-in-Office, you have pointed out that we need to step up cooperation with the Nordic countries, Latvia, Lithuania, the Benelux countries, France, Germany and also with a number of other responsible Member States. What are the countries of the European Union that do not act responsibly? Can you name them, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U93	Thank you. Estonia, of course, cooperates with all the Member States of the European Union, but it is clear that these relations and the volume of cooperation vary widely in the sector. Our closest partners are, of course, the Baltic and Nordic countries, with whom we are linked not only by cooperation within the European Union but also by very close bilateral cooperation, but also by regional cooperation. Germany and France are the leading talent for Europe after Brexit, and this axis will certainly begin to shape the future of the European Union to a very large extent. I don't know exactly what your question was aiming at, but you might be reading things out of the text that aren't there. One earlier question focused on Estonia's approach to the Polish problem, this initiative initiated by the European Commission. I can say that, in addition to being an important security partner for us, Poland is also an important partner for us in the development of several infrastructure objects, such as Rail Baltic or the European synchronisation project. I have visited Warsaw three times in my slightly more than a year's time as Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I have also visited Sopot once. I have met several times with the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs, Witold Wasczykowski, and I have just met the new Minister, Jacek Czaputowicz. By the way, I was his first European Union colleague to visit him in Warsaw. Of course, we have expressed concerns about certain trends. Perhaps our views differ here, but my hope before the Brexit vote was that the British voters would make a different decision. However, this does not mean that we cannot work very closely with Britain in the area of security policy, or that we do not want or approach constructively finding the best solution on both sides in terms of respect for the decision of the British electorate, how this important, big and very many issues with us, not only on security issues, but also on other issues, would leave on a regular, organised and mutually agreed basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U94	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U95	Thank you! Minister for Foreign Affairs, thank you very much for a thorough review and very substantive answers to the questions. I would very much like to thank and congratulate the workers of the Estonian embassies, including the ambassadors, through you, for the way they represent our country and support both the parliamentary delegations and other citizens who sometimes need help as tourists or as people studying or working abroad. I would like to mention, for example, Carl Eric Laantee Reintam and his wife, who were of great help to the little girl and her family who went to Germany for surgery, who did not speak German. Throughout the family's stay in Germany, they were their interpreter. I certainly wish you every success in the budget negotiations. If the State Department had sufficient resources, in which country would you open another embassy?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U96	Thank you. That's always an unspoken fine question. Let us think of ourselves back a few years ago when these discussions in this Chamber focused on whether we need to close down three or five foreign representations and what they should be! The decision to close an embassy is always harder than the decision to open an embassy. Each such decision must be measured nine times and then cut. I can say that in making these decisions we have in mind three main parameters. Firstly, whether the candidate country is important to us as a partner in the field of security policy. Secondly, the size of our economic relations with this country. And thirdly, whether there are people living in this country or visiting this country, there are more people in Estonia who need services and consular assistance. On the basis of these parameters, we will make these decisions. In this so-called shortlist, which lists priority capitals where we currently have no representation, I have three capitals in my head, plus another possible foreign representation. But I don't think it's responsible to call them out right now. One of the debates that has already been launched in the public is Estonia's representation in the Gulf States. First of all, we are talking about the United Arab Emirates, where the World Exhibition Expo will take place soon. Abu Dhabi is certainly an important capital in this region. It is also a region with very important security policy issues, and the United Arab Emirates is an important country for tourists. The main emirate our citizens attend as tourists is Dubai. In summary, it is one of those capital cities, where in fact all three dimensions are, in a sense, fully represented. The second decision that lies ahead of us is how, in view of the European Union's enlargement policy and the importance of the Western Balkans, the best diplomatic way to cover the Balkan region's countries. In making this decision, however, we also have in our backs the knowledge that the Estonian state has diplomatic real estate in Budapest, Hungary, with whom we are also closely linked by tribal relations. In time, this embassy finished its work, but the real estate we acquired as embassy is waiting for us there. However, the opening of a diplomatic mission cannot be a real estate decision. It must, however, be based, as I said, on the three main criteria mentioned above. Like Abu Dhabi, these three criteria have been substantially met in Budapest.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U97	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U98	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Sven, first of all, thank you for your good presentation. Secondly, it would go on with the same subject that Helmen has already started. It is sympathetic that, at the end of your speech, you stressed the importance of seeking additional resources for our External Action Service, also taking into account all that you highlighted in your speech. Over the course of an hour and a half, we have referred to very important issues where our external activities or diplomatic activities must be active. Budget negotiations are about to begin. What are the most important priorities for you to implement in the current situation the strengthening of the External Action Service promised in the Coalition Agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U99	Thank you. Again, our priorities are based on the three considerations already mentioned today. It is clear that there are a number of important capital cities which are extremely important for us from a security perspective that will play a leading role in the debate on the future of Europe, but whose embassies are in fact minimally equipped with human resources in particular. The strengthening of these embassies, their representations, is certainly in one focus. Of course, it is also important to strengthen foreign economic policy. It is recalled that an agreement was concluded in 2009 according to which certain transport functions of foreign economic policy were transferred to EAS. This means that, for the time being, we have far fewer diplomats focused solely on foreign economic policy in foreign affairs than there are, for example, external representatives of EAS. That, too, is certainly a priority. Of course, what we have been doing for quite a few years is all that relates to our infrastructure outside the borders of the Estonian state. We have several embassies that are in quite a difficult or even critical state. We have made quite a lot of investments to improve the physical security of embassies as well as the security of information movements. If we are unable to move information safely, the question often arises as to whether the collection of information in the country of residence is justified at all or reasonable resource allocation. So these are also topics. And, of course, the questions raised by Helmen are highly relevant. It is clear that budget negotiations are difficult. As a rule, promises made to voters focus on areas where very large electoral groups are directly interested. The luck or accident of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, as we have said in the context of the state reform, that we have already moved a very large part of our employees and agencies out of Tallinn. But on the other hand, we are a ministry with a classical target group, just as in the case of the Ministry of Education and Research there are teachers or in the case of the Ministry of the Interior there are no police officers, either as a pressure group or as a large electoral group. I guess that always makes the political budget negotiations somewhat more difficult. But I am optimistic that in this area, we will be able to convince both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and his good subordinates, whose natural instinct in the budget negotiations is to overcome all requests with a red pencil.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U100	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U101	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I will conclude with a topic that is apparently relevant to the development that affects Estonia's foreign policy credibility, but which is very important in nature, is the development that we have here within Estonia. Namely, the current government has pursued several topics in a row, where the Estonian state has been placed in the essence of its own occupation or, if you wish, in the legal successor status of the Estonian SSR. When, for the first time, a title appeared months ago that the Estonian government is considering taking on the damage to occupation, I think that the reaction of many was that, uh, this is another mistake in the title. However, since the designation of your country as a compensation for occupational damage remained to be repeated in a rhetorical way, the situation is likely to be more serious. If we gradually move away from the current crystal-clear policy of maintaining the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia with such examples, we will become the confused successor of the former Soviet republic. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, have you explained to your colleagues in the government what such a disruption of legal continuity in the image of the country entails?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U102	The role of legal consistency in restoring our independence and maintaining our entire statehood 100 years ago is impossible to overestimate, and that is practically the basis of everything. Certainly, we must avoid any activity that might in any way call it into question or harm it. With regard to specific legal issues for certain churches or religious organizations, I do not know whether this was the core of the question of paying compensation, I hope that the interpretation that this somehow calls into question our legal continuity or puts the Estonian state's responsibility for the injustice that it has suffered in its own time will not find a wider scope. I certainly do not share such interpretations. The state of Estonia bears no moral or legal responsibility for the acts committed on our soil and against our people by the regimes that occupied us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U103	Thank you, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser! The answer time was two minutes and eleven seconds ago. I'm sorry, Marianne Mikko and Arno Bridge, but I can comfort you by asking questions to Marko Mihkelson. One moment, Marko Mihkelson, we have a procedural matter to resolve. Honourable Riigikogu, I have procedural proposals so that we can continue and put them to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Central Party Group to extend today's plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 41 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The time for the plenary session has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Our second waitress is Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U104	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! In recent days, we have often been in our minds in the period preceding the declaration of Estonia's independence. 1918 was a time of great upheaval in the history of many nations. The end of the World War changed Europe's political map in a way that allowed the idea of a united Europe to be realised decades later. February 24, 1918 and the weeks preceding it are an excellent example of how the fate of a small country can be decided at the same time by both foresighted leaders and by a window of historic opportunities that has now been broken. As early as late in the summer of 1917, the Rural Council decided here in the White Hall of our Parliament that 'as the issue of the future of the Baltic States becomes a matter of international division and agreement through the course of the World War, the people of Estonia must explain with absolute certainty how the fate of our country must develop in order to satisfy the people's vital interests. ' To this end, the Rural Council decided to establish an external delegation consisting of Jaan Tõnisson, Ants Piip, Ferdinand Kull, Mihkel Martna, Karl Menning, Karl Robert Pusta, and Eduard Virgo. They were the first diplomats in independent Estonia, whose activities contributed to the de facto recognition of our country as early as spring 1918. One of the members of the foreign delegation, later Minister of Foreign Affairs Ants Piip, wrote on 13 January 1918 in St Petersburg's Estonian newspaper. He started with lines that would fit perfectly into today's 100 years later. Pip wrote: "The course of history is fast and the event so intrusive that what yesterday's full utopia is today's real thing. You've got to keep yourself on your feet with everything you can, so you don't miss that big flow. " At a time when Germany was already occupying the West Estonian archipelago, Russia was considered the most natural ally of a new independent state, 'as long as it did not threaten our own existence'. Karl Einbund (Kaarel Eenpalu) was even more foresighted than the pipe, who already wrote prophetic words to Postimees on January 15, 1918: "Russia must suffer from the fever of revolution for decades, then recover for decades. We can't wait that long. We have to help ourselves. The first step is the implementation of Estonia's independence. ' Ladies and gentlemen, The 100-year history of independent Estonia has repeatedly confirmed the importance of the consistent action of diplomats and politicians in international situations in order to maintain our republic. In 2018, we will face far less difficult choices than the founders of independence 100 years ago. Estonia is a free and successful country with more friends and reputation in the world than ever before. At the same time, we might ask ourselves whether the current level of ambition of our foreign policy and the courage to make decisions are comparable to that of the creators of the Estonian state. I'll answer that in a minute. The Minister of Foreign Affairs gave a comprehensive overview of the international challenges facing Estonia, mainly in the security field. They are often far more important than the ability of a small country to influence such great trends. Particularly worrying is the fact that increasing restrictions on democratic values and political freedoms reduce the rule-based coherence of the world and create prerequisites for the outbreak of major conflicts. This forces particular attention primarily to small countries on the border of the free world, such as Estonia. The restoration of Estonia's independence fell at the time when the free world made the biggest expansion in history. While in 1987 the proportion of free and non-free countries was almost equal, ten years later, in 1997, the number of free countries was almost twice as high as that of non-free countries. The free world seemed to have reached a position beyond which countries restricting civil liberties lacked a development perspective. In 2007, everything seemed to be moving in the triumph of the free world. The Freedom House index indicated that 48% of all countries in the world were free and that the share of authoritarian and closed societies had fallen to one fifth. But then this curve snapped, and the value space of a free society has narrowed every year. As a result, free and fair elections, the protection of minority rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law are under attack worldwide. The most critical is the lack of a clear leader and spokesperson in the current free world. The United States, which has been in undisputed leadership for many years, took retreating steps even before President Trump's election victory. There are several reasons here, but the tiresome wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and the financial crisis that exploded in 2008 have certainly played a role. Unfortunately, the European Union has not been able to stand up for a democratic value zone enough. The High Representative for Foreign Policy, Federica Mogherini, has been very modest in this regard. At the same time, it is at European Union level that Member States in the world would be more effective in protecting their values. There should be more room in the debate on the future of the European Union for what actually unites the Member States that have joined the voluntary union and what is the idea that the peoples of Europe would be willing to be out for the Community. The less bureaucracy in the European Union's external relations, the more credible and powerful the Community's message is at international level. One of the paradoxes of a free society is its internal vulnerability. It is also being used by authoritarian systems in their own interests by interfering with elections or influencing political decisions by corrupting them. But another interesting nuance is the loss of fear of war. For new generations, wars in Europe, fascism or communism are, at best, only chapters in history books or films. This is, on the one hand, very positive, but it can be dangerous if lasting peace and prosperity are taken for granted. History has always been close enough to us in Estonia. We know what it means to lose freedom and how difficult it is for a small country like us to win it back again. But here too, it seems that our internal debate on the fundamental values of the free world has sometimes become careless. This should not be the case, because the guarantee of Estonia's international success is a system of international relations based on our own values. Ladies and gentlemen, What would Ants Piip and his peers dream of today? Where would they direct their energy now, and what foreign policy decisions would they take in 21st century Estonia? Obviously, the founders of our republic could suggest that open, ambitious and professional diplomacy to ideas is increasingly important right now in the preservation of Estonia and in ensuring the success of every person. The globalising world has given the false impression that the External Action Service of an independent state can be delivered with a smaller resource or a more virtual approach. This is not just Estonia's peculiarity. The role and meaning of the External Action Service has changed in proportion to the networking of the world: the more people can freely travel, learn, work and share information, the less the role of countries in organising or influencing this type of communication. However, the long-standing truth is that in international relations the sun never sets: the more the world is connected and the more information about what is happening, the more important will be the capacity of diplomats to represent and defend their country's interests. And not from a distance, but from the hubs of the world. Estonia is far from the only country where the External Action Service is rather underfunded. For example, the operational costs of the Estonian External Action Service are already more than ten times lower than the defence costs, amounting to only 0.5% of this year's state budget. At the beginning of the century, it was close to 1%. At the same time, it is the diplomats who do the main front line of work to protect Estonian citizens, economic interests and security in the world. If diplomacy were to fail, Estonia would face a disaster threatening its statehood. And more broadly, the fewer resources countries allocate to diplomacy, the more dangerous the world becomes. Therefore, it would be important, for example, for NATO Member States to break down the reduction in defence spending, in addition to the reduction in resources devoted to diplomacy. Why can't Estonia be one of the road signs here? The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs launched a report last month on strengthening the External Action Service. We think that it is important to take a look at the state of the Estonian External Action Service and analyse the level of ambition between the current Presidency of the European Union and the elections to the Riigikogu next year. We are asking what are the objectives of Estonian foreign policy in the near future, how we can get to them (including by amending the laws) and what additional resources the state should allocate for this purpose. The time for serious discussion is more than ripe, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is just beginning to prepare its first foreign policy development plan and the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee is ready to process possible amendments to the External Action Service Act. In addition, the Committee on Foreign Affairs also commissioned a study on the subject to help complete the report. The sense that Estonian diplomacy needs serious encouragement is increasingly shared opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is one of the most open economies in the world. We trade with more than 170 countries, we go visa-free in 165 countries, and our foreign trade turnover is more than 150% of GDP. At least 300000 jobs depend on the success of exports, which makes foreign trade an important influence on the welfare of Estonian people. This is a pretty good result for a small country, but it can do even better. This requires clearer political leadership and common objectives. The global economy as a whole has become increasingly competitive, especially since the crisis, and the success of innovation and new technologies is greatly changing the fundamentals of both work and production. This is why it is right now to ask what Estonia can change, especially at political level, so that we can be considerably more ambitious and successful in the sector that has such a major impact on the country's success. The business diplomacy strategy signed by Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology at the end of last December states that 'a major development option is greater coordination and central responsibility between authorities dealing with foreign markets'. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, which conducted hearings over the last year to clarify the bottlenecks in Estonia's external trade and international competitiveness, has also reached exactly the same position. In addition to the lack of political responsibility, the strategic vision has been blurred or volatile, the objectives of the entities involved in foreign trade differ, and the collection of information has not reached the political level of decision-making. What, then, would be the solution for a better external trade policy? Estonia should not invent a bicycle here, but follow the experiences of successful and similar countries in world trade. I would like to highlight, for example, the Netherlands, Belgium, Finland and Sweden. In each of these countries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the main responsibility, where, in addition to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister responsible for Foreign Trade is also in office. The same model would be suitable for Estonia. Today, Estonia is in a situation where export interests and attracting foreign investment are not the main work of anyone in the government, no one is directly responsible for this. It is no wonder that the coordination of objectives and role-sharing between several ministries and agencies is inefficient. At the same time, this is an area of strategic importance for the country, which must be constantly politically managed and where professional support services must be provided. Like the Netherlands and Finland, the Minister for Foreign Trade could also be responsible for development cooperation. Both are very important and often overlapping directions in our foreign policy. Such a step would strengthen and motivate our External Action Service more broadly and would put more pressure on us to implement the network of foreign representations in order to protect Estonia's economic interests. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to assessing the state of foreign trade policy, the Committee on Foreign Affairs analysed in more detail the new governance model in the field of strategic communication in the various authorities last year and established in the State Chancellery. As I mentioned above, free society is increasingly the target of external influence, which is directly linked to national security and social cohesion. Consider, for example, how much confusion Russia's intervention in the US presidential election has caused so far. The government's decision to allocate additional resources to the development of strategic communication and the fight against influence against our society is a fully-fledged initiative. In further work, it is important that the monitoring centres and the analyses carried out by the various authorities support better coordination both the day-to-day activities of the government and the readiness to respond to crises of varying degrees. The foreign relations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs itself were traditionally active last year. When planning external visits, we focused in particular on strengthening allied relations, in which it is worth noting the exchange of visits with our Italian colleagues. A delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs also visited China. This year we are already preparing visits to the United States, Ukraine and Moldova. Of course, the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency of the European Union, in which we held a security conference together with the National Defence Committee at the beginning of September, made it particularly important. At this point, I would like to thank everyone who worked for the success of this conference. Feedback from our colleagues confirms that we can be satisfied with what we have achieved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U105	Questions for the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Estonia has an Asian report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu since 2012, which clearly expresses Estonia's interests and opportunities in Asia until 2025. You were the leaders in the drafting of this report. How do you assess the impact of this report on Estonia's policy towards Asia now, when less than half the time is already up: what can be delighted about and what thoughts of that time should be more intensively linked to reality in the management of foreign policy processes? Perhaps you will also give a separate opinion or an assessment of how relations with China are progressing, given that China's interest in investing in Europe is growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U107	Thank you, good Urve, for a very important question. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu conducted hearings on Estonia's policy towards Asia at the beginning of the previous term and did indeed produce a report. It was completed in 2012 and there were a series of recommendations for the Government of the Republic, which areas to channel additional resources or what decisions to make. I am pleased to give the same example as the Foreign Minister's replies, where there was a reference to the Committee on Economic Development. Of course, we looked specifically at Asia-related activities at the time. What we are talking about, mainly in the case of Asia, is long-term growing markets, we are talking about economic policy and external trade relations, and not just one or two countries, but with a broader focus on the whole region. In addition, one of our recommendations at the time was that, like the Security Committee with the government, a ministerial committee coordinating foreign trade could also be associated with the Prime Minister. Over the last year, the State Chancellery, and more specifically the Prime Minister, has set up an economic development committee that really brings together the ministries, or authorities, who are responsible for promoting foreign trade every day in their work. If we look primarily at the foreign trade figures relating to China, but also to a number of other Asian countries, trade has undoubtedly increased during this period. This will certainly be a positive boost for the work done by the European Union in concluding free trade agreements. There is undoubtedly one country in which Estonia is not yet present, and we also referred to it in this same Asia-Report, South Korea, which is now the focus of everyone thanks to the Olympic Games. It is a country that plays an extremely important role in the global economy. The free trade agreement between the European Union and South Korea has actually given a very positive boost. I met with the Latvian Ambassador when I was in Seoul last autumn and I can assure you that the increase in trade has been significant. [[Latvia has an embassy in South Korea]] We have very well developed relations with Japan in recent years. A recent visit by the Japanese Prime Minister to Tallinn with a very high level of business delegation is certainly an example of the direction in which we have progressed. If one part of the question was to come to China again, we can see that trade figures are undoubtedly increasing and that there are significantly more Estonian entrepreneurs who have entered the Chinese market. I am pleased that, in addition to the recent visit by the President of the Riigikogu to China, the visit of the President of the Republic to China will hopefully take place this year. This is the extremely important level of communication that we have also emphasised in 2018. It is precisely high-level visits that must be used to create better conditions for the growth of bilateral trade. But not only are economic issues important. China is now playing a very important role in world politics, and I think that the investment that Estonia made in its own time to build a new embassy building and thus to increase the capacity of its presence is undeniably important. I was talking about China and Japan earlier, but alongside them, India is still having a very significant impact in Asia. A few years ago, several people in Estonia doubted how right the decision was to establish an embassy in New Delhi, India. I think that the long but fortunately successful story of the ship's defences over the last few years shows convincingly that, in fact, our foreign missions also have an extremely important role to play in protecting citizens' rights. Also, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, which paid a lot of attention to this topic in 2012, is pleased to note that this attention has also been given to the academic level, for example. Our proposals at the time, too, to ensure that universities can work more together through the establishment of a joint centre for Asia's competence, have borne fruit. It is a pleasure to note that the first major Asian forum, which should take place at the beginning of 2019, is currently being prepared under the leadership of the University of Tartu. So, indeed, there are very different levels of action, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs will, of course, keep an eye on this in its current composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U108	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U109	Good President! Good Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs! In your speech, you proposed that the chief responsible for foreign trade could be the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, next to the Minister of Foreign Trade, the Minister of Foreign Trade could also be in office. My question is, in your opinion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is better responsible for foreign trade than the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. And under which ministry would you see EAS, who should be the right hand of the Foreign Trade Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U110	Thank you, good Anne! Of course, you have a very clear experience of your recent concrete practice. And this experience is believed to speak of what is actually emphasised by the fresh strategy of business diplomacy, which I quoted. We see the so-called shortcomings in the political transport of foreign trade and foreign economic activities in Estonia: the role of the responsible person often falls between different ministries and administrations. Foreign trade can also be taken in several ways in the context of political decision-making. It is one thing to create an environment so that, both when our entrepreneurs leave Estonia and when foreign investors come to Estonia, the best conditions have been created at all, or because of me, the necessary support mechanisms. However, one important area is also external trade relations, relations with international trade organisations at European Union level, all of which relate, for example, to the European Commission's activities, to the conclusion of free trade agreements. Of course, communication will be developed with those countries where we would like to export more or where we could receive investment. This proposal does not mean the creation of additional posts. Rather, the question is that since all this "export success" and the existence of investment volume affect so many jobs in Estonia, it is clear that the government should also be more politically responsible than it has been so far. There was also a question about EAS in the question that was asked. We have only recently listened to an overview of the activities of EAS in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The current leaders of EAS very vividly acknowledged that we are actually able to maintain EAS foreign representation offices around the world at 14 times today, largely thanks to the European Union's resources, the European Union's support. I think that, as a state of self-respect, we should still have so much strength that, in a priority area such as foreign trade and representing ourselves abroad, investment or resources would come from our own 'clean budget'. Therefore, in the context of the new budgetary perspective of the European Union, this is also a forum for discussion in the coming years, hopefully after the next Riigikogu elections, the new coalition that will be created. But I see that this is where a good, meaningful political debate is undeniably very necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U111	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has reviewed, evaluated and analysed Estonia's foreign policy from a number of perspectives as well as from a number of values. Please tell us whether Estonian politics towards the tribal peoples have been sufficiently bold or rather cautious in recent years, especially towards the tribal peoples of Russia. And what can we do more courageously here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U113	Thank you, good Krista, very important question! In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this issue has been on the agenda regularly every year as part of a major hearing. For years, we have undoubtedly not only been an interested party here. Estonia has either taken bilateral steps through, for example, the activities of our Republic's embassy in Moscow or, which is to be denied there, has also acted through purely public diplomacy or folk diplomacy. The Committee on Foreign Affairs recently examined the situation of cross-border cooperation in South-East Estonia. Our Setos also pointed out that in recent years they have not been directly confined to cross-border activities, but have also been quite active in dealing with those tribal peoples who live beyond our borders. I think this is an area where more could certainly be done. We must, of course, also bear in mind the limitations or obstacles that Russia has, unfortunately, made in implementing such cooperation or assistance programmes. But what is important is that Estonia is not alone here, too, Finland has undoubtedly contributed quite a lot to what is being done in this field over the years. I believe that we are one of the Finno-Ugric peoples and countries in this troika, which will continue to pay important attention to this area. There are certainly places where our MEPs, for example, are represented in international parliamentary assemblies, where Russia is represented, even though in recent years the work there is much more limited due to the events in Ukraine, could draw attention to the bottlenecks affecting the situation of minorities in the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U114	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Over the years, the European Union has increasingly started to regulate life in the Member States. In the morning, you also stayed on television in Poland, where the support of the decision makers has risen, behind them is like the will of the people. My question concerns whether Estonia has really had an opinion on the lives of sovereign states or whether our opinion is the same as that of the European Commission. Can you suddenly give an example if we have had a slightly different opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U116	The answer to this question could be that, in my personal opinion, the current management of the European Commission has not approached the issue of Poland, which you mentioned, in the most sensible way. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also referred to this in his answers. Yesterday, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs also discussed the situation in Poland for quite a while. We focused on internal policy and looked at what are the reasons why one or the other decision, which has found international criticism in Poland, has developed. But the most important thing, in my opinion, is to take the view that it is important for Estonia to have a system of international relations based on agreed rules and free and liberal democracy, including how the Western countries work together both in the European Union and in the wider world, including NATO. We can see that there are some pretty serious concerns and so-called break-up places. We can certainly talk about the effects of Brexit and individual referendums and their effects. We can also talk about external influence, which is actually aimed at disrupting the European Union internally, as well as disrupting NATO cooperation. Above all, from the point of view of Estonia's future and security, it is extremely important that we have as many friends and allies as possible, all of whom work together against these threats, which we and Poland have very similar. In fact, we have very similar positions with Poland on very many issues, particularly as regards security and the steps we should take in the European Union together or also in NATO. I would certainly like to acknowledge that both our Member, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, as Minister Mikser, only visited Poland last week and became very familiar with the situation there. And it turns out that there is a great deal to be listened to by our Polish colleagues as well. I also call on the Riigikogu, such as the Estonian-Polish parliamentary group, to be more active, to interact with our Polish colleagues in these debates and discussions. We are also talking about the future of Europe and the European Union. In all this talk, you see, in the Brexit vote, the British made one or another decision, they were misinformed or really seriously critical, it seems to many people that Brussels has taken on a decision that is opaque and undemocratic. This is certainly a very serious point of view also at European Union level. I believe that the idea put forward by President Macron that there could be discussions in the Member States of the European Union on this, including at citizens' level, is precisely the direction that the European Union could now move and develop into. Their content could also be what we should do together to avoid prejudice. Prejudice certainly exists and, unfortunately, in the context of the European Union, there is a very strong East West. The countries of Eastern Europe are often faced with so-called bottlenecks and problems and are seen much more tragically than the same developments in Western European countries. It is certainly not in Estonia's interest to deepen, in the context of Europe, the so-called breakaway in the East versus the West, which we are beginning to overcome and to which, for its part, the forces who would like to see the European Union in the process of decay are injecting. So I believe that in this context, this year, which has remained until the next elections of our Riigikogu, is a good year to have a serious debate within Estonia on the question of our view of the future budget of the European Union and of Estonia's position there. These debates are yet to be held in this Chamber, including the role that the European Union or the European Commission could or should play in considering issues of the rule of law, especially when Article 7 of the Lisbon Treaty has now been applied to one Member State. I would ask whether these issues should not be discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. After all, this organisation was established in 1949 to monitor whether or not the rule of law in the Member States of the Council of Europe is working. But I will certainly refrain from making very quick decisions in black and white with regard to Poland.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U117	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! This change in the share of free and non-free countries since 2007, which you have highlighted, is, I think, quite eloquently describing the present world, but ten years is still a very short perspective. That is why I am asking: how will this development be influenced by the new media, which is not so easily verifiable? How can we view restrictions on Internet freedom in China, Russia and other countries? And what should we do to make freedom a central value? I think we should evaluate this matter in terms of three or forty years, perhaps more decades ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U119	Thank you, good Andres! Of course, ten years is not a long time, but he is eloquent as a trend. And as a trend, this time is eloquent in many ways. We see, in fact, that the authoritarian and the free world, at times even with military force, has become considerably more influential in international relations over the last ten years. And as I mentioned in my speech, unfortunately, the Western world itself has made several steps back. This is largely due to the inner developments of the Western world. The Western world is no longer as rich as it was in the 1990s, when the economic impact largely determined the role Western countries could play for me, even in the Middle East, which has been so much talked about today. We can see that this capacity actually no longer exists. On the other hand, there is no capacity to draw up strategic plans, what action the European Union could have at all, to have any impact in the context of the conflict in Syria or in the Middle East at all. Of course, we need to understand that the European Union is still an NGO of independent countries, as I mentioned. Countries also have very specific interests and, as a result, foreign policy ambition at European Union level is, in a sense, limited. I already gave an example of Mogher. At the turn of the year, there was quite a lot of international criticism about him. While he found time to visit Cuba and make interesting statements there, to say the least, there were riots across Iran, where peaceful people died. And days were not followed by any statement from Mogherin to protect them, at least to say that it is not right to impose violence against peaceful protests. But it is indisputably a very serious, yet very sensitive, issue that you mentioned in the free media, in particular the cross-border impact of social media and the possibilities of using it against free societies. The sensitive question is that, of course, freedom of expression is the foundation of a free society. Any action in this same field of information, whether imposing restrictions or rules that are not'self-made', is a very serious point of discussion. At the same time, we must bear in mind what we have seen, for example, in the United States, France, Spain, Great Britain and Germany, in fact, in the most important, so-called large elections in the Netherlands. I would point out that in a few weeks, the elections will also be important in Italy. All these elections have had an external intervention in one way or another: cyber attacks have been used, as well as instruments that are perfectly legal in the social media network, in order to influence people's decisions in these very free elections when they express their minds. If we overlook it, we can really find ourselves at some point in a situation where others decide our fate. This is why it is extremely important to have a national debate on the strategic communication sector in Estonia, which has also been monitored by the Committee on Foreign Affairs during the year. It is also important that the government, if it makes these decisions, does so in full knowledge that any other solution in this hall has been referred to in the debate today, namely the activities of Tallinn City Government, which is not in the interests of the Estonian state, but is very narrowly serving someone's interests, as we know.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U120	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs! The main theme of the presentation was coordination, to which strategic communication was added. What would be the first steps to move forward here? And what approaches should be changed in order to coordinate cooperation between authorities, ministries and the level of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U122	Thank you, good Ain! If you take the word 'coordination' more broadly and talk, for example, about the relations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or with another ministry that has contacts with foreign communication, then I can say, not only from the experience of the last year, but from the experience of the last 15 years, that this cooperation has always been very good. To the individual places where coordination could really be better, we have, of course, pointed out and will continue to point out during parliamentary surveillance. I do not doubt the people who are currently working in the Estonian External Action Service to protect our interests either here in Estonia or in our foreign embassies. They do it very professionally. But I don't think there's anything to do from year to year the world's getting more complicated and, unfortunately, the dangers around us are not shrinking. At the same time, Estonia has opportunities to do better. I also call for much more attention in the political debate to be paid to whether the resource currently being directed to our External Action Service is still proportional to what we expect from this External Action Service. We will certainly try to find the places where, for example, making the law on the External Action Service more flexible, through the preparation of the report launched by the Committee on Foreign Affairs last month, through both hearings and a study commissioned during the year, and to find out whether the network of foreign representations will ensure that the objectives we have set in foreign policy are met or whether information on any other related activities can be found. I think this debate is important. Of course, no party will win an election if it only talks about foreign policy and that diplomacy needs more money. But this concerns all of us, the Estonian state would be in a very poor position if we did not have a professional, successful and operational External Action Service. This also ensures the success of all other activities in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U123	Thank you, Marko Mihkelson! No further questions. Let's start the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu, good callers! I hope that the first callers will be all representatives of the political groups. And secondly, I have one introductory remark for all the performers. Often people ask me that if someone shows up in this chair and asks for more time, why does he have to ask why they don't give eight minutes immediately? Now, there's a typical example: I'm asking the performers to stay within five minutes and I'm not giving you any extra time. It is not beautiful of me, but for this, all six political groups will receive their contributions. First on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U124	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonian foreign policy has been consensus-based and consistent, despite changes in domestic political power. As the previous speakers have already stated, the greater objective of our foreign policy is the security and continued guarantee of independence of the 100-year-old Estonian state, and so it will remain in the future through good international relations, based on a rule-based multilateral world order. The existence of small countries is based on a rule-based multilateral world order since the peace of Westphalia, or the 17th century, with which the principle of 'Whose power, its right' has retreated. However, this system of relations is currently facing serious challenges. Democratic justice is no longer as self-evident as following developments in the world, even in influential democracies. Unpredictable leaders with authoritarian tendencies emerge, through democratic processes. Human rights and other value-based principles are being called into question, which seemed to be undisputed ideals to pursue at the end of the last century. Cyberspace has opened up new opportunities, but it has also brought new risks. Significant progress has been made to bring the refugee crisis under control, but Europe is still under pressure from migration from less developed regions. Migration is affected by wars and poverty, but more and more by environmental problems. All of this also affects domestic policy choices in Europe, where popular support for the closure of nation states seems to be growing at times. An open and free world is no longer ideal for many, and greater restrictions and national sealing are accepted for the sake of seeming security. We are closely following developments against the euro, especially in Central and Eastern Europe, Poland and Hungary belonging to the European Union, which, unfortunately, are welcomed by some political forces in Estonia. At a time when the economy is more international than ever, the sustainability of the global economic model will be questioned. Unfortunately, the influence of the West and the economic share of the world are gradually decreasing. Stability and predictability have become a permanent state. How can we ensure peace and security in this situation? The best cure for any security threat is the unity of our allies and partners sharing the same values and rules. NATO is and will remain the cornerstone of the military defence of the Estonian state and NATO membership and Article 5 as the most effective deterrent. Solidarity in the European Union and cooperation between the European Union and NATO are equally important. PESCO provides an opportunity to strengthen the real defence capabilities of the Member States, reduce costs, improve situational awareness and more quickly transfer troops. Estonia is a relatively new member of the European Union, as are other Eastern and Central European countries. We therefore well understand the aspirations of the Balkan countries and our eastern partners, Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova, in their approach to the European Union. We support them in this process. At the same time, we realise that the European Union is now much more fragile than in 2004 when Estonia joined the European Union. We will follow Brexit's talks closely and hope that the major members of the Union, France and Germany, will continue on the path of a strong and united European Union. Estonia was the Presidency of the European Union last year and we are probably only beginning to understand the scale of the 2017 political experience in Estonia's history. Never before have there been so many influential leaders, political elites, on whom the present and future of the world depend. And all of this took place here in Tallinn, somehow, without a bigger sound, which means it went well. Estonian foreign policy is managed professionally and consistently. While the content of international agreements may be distant to people who are not interested in foreign policy, the crises and terrorist acts of recent years, including in Europe, have heightened each person's understanding of possible threats abroad. In any case, the European Union's capacity to act at times of crisis is important. And we can be sure that the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working professionally in this regard. I wanted to talk more about business diplomacy, the strengthening of which is undoubtedly important and also requires additional resources, but I think the previous speakers have said enough about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U125	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U126	The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that in recent years the most profound and fundamental challenge has been to challenge the values of liberal democracy. I must say that it is amazing to consider the greatest challenge to doubt the values of liberal democracy. Are illegal immigration, Islamisation in Europe, terrorism, aggression in Russia, etc. not challenges? The labelling of democracy is absurd. Either there is democracy or there is no democracy. Even the fundamental documents of the European Union speak of democracy, not liberal democracy. European culture and morality are based on Christian values, which are the source of the true unity and democracy of the peoples of Europe. Since liberal democracy deals with freedom without moral criteria, it can justify anything. The focus is on making tolerance and highlighting extreme personal rights and freedoms, not democratic responsibilities and responsibilities. When marginal minorities make decisions and determine values, democracy is not a dictation. Liberal democracy has failed: its values are not values, but distortions. It is not that they are being challenged that is a challenge for Europe, it gives Europe a new opportunity and hope to overcome the real challenges. The government has made a series of foreign policy decisions that contradict real values and the security situation in the world. For example, in the United Nations, Estonia voted against the US declaration to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. The government's motives outweighed the common sense. I also see here the desire of certain individuals to lower Trump, which represents conservative values. There's nothing value-based about this behavior. Palestine is an area held by the Arabs and Hamas, not a country. They have rejected all the possibilities of agreement with Israel, yet the two countries are talking about a solution and are precisely supporting the party using terrorism. If relations between Estonia and the US are violated by the question of Jerusalem, where Estonia has no competence, interests or weight, then it is one of the largest foreign policy phobias. Now Poland, accused of violating the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law. It does not matter that there is a similar system in Germany and the Netherlands. It is a witch hunt against Poland, which refuses to submit to the dictatorship of liberal values and to reduce the sovereignty and discretion of the Member States. And it is not only Poland, but a whole series of countries behind it. We should be there too, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not answer how Estonia intends to vote on this issue. The Commission has also discussed the plan to limit payments from the common budget to countries. Unlike the homo parade, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs is silent. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs joined the appeal of certain embassies, which allowed the LGBT community of the Baltic States to be protected from violence, to secure their human rights and to end discrimination based on sexual orientation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs therefore claims that all this is happening in Estonia. What values do such disparage and damage to reputation go hand in hand with? Although it is a matter of the competence of the Riigikogu and it has not even been discussed in this Chamber, the Minister declares that Estonia is prepared to increase its contributions to the European Union, although, together with its increase and the reduction of Structural Funds money, we are essentially no longer net recipients. Instead, we should call for an end to the pointless waste in Brussels, but no! Is sucking up one of the values of liberal democracy? Estonia stood out with bold decisions in the 1990s, but today there is nothing left of it. Estonia has lost its values and the sharpness of foreign policy. Our foreign policy is visionless, cowardly and puppetlike. Foreign policy lacks national dignity, although it is not expected of a foreign minister whose party declares that national statehood is an inhuman and dangerous dystopia. Thank you. It took exactly five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U127	Mart Nutt on behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U128	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It has already been mentioned several times today that the world is restless. Perhaps even more worrying is that the trend is towards the growth of this unrest. Major crises have been around us for years: we note Syria, Russia's occupied Crimea and the south-eastern part of Ukraine, Libya and very many regions in North Africa in general. But we cannot miss what is happening on the Korean Peninsula, which has not reached the point of a hot war, and we hope that we will not, but no development can be ruled out. We can talk about the situation of the rohalers in Myanmar and very many regions of the Middle East. When we ask how much these conflicts can affect the situation in Estonia, we regret to admit that very much, and not only those conflicts that may potentially arise in our immediate neighbourhood, but also farther away. One thing is a possible conflict of arms in Europe, for which I believe it will not get here, but the result of armed conflicts elsewhere is a huge movement of people that directly affects Europe. Maybe its impact on Estonia is indirect, but we are part of the European Union and therefore we cannot say in any way that it does not concern us. But let's look at the other side. On the basis of the last year, we can see that the migration crisis has somewhat eased because the number of people who have, for example, crossed the Mediterranean or moved from Turkey to Greece has fallen. But when we look at the demographic picture in the world, we see additional factors. First of all, we have to admit that in both Asian and Latin American countries, there has been a pretty strong fall in fruitage. Unfortunately, the conflicts there have not decreased, which means that the population movement is still active. But population growth has indeed slowed down there, and there may even be the same problem as in Europe that these countries are expecting very rapid ageing and labour shortages. However, this does not apply to Africa. There are just over 1 billion people living in Africa today, while there are just over 500 million people living in the European Union. However, when we look at the problems in Africa, we see huge environmental issues there. We also see very big issues relating, for example, to desertification and high unemployment. This is complemented by the highest levels of growth, reaching 4 billion at the end of this century in the case of current developments. So if the crops do not change, the population of Africa will grow fourfold, potentially by the end of this century. This means only one thing: as a result, the migratory pressure on developed countries will not drop, but rather increase. For Estonia so much, Estonia has certainly made the right decisions. One can even say that the only right decisions, especially as regards our security policy choices, NATO and membership of the European Union. However, it is appropriate to ask whether anything else can be done. I suppose the answer is yes. Estonia has been rather passive in communication outside the European Union. This concerns Asia, the American continent, especially South and Latin America, Africa. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U129	There's no extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U130	Well, then, let me get this straight and highlight a few aspects. Firstly, we have achieved visa liberalisation in foreign policy with many countries, but yet many countries have not given us visa liberalisation, even though, for example, Finns and Swedes have. I think there's room for growth. I also mention what is one of our country's priorities, the status of a provisional member of the UN Security Council. I think it is important for us to act on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U131	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please! There's no extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U132	Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia was basically the first country to know the Brexit decision of the United Kingdom separating from the European Union in its own right last year. Since Britain gave up its Presidency after the Brexit referendum, we had to take over their role six months earlier than planned, rather short notice. And we did it so elegantly and professionally that, by the end of the year, probably no one would even remember that, in fact, the British Presidency should have taken place. So 99-year-old Estonia did well with the first Presidency of the European Union in its history. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I thank all those who have already received recognition from the President, as well as all those who have not received recognition from the President, but nevertheless worked hard to succeed in the Presidency. Unfortunately, we have a much worse picture if we look at the foreign policy line of government politicians, more specifically the politicians of the government party. I'll be honest with you, it's not comfortable to talk about it, but you can't keep quiet. Has the external environment become significantly more favourable for Estonia compared to a year ago? Not much. Have the members of the government, who began their term of office with unprecedented steps, grabbing a pen in a government office without the participation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in a narrow circle of power politicians, to ease the text of the long-prepared Prime Minister's declaration on Russia, given up their separatist foreign policy? Far from it. In previous years, Estonia has been one of those on the international stage who vocally warns against unfriendly Russian actions. Our perception and knowledge of the security situation in this region, the courage and accuracy of their expression, are something that has rightly been highly valued in Europe. Our expertise on Russia's influence has also been appreciated in the past. Three years ago in Brussels, among other things, a special unit was born on our initiative, one of whose tasks is precisely to combat this constant flow of propaganda aimed at discrediting and mutilating the European Union from the Kremlin. But let's see what's going on at home. Our current Prime Minister's Party is talking with one side to Brussels about the need to fight Kremlin propaganda, but with the other side it justifies the funding of this very Kremlin propaganda machine here at home, the purchase of programmes and news for tens of millions of dollars. Yes, I am talking about the Prime Minister's decision to protect and approve the Estonian cash injection to the Kremlin-related propaganda channel PBK. This situation is not only schizophrenic, but directly undermines Estonia's credibility on the subject of which all the countries of the European Union are in trouble and for which our expertise has previously been entrusted. Or another example: a member of the government has approved the introduction of EUR 40 million in Russia into a strategic sector that is very closely interlinked with the policy, which suffers from a lack of money due to sanctions. For good reason, Estonia has stressed the importance of respecting the principles of Russian policy agreed by consensus to maintain the European Union united. Against this background, a member of our government approves of the decision to give a financial injection to Russia, directly linking Estonia's state company to one of the sectors of Russia subject to sanctions due to the aggression, which is infiltrated by politics. Yeah, I'm talking about the car business. Reliability, credibility and keeping our word rather than our own has been our important foreign policy capital. If it disappears, our prospects as a country will be poor. There is another important development that cannot be overlooked today. This concerns the treatment of Estonia as essentially its own occupation or, if you wish, as a legal successor to the Estonian SSR, which has infiltrated and persisted in the rhetoric of our government. Unbiased observers must acknowledge that, despite the alleged freezing of the Cooperation Agreement with the United Russia, the government's leading party has consistently acted in the spirit of this agreement in practice and has helped in its steps to fulfil the strategic wish of the Putin regime that we gradually move away from the current crystal clear policy of maintaining the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and become a successor with the confused status of the former Soviet republic. Good coalition politicians, do you actually understand what you're playing with? I don't think the irreversible damage has already been done. But if we look quietly at these unfolding signs and the evolving pattern in front of us and we give up reacting, we give up, and we adopt the attitude that let the boys in the government go crazy, then we can all discover ourselves at one point in a situation whose consequences are tragic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U133	On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U134	Ladies and gentlemen, A few years ago, I was with friends in Venice, where we visited the Dodzh Palace. One of the hundreds of fellow tourists heard our conversation in Estonian and asked where we were from. 'Estonia,' I said. 'Aha,' answered the man, 'Estonia! I know you're the ones who are afraid of Russia. Putin's coming in, isn't he? ' There have indeed been two foreign policy objectives in the second Republic of Estonia. Firstly, to enter the world's mighty, the European Union and NATO, which we have succeeded. And second, once you get there, turn yourself into an expert in Russia's fear, which has succeeded. Of course, sitting at a table with other countries only to constantly and uninterruptedly warn them about Russia, this first objective, and not to take full advantage of our diplomatic efforts in the 1990s. But as long as the world rather believed in fukuyamalik's end of history and thought that liberalism was like the universe, only expanding, it was a little strange, but perhaps understandable, because of the history of Eastern Europeans. It's different now. No one believes in the end of history or the universality of liberalism anymore. There are right political and economic decisions in anarchist international space, consisting of various and sovereign states, as a guarantee of such diversity. In this world, we need a new goal. It is not in Estonia's interest to be afraid of Russia to help the right-wing elections to win. What is it? One president once said the following words to students in the hall of the University of Tartu: 'Your job with weapons of knowledge and skills is to take part in the creation of this country into a progressive and developed country, on which the beautiful seal of Estonia can always survive! " This is a good idea for all of us. What are the weapons of knowledge and skills that we can use in foreign policy? What will be the beautiful seal of Estonia when we wash away the fame of 'Those Who Fear Russia'? Estonia is a small country. In international politics, small countries are essential because they have an excellent position to be negotiating agents. Small countries can make recommendations that do not look at the ears of colonialism or the establishment of the right world order. Take, for example, the same President, whose speech on 12 March 1964 I quoted. It was Urho Kaleva Kekkonen. Already during that visit, he worked at international level for a peace conference that would bring one table to the table, without speaking about the US and the Soviet Union, European countries and Canada, in order to agree on the rules of the post-war world. He succeeded in 1975 in Helsinki. The aim of Brezhnev at that conference was to make the US officially recognise the existence of the Soviet Union. Kekkos managed to persuade Brezhnev to sign in return a document that recognised human rights and promised to interfere with national internal policies on human rights. Yes, the world recognized the Soviet Empire in 1975, but the Soviet Union gave the Western world the opportunity to criticize itself in a way that only destroyed this empire. Is it Brezhnev's great victory or his second-handed success to the West? Achieving such a result requires excellence, a great deal of understanding from other politicians and the national media. In Finland it was all there at the time. Estonia is not in such a difficult situation today, but this is a good example, which can be achieved by a skilled negotiator and that a small country can take the lead at great moments. Finland's negotiators have been valued in the world to this day. Why couldn't Estonia have it too? After all, we showed ourselves in a very flexible way during the Presidency when we reached an agreement on the Posted Workers Directive, which no one expected. We can proudly say that thanks to our mediation skills, a European worker is now more protected. What can be done in practice? First of all, abandoning the division of the world into friends and enemies, good and villains and looking at all countries as just actors with their own interests. Secondly, to increase our External Action Service to be present in as many countries as possible, to establish direct contacts and to provide the information we need. Thirdly, to establish an international institute for conflict resolution and negotiation. It would be an institution that would coordinate existing foreign policy knowledge, weapons of our knowledge and skills, facilitate the work of researchers and students from other countries in Estonia, thus ensuring links with specialists from all continents and providing Estonians with an effective negotiator education. In this way, we would give the world the knowledge that with their pragmatism, neutrality and humanity, Estonians can always get the opposites to the table. We would also give ourselves the knowledge of how differently the world can be understood and how it can continue to exist peacefully in this world. 'Ah from Estonia! ' someone else will be told in front of the Dodzh Palace at the once successful centre of a small trade republic. 'I know Estonia, you are the peacemakers! ' Wouldn't that be a beautiful seal for Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U135	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U136	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party Group would particularly like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is no longer in the Chamber, for quoting Jaan Tõnisson, or doing what Krista Aru usually does here. This was an invitation to the birth of Estonian diplomacy to identify individuals who could stand up to defend our national interests. I wonder what else to say with Krista's help I quote a few times from Jaan Tõnisson's later time. A little over ten years later, in 1929, he has said as the founder of the Pan-European Estonian Society: 'Everything that strengthens European unity also ensures our national self-being. By supporting and respecting the Pan-European Union in fulfilling all of our binding international agreements, we are working for our independence, economic prosperity and the preservation of national culture. ' Estonia has been part of the European Union for a long time now, and all the objectives that Tõnisson formulated have actually come true. But in this retrospect, of course, I cannot fail to state that we have serious concerns about the future of the European Union, about the reputation of the European Union and, on many issues, about the action of the European Union. It is clear to us that this is a cultural space, an identity and where we want and have to belong, but there are problems. These problems are also highlighted in the public opinion, for example, when it comes to mandatory quotas for asylum seekers. As well as building this system in Estonia, and for a few, Estonia is a goal as a country of destination, it is something that erodes confidence. Similarly, all these tendencies towards a centrally driven unitary state cannot certainly be our interest or goal. Poland was mentioned above. Let me put it this way. I fully agree that such collective condemnation at European level, without approving everything that is happening in any other Visegrád country, is not quite rational and quite good. Perhaps we must consider that these societies have their own specifics. While various state institutions were built from scratch in Estonia, in many Eastern European countries the communist past was essentially taken over and conflicts were coded, which are now manifest. And they appear in different ways in different countries. This rediscovery of the East and the West is certainly not in our interest or good. But we will move on to what Tõnisson said in 1939 when the tragic tones of world politics began to approach us as well: 'Estonia's realistic foreign policy must be both conceptual and far-sighted. Only in this way can we fulfill our role in the family of the nations of the world. " With farsightedness, even when the speaker saw far away, there were difficulties at the time. I suppose this 'ideal' should mean 'value-based' or 'liberal democracy' in our current language, just as the Foreign Minister used the word. And I assume that the word 'liberal' is used in this case in a European sense, not in an American sense that has acquired a left-wing image. The loss of free countries on the world map is certainly a major concern and will affect us. It was strange to hear here that four political parties are on one side of the liberal democracy approach, but critical tones come from the right and left extremes, or the EKRE and the Centre Party. And finally, the one that was said a little bit little. More could have been said about the Eastern Partnership dimension, which is important to us. The question of Finno-Ugric emerged in the round of questions and answers. Finally, we have not changed very much in foreign policy, but I hope that the government will resolve the concerns expressed with regard to PBK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-13_U137	The political groups have no further requests to speak. Dear Riigikogu, I apologise once again for not giving me extra time, but if you look at the clock, you will understand that the last two speakers would not have been able to speak otherwise. I will close this item on the agenda. Director's break is 7 minutes and 10 seconds. Closure of the sitting at 13.53 a.m.
