ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Question Time has begun. Requesting presence check! There are 32 ambassadors. The following members of government will take part in Question Time today: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of State Administration Janek Mäggi. We have nine registered questioners, which is why we can allow an additional question to be asked in the debate on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U2	The first question is asked by Enn Meri, the Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Yesterday we had a visit from the National Audit Office, which gave us, among other things, his vision of the number of employees of the PBGB. The National Audit Office considered that the number of employees of the PBGB is close to the critical border and that in the coming years it will be even worse. The Postman will write about the same thing today. As of 1 January 2018, 4915 people worked at the PBA, of which there were around 500 patrol police officers, i.e. 10%, which I think is significant. According to the National Audit Office, 900 people will retire in the coming years. Officers retire after 25 years of service and then receive a special pension. Usually they're about 50 years old and go to work somewhere else. If a police officer should continue to work for the police after retirement, he will lose a special pension. Does the Prime Minister not see the possibility of at least changing the pension arrangements of a police officer so that the police officer can continue to work with the police, in addition to the retirement age, without losing a special pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U4	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Good guests! First of all, thank you for this question. Mr Enn Meri, I remember last week you asked me about the number of employees on public pay right here in Question Time. I told you in response at the time that, in any case, the increase in efficiency is important, but I do not support a reduction in the number of staff in the medical field and also in the area of internal security, in the police and, for example, in the rescue service. You refer to the overview of the use and preservation of state assets transferred to the Riigikogu yesterday 2017. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: Indeed, in Chapter VI, the conclusion is as follows: 'In recent years, more attention has been paid to the wage increase of the staff of the PBGB and this has managed to slow down the decline in the staff of the PBGB (and now this important side will be there. J. R.), but not to be stopped. ' Of course it's a problem. What have we done with today's government? The Minister of the Interior has put forward a proposal to that effect. First of all, whether it is possible to raise salaries in the PBGB is a very strong question of the payroll. Today's government has foreseen EUR 12.9 million for the next year, which means that, for example, in Ida-Virumaa, the real income of patrol police officers will be in the order of EUR 1700, EUR 1600 in Tallinn and EUR 1400 in the rest of Estonia. In addition, we have decided that the number of district police officers will increase by 45 and that the number of rapid response agents will increase by 82. This special pension issue comes on the table again and again at a certain time. I think it is worthwhile to continue these discussions in any case, especially by looking at today's demographic situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U5	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Perhaps every discussion should not start by reducing the number of public employees. In this case, we are talking primarily about ministerial officials, we are not talking about policemen or teachers. But okay, I'll do that introduction. The aging of police officers has been a problem for a long time. I realized from an interview by the Minister of the Interior yesterday that the solution was already on the table in the government so that the police could continue to work while receiving a pension or a partial pension, something like that, but it is behind the Ministry of Justice or the Minister of Justice sitting next to you. When and when will the Minister of the Interior come back to the government with a solution and how will this be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U7	Thank you. I think that the question that your groupmate, Mr Meri, raised is important. We see a very strong increase in the number of policemen who are going to retire in the coming years. We can see that in this area, in the area of the Police and Border Guard Board, other agencies are also competing for these same women and men. Looking at the demographic situation, we can see that the Estonian population is ageing. If you ask whether the Minister of the Interior will bring this issue back to the government's table, I will say that once the discussions have been held and further analyses have been carried out, I do not see any reason why the government should not take it back and hold a debate on this matter. I'm sure I'm ready for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U8	Since Andres Herkel asked for an additional question, the only person in the Chamber who can ask a more specific question is Enn Meri. [[A voice from the hall.]] But I'd like you to give me a signal, too, wouldn't I? I was just explaining. Javier got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U9	I'll ask the Prime Minister. Thank you, manager. This time limit, I mean this 25 years of service, is that a person retires at the age of 50. Don't you think that should be changed? If you think about it, a 50 or 52-year-old is usually in quite good shape. This is, in my opinion, an outdated thing and it should be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U10	Thank you. First of all, this overall assessment. I think this age shows that people are in very good mental and physical condition. I don't mean to say that those people who are 62, 72 or 82 shouldn't be, it's still very individual. But in general, I certainly agree that 50 is age if perhaps many would like to continue in their service relationship. At the moment, it is true that this choice point is very strong that if it continues in the police department or in the border guard, which is not prohibited, the second income, which is linked to a special pension, will disappear. So a choice has to be made. We know that very many are not leaving the labour market, but are continuing their careers in the private sector or in the public sector, somewhere else. Should we open a discussion on whether this retirement age should be higher? If we look at the trends in pension reform, it can be said that the pension system is becoming more and more flexible. Whether to raise the retirement age of police officers, we have not dealt directly with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U12	Next, Jürgen Ligi asks, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U13	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! We have seen you on trains sharing chocolate, for example on Monday you took a train from Keila to Tallinn, and the cameras are always with you. Today you got the time to participate in a party event where there were new members, there you presented them, tomorrow you'll be with them in northern Tallinn. But we would expect the Prime Minister to lead the government and to hold substantive debates. You probably hoped that the subject of the migration pact would simply be buried somewhere in the EKRE noise and therefore no one else would be interested in it. But we began to ask questions when we had the legal expertise on the draft agreement, which happened so that you lost your government allies and, I hear, your group as well. How are you going to proceed with the migration agreement in the government now? Is there going to be some substantive debate about this, or has the government ever given up approving it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U14	Thank you. So many questions, as you always do, but in any case, you must recognise that you are asking very specifically. Today's government has not been in the habit of giving up. If it's ever been before, today's government has never done it. If you take the basis of this migration framework or, let's say, the starting line, you have to go back to 2016 on 19 September. If I am not mistaken, this framework will be based on a declaration approved in New York on that date and will be based primarily on the UN Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development (Agenda 2030) and the relevant conventions. As far as I know, there was an Estonian representative there at the time, so that's where the topic started. Now the second part of the question. You brought out this train ride. I do not know how many people use public transport and must be recognised by all previous governments, ministers and Riigikogus who have dealt with public transport. Train transport is convenient, I suggest you also travel more carefully by train and maybe not use these fancy cars. The city of Keila is, in any case, important on the Estonian landscape. I don't see why you shouldn't take a train to Keila or why you're here with me. Don't scold me! A political party needs to have some good ideas, and if you're upset about it, I suggest you also increase your party's activity. A broader approach to new ideas, a more dynamic policy, in my opinion, makes sense in any case. You pointed out whether I was afraid of the opening of the EKRE or whether I was counting on it. No, I... Yeah, we'll keep going. We can continue to debate the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U15	A question to be specified, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U16	Yes, Prime Minister, I know where this thing started, but I did not know until the last moment that a text has reached the paper that specialists in international law interpret as promoting migration and not as restricting and tidying migration. I really suggest you take this seriously. The Estonian people are actually afraid that there will be a mass of foreign people coming by train who are not welcome here. This pact opens doors for them. Your own government allies have interpreted it this way, and I hear you're out of your back. My question is about the government's leadership. How do you think you're gonna get over this? Are you actually going to talk about the migration agreement, its effects and its possibilities to interpret it? What happens at a government meeting that has government departments and government members behind you and who isn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U17	Thank you. I have always followed the principle that the government is collegial and that the government is a united team. Today's government has shown this by its behaviour. If you think someone has to be behind you somewhere, I don't think it's the right driving style. However, I wanted to say that it is true that this issue you have raised has received quite a lot of attention in society. For example, you yourself have attacked the President of the Republic with rather vulgar expressions. I think that your party chairman is supporting this migration framework, but you are trying to undermine her underfoot, the right attitude is not very right. In this sense, the Reform Party has very different views, and then understand whether Kaja Kallas is referring to the main features of the Reform Party, or whether it must be based on what the Chairman of the Riigikogu Group of the Reform Party in your form says. I think these are serious questions. But if you ask how the government will solve this question, I'll answer that very simply. We have government briefings. We have agreed that tomorrow afternoon, when the meeting of the cabinet begins, this topic will be under discussion. I'm sure we'll make that decision tomorrow. Speaking of the framework, I think about this intimidation, as if someone were going to drive here awfully now, that we still have to look at the fact that the framework is actually paying particular attention to the protection of vulnerable groups, such as women and children. Point 15 of the Framework deals with the human rights of women, men, girls and boys, so that they are protected throughout the migration process. The focus will be on children's interests and rights. So the issue of intimidation doesn't go anywhere, and as the State Department has said, there is no legal binding here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U18	You can ask more questions in Taavi Clothes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U19	Yeah, I suggest, like Jürgen, start this office meeting early tomorrow and cancel some campaign events. As far as I know, there has been no Prime Minister in Estonia before who would have campaigned so much about working time. Believe me, I'm talking about my own experience when I say that people expect the Prime Minister to lead the country, not a leaflet. That is what is missing at the moment, because the government is clearly in a state of suspension on this issue. The views of the Reform Party are not different in this regard. We have had questions, and we have been amazed at how yet the government cannot shape a normal position on such an important subject. What really bothers us is that the government is stopped, and we would like to see if you can formulate what this government's position is, whether you are in favour or against. By the way, we have not criticised this one way or the other, but we have asked what the government's position is and we have asked the public to be better informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U20	Thank you. First of all, thank you for suggesting that we start early tomorrow. But I will look at tomorrow's agenda and see that we have also asked you, Mr Taavi Rõivas, for a celebration and reception at the Tallinn Teachers' House dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia's government and government institutions. It would be a shame if we didn't see you there or Jürgen Ligi. I hope you're coming. This is also important, especially this continuity. I think it is important to devote attention to the 100th anniversary of our country in 2018. You said that your party had the same views. I'm going to read a couple of quotes and then pick up the position. 'I don't want to hear the president talk about sex with a robot. I want to hear him talk about why he went to Africa to make an agreement that Estonia must start to have a positive attitude towards all kinds of immigration. .. [But] global migration is also a threat to the liberal values of the free world, from freedom of expression and media. ' It was a quote from Mr Jürgen Ligi. The second quote is from Urmas Paet; he is also your party partner who is doing great things in the European Parliament: '[from] the UN migration agreement around panic can create a herdboy effect in society. If society ever really needs to take up a threat, society may be so numb with false alarms and false panic that the real danger is not recognised or taken seriously. ' So take hold of which one of your party's positions is. Don't worry about the government. There are certainly experiences that you share, how to act, good, and ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-ex-work, I believe you too. But the government's decision, as I said, will be at tomorrow's office meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U22	The third topic. The questioner is Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Justice! We will continue, in essence, with the same subject that we did not receive answers to, but heard mutual accusations. Very nice candy in this hall! However, my question is very specific and I hope to have a concrete answer. Within the framework of this migration agreement, the topic on the agenda is how binding this agreement is for the Republic of Estonia. We know that the text of the agreement says that it is not binding on countries. At the same time, if we read it in more detail, we will see that there are a series of points that impose obligations on countries to accept migrants by both, second or third, and so on. There is also a very worrying point which requires countries to implement the instruments of mental control and mind-building, up to coercive measures, i.e. how we say, the introduction of an hate speech law on issues related to migrants and races. How much do you see here the balance between these two positions: forced and voluntary?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U24	Thank you. Yes, I think that this agreement could become binding on the Republic of Estonia through ordinary international law. This was also the reason why in March I considered it necessary to introduce a clear view into the negotiating positions of the government that this agreement must not become part of ordinary international law. Lauri Mälksoo, an academician who has begun the discussion, has pointed out: 'Although the document says that it is 'unlawfully binding', there are several places and aspects that will later be used as normative. René Värk, an associate professor of international law, has also reached a similar position. I've asked the Justice Department to analyze the draft agreement. According to the Ministry of Justice, there is a risk that the agreement will have an impact on ordinary international law. The Agreement combines 23 obligations with those arising from the objectives of the Agreement. According to the Austrian Federal Government, there are 17 specific issues in this agreement that regulate these migration areas in a broader and more far-reaching way than the Austrian laws in force. In addition, it should be pointed out that although the agreement in its formal declaration is not legally binding in its text, the agreement has nevertheless been drawn up in such a way as to provide for both a monitoring and a verification mechanism for the realisation of the obligations under the agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U25	Mart Helme, the point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Can joining this agreement become an additional means of pressure and pretext for legalising the so-called hate speech in Estonia, in other words, establishing a mental control and essentially a monoideological approach to all kinds of political and social issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U27	Yes, according to the text of the agreement, the acceding countries will undoubtedly declare activities aimed, among other things, at taking regulatory steps in the area of hate speech. The Republic of Estonia and I, as Minister of Justice, have so far not considered it necessary to regulate the area of hate speech, precisely on the basis of the criterion of freedom of expression resulting from our constitution. In the case of this agreement, I would like to stress that this agreement may become part of ordinary international law and therefore, if the Republic of Estonia takes the view that it does not join this agreement, it must undoubtedly be declared unambiguously. Now it's about other things. I will give an example of the United Nations Convention on the Reduction of Citizenship. Only four Member States of the European Union have not acceded to this Convention, including Estonia. We have not done so for reasons relating to the security and other interests of our nation state. So in matters concerning the nation state, the Republic of Estonia, as a country that has maintained a conservative migration and citizenship policy so far, is very important to maintain the competence of self-determination. This must be the highest interest in creating or developing possible international obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U28	A further question is asked by Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U29	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to see how, just before the elections, the Sauls have become Paul and the anti-migration has been collaborating. I have a clarification or a supplementary question. We've seen the same risks exactly the same way, but there's another risk that maybe they don't understand. This is the tendency of international courts, as well as Estonian courts, to base such texts on the motivational basis of their judgments. We know that there have been judgments in Estonia that refer not even to international conventions or agreements, but simply to the laws of other countries. I am talking, of course, about the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, but also about immigration. For example, the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights will clearly quote this text of the Treaty. How do we defend ourselves against it? The second question: could this agreement be reached or should this hall be ratified if the Estonian Government decided to join it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U30	Thank you. No, it's not that 'before the election'. When there was a proposal on the table in the previous government in 2016, presented by the then Minister of the Interior that the Republic of Estonia should accede to the bilateral agreement between the United Nations Refugee Agency and the Republic of Estonia in the light of the framework for cooperation between the resettlement of refugees, I did not support it and blocked the conclusion of this agreement. So there's been a lot of practice in these things. As regards whether the judicial authorities, particularly international courts, may apply the rules of ordinary international law, the answer is obviously in the affirmative. It is part of international law. International law differs from national legislation in that international practices and international customs play a very large role. Article 3 of our Constitution also states that the generally accepted rules of international law are an integral part of the Estonian legal system. Just as we have seen the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights grow step by step, through the practice of international courts, as part of ordinary international law, there is a real risk that an additional and regulatory document that organises and regulates the migration of this document, with a very high level of ambition, can become a uniform part of ordinary international law. In the case of ordinary international law, countries have the possibility under international law to lodge a notice of opposition that they do not regard those rules as binding on them. The countries have this opportunity. Today, six Member States of the European Union have said that they will not join this document on the basis of less or more similar motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U31	This issue here today, in this Chamber, is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U32	Krista Aru asks the Minister of State Administration a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, welcome to Question Time for the first time. My question concerns a large region, a very important and important region in Estonia, it is Ida-Virumaa. All governments have developed special action programmes for Ida-Virumaa, made implementation plans, made larger and longer plans for the development of the entire region. There is also a plan of action in place during your period of ministering, and there are a lot of important points. One of the objectives set for this year is that 248 state-paid jobs will be transferred to Ida-Virumaa. Will this goal be fulfilled by the beginning of next year, and will these people live there and participate in life there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Krista Aru! This number of jobs, according to my data, is 232 and as of today 96 have been moved to Ida-Virumaa. That's August data. By the end of the year, I believe, another 30 to 40 jobs will be taken there. The best have been the Police and Border Guard Board, which has taken seven of the planned seven jobs to Jõhvi and the planned 28 jobs to Narva 27, and the unemployment fund, which has taken Jõhvi 17 jobs as planned, and Narva 11 jobs. These are bigger numbers. I think that this problem is absolutely over-emphasised that when jobs are taken out of larger centres of attraction, people start to commute, etc. I've seen in county visits, I've visited 13 counties, that it's a question of getting a return. People are returning home. Saaremaa, where it has been done very well, is a very good example. I believe that the perspective in the context of both Ida-Virumaa and other Estonian counties is that all Estonian county centres must be the centre of attraction, not just Tallinn and Tartu. More than 40% of public sector jobs are located in Tallinn and 23% are located in Tartu, while others are still in the orphan sector. So we're going to continue this program, and I believe that the vast majority of these jobs can be taken out of here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U35	The question of Krista Aru continues. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. We will continue on the same subject. You've also been to Ida-Virumaa, you've visited this area. The right thing is that the creation of state-paid jobs is part of a larger process. What do you estimate for Ida-Virumaa from this side of the road, you've visited it too, this big plan? Where do resources really need to be directed? What is the government's view of the further development of Ida-Viru County, above all through your eyes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U37	Thank you very much. I think that the key issue for the development of all these more problematic regions is how these regions can receive support from important companies, especially if they pollute the environment, as well as financial support. What has been done so far, I think, is insufficient. We should be able to find additional measures that will enable important industrial enterprises to be attracted to these regions. I think this is one very, very important issue, particularly in the context of the Ida-Viru. I don't think it's really important in Ida-Virumaa that they get any special privileges compared to other counties. What is important is that we can ensure balanced development in all those places where there is some kind of backwardness. There is a fallout not only in Ida-Virumaa, but also in Järvamaa, Raplamaa, Viljandi County, Läänemaa, for example. In fact, almost all Estonian counties could be counted. I think that quite a lot has actually been done for Ida-Virumaa, there is still a lot to be done, but the question is that we cannot dismantle balanced development. Something tells us that if there's a problem, you just have to focus on it. No, we need to focus on Estonia as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U38	Andres Herkel will have the right to a further question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have presented you with an inquiry this week to take stock of the administrative reform, insofar as it has met the original objectives. Let's hope your summary comes up neatly. We know you make a lot of visits to the counties, you have an overview of the jobs that the government sector can fill in the regions, but yet you are in this tragic position that you have come as a minister after the great acts, or administrative reform, have been done. I put the question this way: what is your role as minister after the administrative reform, which is your greater objectives and do you also have important achievements?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U40	Thank you very much. I am deeply puzzled by how little is actually known about the Estonian government's leadership outside the government, because even most journalists do not remember what exactly is the title of the Minister of State Administration, about the Minister of Regional Affairs, about the Minister without a portfolio. The Minister of Public Administration is responsible for 740 people, 137 of whom are employed by the Ministry of Finance. They need to be controlled. Speaking of achievements, I think no one should judge their own achievements. It's still up to the others. What have we worked hardest on? I can highlight these areas:, of course, the removal of jobs, the development of public buildings, the resolution of post-administrative reform issues. In my opinion, the word for administrative reform had not quite succeeded in itself. I would call this a reform instead of a renewal of local authorities. When it comes to where we're going, I'm pretty confident that the future is county-centred local authorities. Saaremaa could be a good example here, but this does not mean that the number of local governments is definitely 15. Probably not, there are certainly some exceptions, but this number could still be reduced, which would significantly increase capacity. I think that this ongoing renewal, renewal, is a continuous process that needs to be dealt with in public administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U41	The new issue will be opened by Yoko Alender. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U42	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You are the chairman of the Centre Party, and you are certainly well aware of the circumstances that the Estonian people recently heard through the 'Spectator': the Centre Party sold its office EUR 300000 more expensive than the evaluation report envisaged, and on the same day the central party government established a detailed plan favourable to this businessman. The same Finnish businessman has been associated with the scandal of robbing money from the Finnish Central Party and its youth fund. Do you see the threat of corruption in this whole sequence? Who's supposed to find out what kind of money this useful deal was made with?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U43	Thank you. I think that if there is any threat or manifestation of corruption, it must be investigated immediately. Corruption is certainly very bad at all levels of society, be it public, private or non-governmental. You asked me what the deal was. As far as I know, it's made with private money. It is no secret, I have said this in several interviews, that we used to have bad finances, and the Centre Party also received a conviction in several cases. In order to fulfil these obligations, it was necessary to realise your office and real estate. That's what the Centre Party went to do. I'm sure we've made that assessment. As far as I know, the report said that the value is 2.9 million for both parts. The final result was that, as far as I know, this property was sold at 2.9 million. I hear the private owner who sold it sold it did it at an even higher price. Whether it's materialized or not, I don't know. I know that the city of Tallinn has arranged a public written auction. In my opinion, there can be no more transparent transaction than a public auction in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U44	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U45	The Centre Party received this building from the central party government in 2010, when you were on the board of the Centre Party, without any money. When the court put a mortgage on the office it received free of charge, it also arose, we recall, for 13 years, the city government, led by the Centre Party, wants to sell its part of the house. According to the valuation report, the district of the Central Party was valued at 900000, yet the city promised 1.8 million of the money it received to the party. Speaking of this businessman, the Centre Party continues to rent an office from him. Please explain, don't you really see the threat of corruption in this whole sequence? Are these all coincidences, as Mayor Taavi Aas has said?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U46	Thank you. In my opinion, the Mayor of Tallinn, Taavi Aas, and the Secretary General, Mikhail Korb, on behalf of our party, have given their explanations; they have given them in the course of the same 'Spectator' story. I don't know who one party should rent or rent from. I don't know exactly who you, the Reform Party, are renting your rooms from or whether you have your own rooms from. But if you rent, you rent from the private sector. So did the Centre Party. We were, of course, looking for as good office space as possible, which would be accessible by public transport and would be on the first floor. These were the characteristics we used. I know he went to see a lot of surfaces near downtown and a little further away. I believe that at the office on Narva Road I will tell you, Yoko, honestly, that you are very welcome to visit the office of the Centre Party, there are comfortable rooms. But if you say you can't rent space from the private sector, I don't know who you can from. Should I ask the Reform Party who is allowed to rent office space and who is not allowed to? I am absolutely convinced that the explanations given by Mr Aas and Mr Korb on this issue are sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U47	Andres Herkel, an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I also noticed this "Spectator" clip and this connection between the detailed plan and the purchase, unfortunately, arises. But I'm going to widen the question. There have been many of these things around Tallinn, there was the story and concealment of the audit of Tondiraba Sports Centre, then there were major scandals and problems around Tallinn City Transport AS. One such proposal was also made that in Tallinn there could be people named by analogy with the councils of state companies in order to avoid corruption in the councils of urban companies, on the basis of a proposal from the Nomination Committee. Let's look at these lists. Speaker, As, Klandorf and such names are repeated and repeated. Do you not think that something needs to be done and that the monopoly of one party under the leadership of urban companies in Tallinn should be dissolved in a more transparent way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U49	Thank you. It would be very strange if we were to talk about the progress of the Centre Party in this Question Time, which we have done before, then we, Mr Herkel, should not have this discussion with you. You have always been concerned about the welfare and future of my party, and I am very grateful to you for that. I'm sure it's going to take things forward. Speaking of this detailed plan and purchase, as far as I know, the detailed planning process began much, much earlier, if I am not mistaken, years earlier than the purchasing process. The truth is, plans take a very long time. As far as the exact timing of the planning is concerned or not, as the mayor of Tallinn has said, I think he said it in this 'The Spectator' story, it was a coincidence, and it had nothing to do with any corrupt phenomena. I believe the mayor of Tallinn here. You asked whether there could be a similar order in the councils of urban companies in Tallinn, which is in the country. In the country, I really very much support this idea of the so-called 'nomination committee', and I think that is very right. I hope that the bad things that were related to the Port of Tallinn and other companies will no longer come. As you know, we are currently in the Riigikogu, not on the premises of the Tallinn City Council, which should decide on this issue. If you want to do this, you have to run for it and take your words and your strength there. But the right principle is that the boards of companies must be transparent, they must stand up for the business environment on the one hand, but also take very serious account of the strategic side of the services provided by the municipality's company, be it water, heating or transport services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U50	The next speaker is the Minister of Public Administration, asking for Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U51	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say about the argument made by the Prime Minister of a small line. It's really nice to drive a train, but try to drive a train between Valga, Antsla or Võru, if there hasn't been passenger transport for years, and there's no proper justification why the passenger transport was stopped there and didn't intend to start again. But I have a question for the Minister about peripheralisation. I have not seen a single person in Võrumaa until now, perhaps in the future, who would have approved a change in the living conditions of local residents as a result of the current administrative reform. On the contrary, it's still cursed. You've traveled all the counties now. Disprove my view that marginalisation is significantly greater in places than at the beginning of the previous management period.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U52	Thank you very much, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Not only have I been driving through counties, but I also rode my bike across Southeast Estonia. As a result, I can assure you that there are a lot of people in South-East Estonia who are very happy with their lives, and very many local leaders who have come very strongly with the idea of this restructuring, they are in Setomaa, Võrumaa, Valgamaa. But can we say that these results are final and that everything has settled down? I can't. I think it is necessary to work here for two or three years for everyone, including the State and the Minister for Public Administration, so that we can reach balanced solutions everywhere. People-to-people contradictions are still the ones that have prevented a number of important solutions from being put into practice. But as a result of the administrative reform, I think the biggest victory was that we started to think about how to make people's lives really better, what needs to be done to make people feel comfortable. One important point may be that more needs to be done about these things and the provision of services that benefit people in this particular area. I believe that Southeast Estonia is certainly not a periphery today. When I met the local government leaders in Võrumaa, a leader told me that he had moved in there, that he wanted to buy himself a small farm place in Haanja, but it didn't work, because even the cheapest and worst option cost EUR 150,000. So there's going to be a good one.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U53	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U54	Thank you, Mr President. There was a little talk here today about moving out of town, but at the same time we read almost every week or at least every month how many thousand people have come to Tallinn again. So it's a little pokazukha-like the topic of moving out of town. At the same time, we continue to have a tendency to move away from the counties and to continue moving from the periphery to Tallinn, still towards Tartu, even across the puddle. Is the government capable of doing something or of slowing this down so that we can still have life in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U55	Thank you. I'm sure life will be left in the country. I don't think the government can stop anyone from moving to Tallinn who wants to move. The government's task is to use the possibilities in the hands of the state, one of them is to remove state agencies from the capital to preserve local life. People really do have that interest. It's not like people don't want to go back home. They really do when there are jobs. But while people want to live in Finland or work there, for example, even for a while, there is no way that the government can prevent this. About 100000 Estonians are currently working and living in Finland. It's a huge problem. Is there any way we can fight this at government level? Well, I can't really. Our main opportunity to promote local life and development is still jobs, regional policy, regional support, infrastructure development. We know that Estonia's biggest problem, which exists in all the counties where I have been, is not saying that it is the biggest problem everywhere, but it exists in all the counties, it is still a gravel road. That's question number one. There are 49% of them in Valgamaa, more than 45% in Võru County and Põlva County. We must be able to create an environment for people with the tools we have. But these tools are, unfortunately, limited, and that is what prevents us from creating a beautiful life. But I want to stress that the living environment outside Tallinn and Tartu is significantly better, the quality of life is better and very many people appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U56	Andres Herkel, a prominently quick enroller, has the right to submit an additional question on this subject. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to rephrase the original question a little so that it is as specific as possible. Are you ready to give us some concrete examples of how the impact of administrative reform has been reduced marginalisation? It has also been mentioned here that the emergence of such strangely shaped municipalities has been a problem, and maybe they're talking about the next step to take the municipality to the county level in the first place, but how much has this been the government talking about? Is it actually being prepared, or are there other options for correcting administrative reform errors on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U58	Thank you very much. I will give a concrete example of the Setomaa municipality, which I visited recently and which has been very successful in maintaining and transferring its identity. There are also similar examples, of course, but since you asked for one particular example, this is it. With regard to the so-called 'ruralisation' of local authorities, or increasing to it, of course, this means a major economic motivation once again. The current administrative reform has cost €65 million. I've asked 200 local leaders in several auditoriums what the main motivation was. The main answer was money. I think that the next stage must definitely be motivated by the state. Exactly how to do this is the question of the next government and the next Riigikogu, I think. But I believe this number has to go down.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U59	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U60	Next thing. Olga Ivanova, please! Reply to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In October 2015, the Riigikogu Friendship Group visited the State Duma, where the ratification of the Estonian and Russian border treaty was discussed, and in November of the same year 108 successfully passed the first reading. Two amendments to the draft were then tabled. I recall that two readings are needed in the Estonian Riigikogu for ratification, one reading in the Russian State Duma. My question is simple. Why was the draft ratification of the border treaty put in the Commission's drawer, and does this mean that the government led by the Central Party does not wish to complete ratification?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U62	Thank you. I support the completion of the ratification of the border agreements between Estonia and Russia. The border agreements were signed by both Estonia and Russia in 2014 and a clear desire was expressed to resolve the issue, to regulate it. While the border agreements between Estonia and Russia and the sea areas in the Gulf of Narva and Finland were signed in Moscow on 18 February 2014, Estonia and Russia agreed when signing the agreements that the ratification procedure would take place in parallel in the parliaments. The desire to move forward with the ratification process must always be on both sides. After all, Estonia has shown its will; it has shown it by saying that the first reading was completed in the ratification process. This was done in the Riigikogu on 25 November 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U63	Olga Ivanova, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U64	Thank you. I'll come back to what I said. Indeed, two readings are needed for ratification in our Parliament, and it is possible to make amendments between the first and second readings, as did Igor Gräzin and the EKRE Group. Both proposals significantly change the wording of the text of the agreed agreement. As we remember, there has already been a precedent: the Estonian Parliament changed the preamble, which gave the Russian State Duma the right not to complete ratification. As the Prime Minister supports ratification, the question is whether we will still have the hope of doing this ratification before the end of our composition's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U65	Thank you. I always follow the principle of separation of powers, which I think is important when we talk about legislative and executive powers. As I said, this agreement between the two countries at the time was that the ratification procedure would take place in parallel in the parliaments. My sense of feeling has always been that the Estonian Riigikogu is ready to move forward, he showed his clear will on 25 November 2015, when this draft passed the first reading in the Riigikogu. If the question is whether there is hope that there will be a second reading and ratification during this, XIII, then, as I said, the will to move forward must be on both sides.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U66	A further question can be asked by Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Two quick short questions, as time is about to come to an end. First, why do you stress the need for ratification of the border treaty, when you know very well that there is an international treaty from 2 February 1920 which delineates very specifically the border between Estonia and Russia, which is the foundation of our country, as well as the Constitution? Then why don't you respect this treaty so much? The second question is: do you, as Prime Minister, consider it appropriate to conclude agreements with a country that is occupying the areas of its neighbouring countries and continues to carry out military activities in Ukraine? Therefore, are you seriously telling the Riigikogu that the agreements with such a country are reliable, maintained and based on bilaterally good relations and do not come to us sadly?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U68	Thank you. Certainly, concluding a border agreement does not mean withdrawing from the Tartu Peace Treaty as a fundamental document of Estonia's statehood. I will answer you in the same way I answered Olga Ivanova. I support the completion of the ratification of the border agreements between Estonia and Russia. I think that this is certainly a broader issue; it is also a question of the external borders of the European Union and NATO. You have highlighted important nuances about Ukraine and certainly Georgia. There's no way you can close your eyes in front of them. This Estonia has not done and certainly will not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U69	Thank you very much to the ministers and Prime Minister. Thanks to the questioners! Unfortunately, one hour is shorter than the questioners want to ask questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U70	Honourable Riigikogu! The Wednesday session will begin with the referral of drafts and enquiries. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U71	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party Group will bring before you a draft decision on the change of composition in order to resolve the population crisis in the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee. In short, the essence of this is that we are offering Jüri Adams as a committee member instead of a member of the group who has left. We hope that his life experience will have a positive impact on this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U72	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U73	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 18 members of the Riigikogu, I will hand over the draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection and the Nature Conservation Act, which we wish to ban the holding of fur farms in Estonia with a five-year transitional period from 1 June 2024. The draft is based on ethical considerations. Why are we turning it in again? A similar draft was pending a year and a half ago. There have been developments in the world, and several countries have one after the other abandoned fur farms. In our neighbouring countries, a similar bill was last handed over by Lithuania, and even the Czech Republic bans fur farms within two years. And so much so that the bill doesn't concern those animals that are raised for meat and whose skins are also used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U74	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts, one of which is a draft decision, and we process them as usual in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check. 77 delegates will take part in the meeting. May I have your attention, please? On today's 11th item, which is the first reading of the Act on Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Rights, on Administrative Cooperation and on the Amendment of the Law on State Fees, the President of the Rural Commission Aivar Kokk will make a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U75	Today's first item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. Would the political groups like to negotiate? That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 649. Let's go to the preparations for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the best jokes usually come from life itself. When the President of the sitting suggested that the hall be a little quieter, a colleague said: 'The President of the sitting, be quieter yourself. ' I am voting on the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, 649. Please take a stand and vote. 74 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no respondents or abstentions. The draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, 649 has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U76	Third reading of the draft law amending the Rail Act, the Air Protection Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Would the political groups like to negotiate? That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 670. I'll give you a hall call. Is the hall ready to vote? [[???Saalist kostub: 'Jaa!'???]] I am voting on the draft law amending the Rail Act, the Air Protection Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 670. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members voted in favour and 5 were against, with no abstentions. Draft Act 670 on the amendment of the Rail Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on the Protection of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the Air of the State Tax Act has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U77	Third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 674. The political groups wish to negotiate. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U78	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Its membership will soon be completed in four years. By then, we'll probably have laws on the table starting with 8 or 800. In a good case, you'll remember a few dozen things your commission has dealt with or you've dealt with yourself. And years from now, you'll remember one, two or three. I will certainly remember the draft that we are about to vote on. It is not that it regulates the taxation of vouchers and digital services. It's about the philological problem that we ran into here, that's right there in this "unwide reputation," that no one could define. At the same time, we were offered to legitimise it in specific laws. This must be the first time we've managed to get rid of it. So I'm sure I'll remember that. The language of the law must be understood. It must be such that each provision can be defined or clarified with specific provisions. So I'd like to put one on the next. As it turned out, there are 24 other laws among the Estonian laws, which use this "unblemished reputation," which cannot be explained in any way. They could be destroyed over the next few years. But right now, of course, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, I am saying that this is a good law and we support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U79	There are no more requests to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 674. Since we're in the voting zone, I'll give you a little less than 1.5 to 2 minutes. I am voting on the draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 674. Please take a stand and vote. 63 votes in favour and 5 against, with no abstentions. Draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 674 has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U80	Fourth item: Third reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2018 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Before the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs gets the floor for the presentation, very briefly about how it will be handled. The third reading of the draft law amending the State Budget Act is as follows: the presentation by the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of up to 20 minutes, up to two oral questions for the rapporteur, negotiations involving representatives of the political groups, and then the final vote. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U81	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Above all, the debts. At last reading, i.e. second reading, three questions were put, two of which were about the work of other committees, the Economic Commission and the Social Committee, and one was about an issue that we did not really discuss in the Commission. Aivar Sõerd's question related to the reserve, the question of Aivar Koka with the SKAIS and the question of Peeter Ernsta with the support of those released from the prison. Here's what I propose. These answers are all there, but they're pretty thorough. As far as I know, you've received these letters too. But if you want them to sound in this hall, let me know when I finish the main report, I'll read them. With regard to preparing for the third reading, we had this topic in the Commission on 6 November. We had two amendments to discuss. One, together with the Ministry of Finance, is an amendment consisting of 29 minor amendments, and the other is about the time of entry into force. Given that this is the budget for this year and these activities need to be financed as quickly as possible, we offer that this law can be enforced on the day following publication in the Official Journal of the State. The debate in the Commission was quite brief, with three issues of interest. Firstly, on point 20 of the first amendment, it was asked why e-residency would be reduced. It was replied that this was the specification of the budget for activities in 2018, i.e. it became planned a little more than necessary. There was also a question of receiving a programme service, a social rehabilitation service. The answer was that the programme services would not be reduced, that the services would be organised. And then there was another question about the 26th point concerning the amount allocated to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications a few years ago for the development of an uninterrupted communication service. In response, the representative of the government listed in advance nine objectives for which this money has been used. After that, it was decided to give the Bureau a consensus that the third reading of the draft could be carried out today, 14 November, and put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U82	Any questions for the waitress? Yes, it is. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Indeed, there are many changes to the draft law amending the State Budget Act this year, but what can not be found there is still a topic that cannot be overcome or converted by the collection of alcohol excise duties. The prognosis is that EUR 105 million of alcohol duty is not collected. The funding of cultural capital is known to be linked to this. Why has this additional budget, this draft amending budget, not taken any steps to smooth this decline and to justify the expectations of cultural people in any way? You're a little writer yourself, that should be close to your heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U84	Thank you. I guess a little bit of a writer means I'm writing for the little ones. We have not discussed this issue in connection with this draft, but we have spoken about it in the committee in the context of another question. I don't remember exactly what the question was right now. We were talking about the fact that there is no special desire to correct it, because December is always an extraordinary month. In December it will be a big holiday: Christmas and preparation for the new year. During the various years, alcohol is procured very differently in December and more than in other months. Secondly, it is sometimes also linked to stock accounting. I'm not a specialist in alcohol sales, but I think that's convincing enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U85	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U86	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! I am not specifically asking about the provisions of this draft. I have a more general question, which certainly concerns this year's budget and its amendment. Just today, the Ministry of Finance came in with the latest information on tax revenue and the state of the budget. The revenue from the tax is quite good: VAT is slightly more modest, but social tax and income tax are above 9.5%. But if I look at the balance and the overall situation, there is still a small deficit here at the end of September. The majority of this deficit is provided by the central government and the local authorities balance it slightly. Unlike last year, when we had both structural and nominal deficits, this year had to come with a large surplus, everything was supposed to be great. Is it still as rosy as looking at this last income and balance situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U87	Thank you, Mr Aivar. It's a good thing you're gonna find out about the news in this hall when another prognosis has come up. I have to admit, after last night's trial, I had last night, and today's first half practically took it. I'm being told what letters I should have in my mailbox. I just haven't been able to look at them. What can I say about tax receipts? We need to be guided by the forecasts that are constantly being changed and, after all, we will get this concrete result. I just don't see anything else going on. But whether it is positive or negative, we are talking in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U88	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U89	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Research and development investments are one of the concerns of the Estonian state. I wonder whether any changes have been made to the 2018 budget for R &amp; D and innovation with this additional budget. And if so, how many per cent of gross domestic product is R &amp; D in 2018?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U90	For the second time, thank you for having such a good opinion of me. I am a Commission waitress, I am not engaged in continuous analysis of how many percent of innovation activities are contained in one document or another. I know that if innovation activities are to be taken on a large scale, i.e. ICT programmes and what is involved in modernising the provision of one service or another, there are certainly instruments to do so. But such a goal is to calculate with a percentage precision how much of GDP it is
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U91	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. I have a very specific question. This budget also provides for EUR 800000 for traffic cameras. At the beginning of this week, the Committee on Legal Affairs launched a draft on mobile traffic cameras. Where did the money come from? How exactly do you know the details?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U93	Thank you. They can't be two things that are connected for one particular reason. However, the amounts that are currently being transferred from one line to another must have been spent this year. The adoption of the law on these cameras, which you are talking about, of this bill, I have heard, we have all heard about it, it will take two months at best. And that means that in a good way, it will somehow get into next year's budget, but with some kind of change. So specifically, this amount and these mobile cameras, or what do they call it? .1 is not related.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U94	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U95	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I will come back to my previous question, and I will clarify it for the sake of clarity. I asked you, as a representative of the Commission, whether any changes were made to the budget as regards R &amp; D and innovation activities. Did any changes come up in the Commission's debate on this subject or not? And if that was the case, what is the new R &amp; D reading as a percentage of gross domestic product? Did you discuss that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U96	Thank you. The direct question was whether you discussed this in the framework of this draft. No, I didn't. As far as research is concerned, there is, to a certain extent, a third issue related to it, which sounded in the Commission. The question relates to the amount allocated to the development of an uninterrupted communication service, and there are several technological links that needed to be filled with money in their time. They specifically asked how this money was used. That's what we were talking about. That was the only subject that we discussed in this item on the agenda at the meeting of the Commission on 6 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U97	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them. Both have been submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the decision has been taken to take full account, however. The first amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Another amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Decision of the Governing Commission: take full account. The amendments to draft law 695 have been examined. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. We'll do it in a minute. I am voting on the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2018 initiated by the Government of the Republic, 695. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 49), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 12 votes to none, with 12 abstentions. Draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2018 initiated by the Government of the Republic, 695 has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U98	Second reading of the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws 699. Mr Kersti Sarapuu, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On Tuesday, 6 November, there was a debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on preparations for second reading. Heidi Vessel, chief specialist at the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Kadri Klaos, analyst at the Fiscal Policy Department, and Rein Vaks, expert at the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. A little background. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 26 September 2018 and was also adopted on 26 September 2018. The first meeting of the committee took place on 27 September and on 9 October there was a first reading in the Riigikogu, which was continued on 10 October. And for the second time, before the second reading, the draft was on the Commission on 6 November. A reminder of the substance of the bill. The aim of the draft is to increase the international competitiveness of Estonian companies with intensive gas consumption, allowing them to consume natural gas at a preferential excise duty rate of 11.30 euros per 1000 cubic metres. The standard rate is EUR 63.31 per 1000 cubic metres. In order to obtain a preferential excise duty rate, the company's energy management system must be proven to be effective and comply with ISO 50001 and its gas costs must represent at least 13% of the added value. The advantage does not apply to the district heating sector, which consumes most of natural gas and is not an exporting sector but has a significant budgetary impact. The advantage concerns 10 to 15 companies in the first years and the impact of the measure on excise duty receipts amounts to EUR 1,2 million per year. The draft removes the increase in excise duties on alcohol planned for 2019 and 2020. The draft also specifies the grounds for exempting biomethane from excise duty. The exemption from excise duty shall be based on the indication of the origin of biomethane, certifying the bio-origin of the gases. Some more technical changes will be made. One amendment was received from the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments, 23 October. The Commission received three submissions from interested parties and two letters from the Ministry. Following the completion of the first reading of the draft, including on 10 October, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft on 6 November. At the meeting of the Commission, the amendment tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group (list No 2) was discussed, the content of which is to reduce the relative consumption rate of the company's gas consumption intensity proposed in the draft to 7% instead of 13%. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance did not support the proposal for the following reasons. The Government's decision and proposal are based on a rate of 13%, as extending the range of beneficiaries would have an impact on the state budget of 2019 in the form of revenue foregone. A change in the rate would also require the exchange of information with the European Commission on the treatment of the advantage as State aid, and this would take time. To date, the European Commission's position is known only on the higher rate laid down in the draft, where the advantage is considered to be a minimum barrier in the context of State aid and not as State aid. At the same time, businesses are expecting a discount at the beginning of next year. It was added that drawing the line is always a difficult and decision-making place. In the opinion of the Ministry, a subsequent return to the question cannot be ruled out in order to analyse whether a reduction in intensity would be justified in the future. The Commission rejected the amendment. As it received less than two votes in favour in the Commission, it is not to be voted in plenary. An analogous proposal was made by the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Their common proposal was to set the "co-intensity criterion" at a maximum of 5%. They estimate that the proposed gas consumption intensity level of 13% is too high and does not allow large natural gas customers to actually qualify for a more favourable rate of excise duty. In view of the above arguments, the Commission did not amend the draft accordingly. The Estonian Small Brewers' Association also approached the Commission, whose proposal related to the extension of the excise benefit to small brewers. More specifically, it was proposed to increase the existing excise duty on beer, which is 50% of the normal rate, from 6000 hectolitres of beer production to 15000 hectolitres of beer, or to set the rate of excise duty (50% to 0%) depending on the volume of production (zero litres to 5 million litres). It can be explained that the current regulation provides as follows: if beer was produced in the previous calendar year up to 6000 hectolitres, the excise duty rate for beer in the current year shall be 50% of the standard rate. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the main question is what volume of beer production should be considered as small production in Estonia. In the past, the ceiling for the benefit was 3000 hectolitres, which was raised to 6000 hectolitres as a result of the turnaround of the stakeholders. We have 37 small brewers. The number and production volumes of companies in the sector are increasing, but this year the production volumes of companies do not exceed the thresholds for the benefit. Since the advantage is based on last year's production, there is no need to make any changes before the analysis is completed. The Ministry of Finance is conducting a situation analysis and the analysis will be completed by the end of this year. The debate also looked at the differences between small producers of beer and cider in relation to EU regulation and future amendments to directives. They asked why the maximum volume established in the European Union is not the basis for defining small producers of beer in Estonia. The answer was that, within 20 million litres, each Member State can decide for itself who is a small producer. Estonia is a small country with a total beer market of 120 million litres, quantities cannot be compared to the large European countries. A question was asked about the debate on the benefit of small cider producers in the European Union. It was said that the design of the draft directive mentioned that the definition of a small cider producer could be based on 1.5 million litres. For most Member States, this seems appropriate. The Commission did not amend the draft as a result of the proposal of the Estonian Association of Small Brewers. The Ministry of the Environment also referred to the Commission with a proposal to include an amendment to the draft, according to which up to 30% of tyre chips would be permitted as input into oil shale oil production. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained to the Commission that, according to the current Excise Act, oil shale fuel oil is a product produced entirely from oil shale. If the definition of oil shale fuel oil was not changed, the product produced from oil shale and tire chips would fall under the definition of heavy fuel oil and would not be subject to any differences for the production of oil shale fuel oil. The distinction is between collateral and observable measurement. The difference in excise duty is relatively small for these products. For example, one large producer, Eesti Energia, has a valid guarantee and the Tax and Customs Board, when adding tire chips, is not expected to increase or significantly increase this guarantee when assessing the risks. The manufacturer should also have the capacity to monitor the measurement capacity so that, in the current situation, there should be no significant obstacles to adding tyre chippings without amending the law. The representative of the Ministry of Finance added that this amendment to the Excise Act would require a more in-depth analysis and did not support the amendment. The Commission's debate expressed the opinion that the proposed proposal is not an example of good legislative practice and also concerns the organisation of government work. The opinion was expressed that, due to differences of opinion between ministries, the proposal is not mature and it is now early for the Commission to decide on this. It was also considered that the question could not only concern one large producer but also other companies. They should all be involved in the preparation of the change, and only then should they come here in the prescribed format with an initiative. The consultation also expressed the view that the possibility of using other comparable substances and waste as input for production should be looked at more widely alongside tyres. The Commission did not support the amendment proposed by the Ministry of the Environment in its letter. There were 0 and 7 members in favour of the amendment (Aivar Sõerd, Erki Savisaar, Inara Luigas, Jürgen Ligi, Martin Helme, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Taavi Rõivas) and 3 abstentions (Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Meri, Priit Sibul). The Commission made two consensual changes to the draft. On the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the procedures for the completion of documents for the refueling of armed forces aircraft shall be specified. Amendment 1 brings together more technical amendments prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. Further explanations of the amendments are given in the list of amendments. The consensual proposals of the Steering Committee are to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is closed, to place the draft on the plenary agenda for the third reading by 21 November 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U100	There are questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U101	Good manager! Good waitress! When it comes to excise duties on gas and this bill, first of all, I would like to say that this is a very good draft. But did you also have a debate in the Commission on the fact that last April the price of gas increased by 11% and this September by 10%? After all, much more excise revenue is collected into the state budget. When it was discussed that the excise duty rate for large companies should be reduced, was it not during the debate that the increase in gas prices could lead to a reduction in excise duty rates for all final consumers? Ultimately, no less money would have been paid into the budget, given how much the price of gas has risen.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U102	At least this and the previous Commission meeting did not address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U103	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U104	Thank you. Good waitress! It's very good that there's some kind of reversal of excise duties going on right now, but tell me how much you raised when you came into power with gas or beer excise. What kind of problem are we solving right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U105	In fact, when we came to power, you did not increase the excise duty on gas. The Reform Party raised it already in 2014. So the main part of this increase in excise duties started anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U106	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U107	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! I have to tell you right away that you misinformed us. It was the current power union that opened proceedings at the end of 2016 for major tax changes, with which you increased the gas excise duty. This coalition raised it considerably and immediately in several years by a large percentage. But I'm asking you that you promised, i.e. the current power union, to get the economy going, but instead you started the price increases. We have the highest price growth in the euro area. From yesterday's news, we heard that gas prices have risen by 40%, not to mention the rise in food and other forms of energy. Does that even concern you? The price increases that have hit our people are largely due to tax increases. And if it worries you, does the power alliance intend to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U108	Thank you, dear Aivar. What I want to say is that I remember very well how this increase in excise duties started with the decisions of 2014 and in 2015 all excise duties started to rise. I can really say with peace of mind that in 2016 and 2017 excise duties on diesel were not lifted precisely because of the fact that fuel prices remained competitive. If you would like to be more specific, since 2004 excise duties on gas have been raised every year and, for the last time, this decision was indeed made in 2016: the proposal was to increase excise duties on gas by 25% for three consecutive years. And now, if we go back to the subject of excise duties, I will say yes, this increase in excise duties has caused this border trade to a significant extent, but I also think that very many price increases have come from increasing retail prices. After all, merchants themselves have done a great deal of price increases themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U109	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. You yourself have just mentioned the increase in border trade, and here, in the case of one of the amendments, the very clear objective is to stop this increase in border trade. Did the Commission discuss this issue precisely in the context of what more needs to be done to stop border trade? It is only from this measure that the abolition of the increase in excise duties is not enough to improve the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U111	These issues were not specifically mentioned in the Commission. It is clear, however, that there will not be much reduction in border trade in the coming years. It's become like a fashion thing. Everyone wants to go to the same liquor stores once in a while. Of course, it is also in the south that the goods are different in themselves and cheaper in our neighbours, because their income levels are considerably lower than those in our republic. So I think that it is certainly not possible to manage this border trade to the extent that you would like and as we all would like.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U112	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U113	Mr Kersti Sarapuu, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. One of the spokespersons for this increase in alcohol duty rates was Jevgeni Ossinovski, your coalition partner. And one of his reasons for raising it so badly was that people drink less alcohol. Today, news slipped out from the public that alcohol consumption has, however, moved towards growth. I ask you whether, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, when you decided to cancel these increases in the rate of excise duty, you also touched on this issue from the point of view of its social impact. Does this in any way reduce alcohol consumption? Did you get a chance to look at this from this point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U114	Thank you, dear Urve. This, of course, was not really considered in the Commission from this point of view. But I just read in the press yesterday and the day before yesterday that alcohol consumption has decreased. So I don't know who else to believe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U115	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U116	Good manager and good waitress! The Ministry of the Environment has proposed that a third should be added to the production of oil shale oil. And your committee said that this proposal would go into the trash. I ask if the Ministry of the Environment does not know that this is not the way to do it, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs knows better. Explain why this is a bad idea. Besides, there's a lot of tires and tires, and yes, we're having trouble using them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U117	Thank you, dear Peter. We were very well informed that no changes would be initiated in this way, a study should be carried out. And it can't be ruled out that it's going to work once and for all. I read here that the proposal really was such that it would be possible to use up to 30% of the tyre chips in the production of oil shale fuel oil, but then the concept of oil shale fuel oil should actually be changed. At present, oil shale fuel oil has specific characteristics and is distinguished by collateral and observable measurement. It makes no sense for us to make this procedure so long. At the moment, all our producers are waiting for this very same bill to be introduced as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U118	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U119	Thank you, good waitress. Please be honest for a second! I asked you how much you raised the excises that you're not doing in pieces right now, like you're not moving on or lowering it a little bit. On gas, I think we got the answer, 25 plus 25 plus 25, and now you're heroically returning 1 million consumers. Indeed, everyone has increased the excise duty, and I also raised 5%. Please tell me how much you raised the beer excise in 2016, because then you raised the most.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U120	Thank you, Jurgen! I can't answer that question right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U121	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Yes, to investigate, investigate, investigate, while Estonia is full of tires. They're lying under the woods, everywhere. So we are looking at how it would be nice to legislate, and we are not dealing with the problem as soon as possible. Did no one in the Commission really think that this problem needed to be eradicated in Estonia? Those tires are all over the place. Now it would be a good chance to use them, but we're still looking into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U123	Thank you. In making a draft law, however, preparation is still needed to create every major new provision. The introduction of these tyres as raw materials would mean quite a change. It also discusses this issue so that alternative means can also be used in the composition of fuel oil. So I guess everything needs time and thinking. But, of course, it was thought that they wanted to find some sort of solution for the use of tyres.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U124	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U125	Good manager and waitress! As we know, a good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, wants to become a member of the Union of Writers. I ask you if you would recommend him to the Estonian Writers' Union if he has created such sentences. 'For example, one large producer has a valid guarantee and the Tax and Customs Board, when adding tyre chippings, is not expected to increase or significantly increase this guarantee when assessing the risks, nor should it currently have the ability to measure the tyre chippings to be monitored, and should therefore, in the current situation, have no significant obstacles to adding tyre chippings without amending the law. ' That makes six lines, and I'm not going to read the following sentences. Would you recommend Mr Stalnukhin to the Estonian Writers' Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U126	Thank you, Peter! Since I'm not a writer and maybe not the best wordsmith, I don't know what to say about it. His children's books are very, very nice and very popular, all people like. I can also say that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs often fights to make the wording of the text simple, understandable and understandable to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U127	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U128	Thank you. Mr Kersti, honourable Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In the meantime, it seems that the Reform Party thinks that the tax system of the entire Estonian state will only stand up because of excise duties. And they are very concerned that people have visited Latvia and bought alcohol from it, which leaves a big hole in our budget, etc. People still have the right to go shopping where they want to buy them. But has the Committee on Monetary Affairs also paid attention to the fact that alcohol is actually brought from it in quantities that are not allowed to individuals? It is delivered from there in bulk and sold in Estonia. Have you also called the IRS to report, asking why the IRS doesn't do anything about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U129	Thank you, Inara! These observations are really very, very correct. When we've been to Valga and Viljandi, quite bordering municipalities to meet people, they've said that we don't even have the courage to speak loudly, that we're going across the border to buy food or something else. First of all, these stores are just closer to them, and second of all, maybe the goods are different. However, as far as alcohol is concerned, we have even talked about this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The IRS has very nicely said that if they make a thigh, they will immediately understand who is carrying more alcohol from these border shops to sell alcohol. You can see that: the car's lights are much higher because the trunks are full of goods. So that's the kind of thighs they make. And I'm sure a lot of people go there to sell alcohol more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U130	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress, you are mostly very specific and frank. Do you have the courage to admit that, in fact, the excise duty and excise duty policies of the Estonian state have clearly failed? Of course, all political parties have contributed to it, but the contribution of today's coalition cannot be underestimated. You've invested the most in it. If I am not mistaken, this amount is 216 million, which is actually minus the Estonian Treasury. And the goal of reducing alcohol consumption has also not been achieved. There is no explanation to justify that this policy has been successful. I think the first thing to do is admit it so you can make a correction. Do you agree that alcohol excise and fuel excise policies have failed, failed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U132	Thank you, Thomas! I wouldn't be so specific, of course. But what I'm saying is that I don't know any people in Estonia who like excise increases. After all, price increases are often associated with the same increases in excise duty, which are not, at times, the greatest increases in nature. I think that even if we were to bring down all these excise duties now, the retail trade would still find a way not to lower these prices by that, they would rather raise them. I generally feel the same way that this excise policy doesn't... After all, we ourselves fought against this when you wished to increase all these excise duties in 2014 and 2015. This has been such an inevitable step forward. But I think everything's gonna work out, and everything's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U133	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I want to confirm that although I have published 18 books in my life, I do not consider myself a writer, and I do not aspire to be a member of the Writers' Union. It's just Ernitsa's answer. Sometimes I really think he's talking about something he doesn't understand or know anything about. But I now have a specific and factual question. He read a sentence here that was supposed to be six rows long. Do you understand what I have to do with that sentence? Does he really think I put it on paper like that? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U135	Thank you, Mikhail! Knowing you, knowing you and seeing you on committees: you are not the author of this sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U136	Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U137	I ask everyone to understand how it really is: where did he take this sentence?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U138	I think he wants to be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U139	Thank you very much for the waitress. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in the negotiating phase. These recent lines are rather part of the negotiation phase. If you have a procedural question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U140	Yeah. This is where my name was called, and they said I didn't understand. When Mr Stalnukhin asks where I read it, the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs should read the explanatory statement. And I didn't read the sweetest lines yet. To tell you the truth, it's completely...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U141	Good colleague! This was a classic example of what should not be a procedural question. I repeat once again: we have heard the rapporteur now and we will leave these lines in the negotiating round, because at second reading it will be possible for everyone to speak. Mikhail Stalnukhin, if there is a strictly procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U142	Thank you. Above all, I must explain that the draft law proposed by the Government of the Republic is usually prepared in our case at the Ministry of Finance. That means the explanatory statement will also be written there at the Ministry of Finance. Those people who write such sentences have a very good Estonian language, so you can imagine if they already work there, and they are certainly not members of the Writers' Association. I ask whether the procedure allows a colleague to be made aware of how laws are being prepared, including the simple fact that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs or of any other committee has nothing to do with this explanatory memorandum coming from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U143	This was partly a procedural explanation and partly a procedural question. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there are advisers in both political groups and committees who will certainly make matters clear to you when there are questions. Now, let's get to the negotiating round. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U144	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, It's like a good bill, but let's think about what we're really doing here, what problems we're solving. We have largely raised these problems ourselves. The previous speaker did not really want to talk about it, he was speaking English, but it is, in fact, very embarrassing to discuss the suspension of excise increases. And it's very embarrassing to talk about a 1-million-dollar gas concession. The reality is that tax policy changed very sharply in December 2016 and was also financed by increased excise duties. For example, beer excise duty is 2.2 times higher than it was before. With great effort, we received from the waitress the information that has been decided to do with the increase of 25 + 25 + 25% in gas excise duty, which is still very severe. It's been dropped, as usual, but you raised it too. Yeah, 5% of the merchandise was an increase of 10%. In 2015, at the time of Sester, these percentages came up, but for many years the excise duty did not increase at all. We justified the increase in gas excise duty on security grounds. At that time, the captive market and the clear security threat were very small, while the impact on price was very small. Now we see more than 70%, more than 80% of the increase in excise duty, which was decided in one bang and which we are going to lower a bit for some consumers. The idea of excise policy should be to limit consumption and not to give an advantage to those who consume more. Of course, the excise duty rate must also be optimal. With regard to optimism, it just got out of hand with the 2016 decisions. It's been said that border trade was before. We couldn't talk about that anymore. I now owe a unit because I couldn't read it out of a small letter, but the size of the border trade is 0.8 in 2015 for beer and 5. That was when Sester was already in office. This year it is planned to grow to 30. If such a six-fold increase, given that Sester was still in office during the previous government, is not a sharp deterioration, what is it? It has been said that the increase in excise duty began earlier. During this period, the figure related to border trade has almost doubled in terms of vodka from 2 to 3.5. And in the case of wine, it has risen from 0.7 to 5. It's pretty awesome! We have also lost at the northern border, where sales have fallen three times. We have proposed to correct excise duties. We could negotiate what these correct rates are. For example, according to a fresh estimate, it is possible that excise duty may not need to be reversed in full or in all drinks to get back both the northern and southern borders. So how do we get them back? The price difference with Latvia should be as follows: EUR 1 for a bottle of vodka and EUR 2 for a bag of beer. This is already the difference that makes border trade largely meaningless. KPMG carried out this study. And the possible win-win of such a move is estimated to be over 100 million. This victory would certainly be added to the cost of fuel and other goods. This step would be important for the economy. This would also be important in terms of reducing drinking and, of course, also for business. So we could deal with things like this. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U145	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U146	Speaking of forecast figures, we recall that EUR 341 million of alcohol excise duties were planned for the state budget this year. And now, after the reductions, the price of which is about 30 million, I've added up here, it's only 230 million. In short, this year there will certainly be less excise duty than before this victorious government. At the same time, the rate of excise duty on beer is 2.2 times higher. So you have been very effective in getting the Estonian state drunk in such a way that Latvians become rich and Finns no longer come here. The situation of tourism, of course, is quite painful. The latest news says that in September, the Finns came back to town again by 10%. And if anyone brags that we are two-faced here, consider that we have covered about 5% of the Finnish market. The Finns have gotten themselves drunk without our help. But the current situation is where virtually 0.4 cans of beer bought from Estonia are purchased from Latvia. It's another head-to-head calculation, but in general, the order of magnitude is in place. And as a result, the average price of beer has fallen and the decrease in drinking has turned into a small increase. The tourism sector is likely to be the biggest bang now, not because we have drunks, and not because we have watered Finns significantly, but because this overall increase in prices on this market is a major reputational damage. That's the one thing that's been bought along. This is one of the goods that has been consumed locally. And it is not replaced by an Asian tourist, who practically consumes nothing but eats his macaroni in warm water. That's right. This is a significant difference between the two tourist regions. An Asian tourist here does not actually buy, even though he goes to the tourist companies that talk about it. A Finnish tourist bought it. The Asian tourist is very less demanding and very economical. So congratulations, government, like you're stopping something, but in fact, destruction continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U147	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U148	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Jürgen's story was really nice and I could go on from here, but I'm not gonna do it. This bill is relatively innocent, compared to the cluster bill and when the crazy, full border trade in the south was opened and the state budget was seriously pranked, to put it in rural language. I'm not going to read those millions. And it's all just a question of comparison. I wasn't planning on coming here, but I read that explanatory statement that I may have used here in violation of the rules of procedure. I want to talk about it, however, because it is a much more general issue. I have tried not all, but almost all of the drafts that have been submitted to us to understand what is going on. And not always, but very often I get the question of whether I'm stupid, don't I get it? I've been educated, reading a lot, etc., but reading these explanatory notes and not just talking about the explanatory memorandum to this bill, there really is a question of who these people are. The Chancellor of Justice, and not only him, but also others, have repeatedly said that the language there, this pulpit, is at times unbearable. It's not possible to understand, it's completely insane. A good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, has published 20 books and, according to my information, still wants to become a writer's union. He's signing this bill. I see Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. I'll read you a few more sentences, five or six rows. For example, another sentence that I did not read before: 'The opinion was expressed that, because of the disagreement between the ministries, the proposal is not now ripe for a decision in the Commission, and that the question may concern not only one large producer but also other companies, so they should all be (P.E. again!) to be included in the preparation of the change, and only then should (P.E. just 'come on' again!) come with an initiative in a given format. " There are several sentences. The explanatory memorandum is page-long, it is not so much, but there are three such sentences here in any case. And it's not a question of substance. The real question is why we are given such explanatory notes. It is possible to say things simply in a clear Estonian language. And if I sign some texts, even if I'm chairman of the committee, how can I say that I don't know, wise ministerial officials and counsellors have written it? Of course they've written it! I do not think that a good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, has written it. But if he signs his name, you might want to see what kind of pulpit and what kind of crazy thing they beat up in there. Actually, it's really hard to understand what's going on here. It could be in the clear Estonian language that they want to say. There are language editors and so on, but there's been a lot of bypassing here. So I'm sorry I came here to talk about beer excise. But the language, especially those explanatory notes, could be more serious. This is not just a question of this draft 699. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U149	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U150	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll pick up where the previous speaker ended up saying, "I'm sorry I came here. " It really surprises me. This must be my destiny for the last 20 years: no matter what I say, sooner or later, there will be philological problems before me either way. The question is still with the same Estonian language. The question is whether we understand the impact of European Union documents, which as a rule are in the original English, on those people who write such explanatory notes. Just for example, what is affected here is that our authority sees it as a big plus in its life and career if it can work in Europe for a certain time. It's good to have people like that come back later. Do you really think that nothing will happen to their language if they have lived in Brussels or London for three or four years, no matter where? The other part of the question, however, is that the content of this draft is quite far from what was discussed in this Chamber. This is, in fact, a very positive, very good draft, which gives a number of new opportunities. We are discussing the language problem here. Sometimes I really read these explanatory notes. I've been talking about this remote, you can't do that, you can't do that. But I've seen such mistakes in those that come from the hall. I have a separate folder with absolutely incredible things: there are about 16 errors on three pages. There are those where there's no logic, and it involves all the fractions of your new home as well. So let's start with ourselves. But here's the question. What is more important to me, as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is it that those officials who work for us are members of the Writers' Association, great masters, stylists, literates, or that they understand? Ask yourself what you want when you go to a doctor. Is it that he is a brilliant linguist and knows a thousand poems to speak out of his head, or that he is a good doctor, even though he speaks badly? So I think it was an inflatable speech, which is why the previous speaker needed to associate me here with the Writers' Union. But thanks, I'll think about it. If you're a member of the Writers' Association, maybe you can give me a recommendation. I'm starting to think about it today, yes, but I found out about it today. We support this draft at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U151	I'm closing the negotiations. There are also amendments to the draft 699. Let's start reviewing them. There's three of them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the position of the commission is disregarded and the proposal is not voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. And the third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account. We have examined the amendments and the second reading is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U152	Let's go to the sixth set of agendas. Second reading of draft law 678 on the prevention of unfair competition and the protection of business secrets initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Toomas Kivimägi, vice-chair of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U153	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll start by saying that I'm not going to join the Writers' Association. But at the same time, I agree with both Peeter Ernits and Mr Stalnukhin that our legal language has become extremely complex. And I agree with the person who spoke to me just before me in that I also believe that this is, above all, related to the transposition of European Union directives and legislation. They're trying to translate one to one, but it doesn't work very often. In this sense, laws are really very difficult to read and understand only to specialists who can find something useful there. The purpose of this draft is, I recall, to make the business environment in Estonia safer. This need again stems from one European Union directive, the directive on the protection of business secrets. As another small reminder, if this draft is approved, the term 'fair competition' will disappear and it will be replaced by 'unfair competition'. I think that this is a valid and justified amendment. Here the word 'unfair' is again, because of the English language term 'unfair competition', a translation that is clearly more appropriate than 'unsatisfied', which has many other meanings. Since this draft also concerns a number of amendments to the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Law on the Application of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure, see how difficult it was! The Committee on Economic Affairs also considered it necessary to address the Committee on Legal Affairs for an opinion. In general, the Committee on Legal Affairs has often been the lead judge on similar drafts. Thus, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the referral of the Committee on Economic Affairs, discussed it, including at its meeting on 15 October, and concluded that it supported this draft. The members of the Commission did not have any objections or comments on amendments to the Penal Code and the Procedural Code. The Committee on Legal Affairs supports the further procedure of the draft, while the commission is in this case the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft again on 12 November, the Monday of this week. Apart from members of the Economic Commission and the Secretariat, Mr Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, and Käddi Tammik, Adviser to the Office of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice, took part in the meeting. It must be said immediately that there were no amendments to the draft from the members of the Riigikogu, the committees or the political groups, but two amendments were made by the chief trustee of the draft and the Ministry of Justice, the initiator of the draft. The first proposal is purely technical and it reads as follows. First of all, to change the amendment form of § 12 (1) of the draft, it is also an interesting word, I thought that the formulas are only those who travel on the track, but it seems that there is also a word such as'modification form' and worded as follows: 'Section 4 of Chapter 18 of the Code is supplemented by § 3315 in the following wording'. It is actually purely technical in order to determine where, i.e. which chapter the amendment falls under. Since it could be interpreted in two ways before whether it was part of the preceding chapter or part of the next chapter, this amendment now defines the chapter under which this amendment applies. The second more substantive proposal is that § 12 (2) of the Code shall be amended and worded as follows: 'On the basis of paragraph 1 of this section, the limitation of the public of the hearing shall be decided by the court by reasoned order of its own motion or at the request of a party to legal proceedings. ' This is an important procedural clarification, since the court is currently being declared in camera by means of a so-called protocol regulation and cannot be challenged. It has now taken the view that there should be a reasoned order by the judge, and this also means that this regulation can be challenged. One important positive result of this is certainly that the holding of the hearing in camera is much more well-considered and well-founded, as it must take into account the presumption that it may be challenged. Next, so far, point 1 becomes point 2, that's not what I'm going to read. The current point 2 becomes point 3 and there is also one word, the same 'based'. Point 3 so far becomes point 4. In addition, point 5 is added, which reads as follows: 'Article 385 (1) of the Code is repealed'. This is now linked to the fact that the same 385 paragraph 1 precludes a challenge. However, since the amendment mentioned at the outset still provides an opportunity to challenge the order, as I said before, is a reasoned order, it makes perfect sense that § 385 (1) of the Code is also repealed. In addition, paragraph 6:'§ 408 (5) of the Code shall be amended and worded as follows: 'The regulations for the suspension, the extension of the period for arrest, the arrest for extradition, the compulsory placing of a person in a medical institution, the seizure of property, the seizure, removal of a postal or telegraphic consignment and the application of a temporary restraining order, the regulations referred to in § 12 of this Code and the court order which cannot be challenged shall enter into force on their entry into force. '' It is also important that this regulation enters into force immediately. Perhaps it is possible to proceed with this trial in substance, even though someone may have challenged the declaration that it is closed. Some comments on the questions raised at the Commission meeting. Firstly, Kaido Rosin said that the procedural advisor of the Committee on Legal Affairs was asked to review the amendments and clarifications of the Penal Code and the Procedural Code, and the advisor has accepted these amendments. Secondly, Toomas Kivimägi asked for clarification as to whether, according to the law in force, the declaration of the sitting in camera could also take place in minutes and could not be contested, whereas the amendment would require a reasoned order and the amendment would give the right to object to the adjournment of the sitting in camera. Tanel Kalmet confirmed that the law currently in force lays down what has been said and, if the decision of a closed sitting is based on a regulation which can be examined by the court, it disciplines the court not to admit closed sittings unless it is fully justified. Kristen Michal examined why the draft has been presented as a complete text of the new law, not as an amendment to the existing laws, and how the creation of the new law will coincide with the principles of the legislative plan of the Ministry of Justice to reduce the volume of legislation. According to Käddi Tammik, it is technically not possible to introduce provisions in the law currently in force, as the so-called primal provisions already exist and the text would no longer be understood if these provisions were incorporated into other laws. Moreover, it is not appropriate to include in the current law a chapter that is excluded from competition law, as it is purely private and has no connection with the competition authority or national supervision. Finally, the Commission decided to propose the termination of the second reading (the decision was consensual), to send the draft to the third reading when the second reading is closed, including by (consensually) 21 November and to propose the final vote on the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U154	Dear Toomas Kivimägi, there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U155	Good manager! Good waitress! I read this law, and on the second page there is § 6 'Employment of the employee and representative of another entrepreneur'. There's just a sentence written here that ultimately says nothing and then says everything. Today, as we hear every day, people from one company to another are being bought over a good salary. Is it possible from this point of view that, if the law is adopted, if I have taken over or bought an employee from another company, it is like taking advantage of an employee or a representative of another company? Was it during the debate in the Commission, or was this point not discussed at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U156	This issue was not discussed at the Commission's meeting and no one drew attention to it at the time. Indeed, I started out in the legal language and not in vain. There have also been repeated complaints that, for example, the concept of business secrecy is not included in the model list of this law. There was a lot of debate about whether it should be there or not. The Ministry of Justice considers that, in principle, it is not right to bring such indicative lists to the level of the law. The reason is that the legislator cannot foresee all the possibilities when adopting the law and may limit the decision-making power and the country of the court. However, in the case of this example, which I brought about concerning business secrecy, a compromise has been found that the model list is set out in the explanatory memorandum. So it is not for the court to lay down that provision once and for all. I admit it's general enough, and your example, in my opinion, doesn't apply. Of course, it is the court that decides to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U157	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U158	Good manager! Good waitress! Before, when I was talking about the outpouring of the pulpit, you agreed with me. Now, however, we have come to the same thing by chance with a completely different draft. At first reading, I was talking about the speaker that this is the same bill that the respected national judges said that the pig does not understand what you are talking about and whether it is necessary to accept this nonsense. The Ministry of Justice announced that it does, because it is as it comes from Europe. And now the question is that even the respected judges of the state do not understand, but we in the Commission are told that these lower courts will have to begin to formulate this concept. There have been some explanations in the explanatory memorandum, but is it normal that we process here such drafts that even the judges of state do not understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U159	Thank you. Once again, I would point out that the transposition of these same directives is problematic. One reason why officials themselves say they do not dare to change these texts very much or, let us say, to adapt the Estonian language more customarily is that, in this case, if we show a little too much of our own creation there, we may be accused of not transposing the directive in a single way. As far as the Supreme Court's comment is concerned, indeed, they have said that the concept of business secrecy is difficult to grasp. The Supreme Court added that the law must be understood by as many persons as possible. If, for any reason, it is not possible to provide a clear text within the law itself, the explanations must at least be given in the explanatory memorandum. As I said above, this compromise has now been made by the Ministry of Justice, which, however, in the explanatory memorandum, contains an indicative list of business secrets. In this sense, I think that the Supreme Court's comment has been resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U160	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission. Your comments on the language of our laws will be signed with two hands. But you said in your introduction to the presentation that the word 'unfair' is certainly better than 'cool'. 'Suitable' is an old Estonian word with very clear content. Why and why do you prefer the word 'unfair' to 'comfort'?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U162	Thank you. I appreciate your language in this hall very much, Krista, and I read it so that no one will be harmed by the top ten. In this case, however, the second point is that this prerogative is not my personal position. However, this word has been introduced by the Ministry of Justice, the initiator of the draft directive, and it follows from the English text of the directive, which reads unfair. In this sense, if you are now trying to translate it from English into Estonian, I also believe that 'unfair' is clearly more accurate. I hope you're helping me, but I think the word'supplies' still has a lot of emotional aspects. It is, of course, a very beautiful and nice word, but the meaning is not, of course, equivalent to its sound and expression, and it is obviously different in its content from the word 'unfair'. A person's conduct may be unfair, but it is not dishonest yet. Although, if you betray someone, it could be unfair. However, I think that the word'satisfying' has a much stronger emotional aspect, but in this case emotions do not pay very much and must be much more specific in this respect: whether it is honest or unfair. It would also clearly be much more difficult to explain the word'suitable' than the word 'unfair'.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U163	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U164	Good manager! Good Thomas! Unfortunately, during the second reading, the draft itself will no longer be produced in the hall, but the second reading material will be delivered. Can you tell me if the explanatory memorandum to the bill states in any way what the exploitation of the employee or representative of another undertaking is? Is there more than that one sentence written here? That seems really weird, to be honest. This sentence can be twisted and rotated either way. If we leave it to the judges alone, there may be a great many questions. There may also be the exact same question that you and I agree that the employee's overshopping should not go down here, but maybe the other way around it will be used to get the secrets of another company.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U165	Thank you. This is where we should go back in time. This issue has indeed been dealt with in the draft explanatory memorandum, but with reference to an earlier law. In particular, § 6 of the draft in question refers to § 52 (2) of the current Competition Act, i.e. it is already included in the current law. The provision has not been amended in so far as the word 'or' has been replaced by 'and' in the title of the provision in order to harmonise the language of the laws in force. So in order to clarify this concept, the competition law should be sought out when it was processed in the Riigikogu, and its explanatory memorandum will then provide a more precise substantive explanation of the relevant provision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U166	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U167	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm getting back to the language for some reason today. In essence, of course, this matter of the explanatory memorandum does not give much answer to the irrationalness of the Supreme Court; it still remains to be furnished by lower courts. But you said you couldn't write in clear Estonian, because Europe or Brussels could then upset us. My question is simple: if that is why we cannot write in a proper Estonian language, is the Republic of Estonia still sovereign?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U168	Thank you, good questioner! This certainly does not call into question the sovereignty of the Estonian state. The question is, however, that we are a member of one Union. In such a case, when everyone freely interprets their freedoms within this Union, it is very difficult for the Union to act in unity. I also think that, in fact, every directive should be transposed in the same way in all Member States, so that its meaning in Estonia and, for example, in Hungary is not radically different. In my opinion, there is no reason to question the fact that the principle, if any, has been taken over unambiguously. Nobody's gonna stop us from writing in a clear way. Nowhere has it been said that we should not write in clear Estonian. Of course, there is no such prohibition, but the legal language at European Union level is in fact extremely complex. I have studied law myself, and I honestly admit that a number of laws are very, very difficult to read. Why is that? It's a matter of its own. We met today with the leaders of the Confederation of Employers and Mr Toomas Tamsar, and there was legislation. I remembered his sentence, 'Let's do half as much', said four years ago, before the Riigikogu elections. I really liked it, but no one dared to go behind it. His idea at the time was that we'd take half the law. But if you say we're doing half as much, some people think we're working half as much. I wouldn't be able to hear those reproaches and comments. But as a principle, this is the right approach. The more we adopt new laws, the more difficult it is to really understand them. Here is also one such principle, which was also very interesting in today's debate, that if we adopt some new law, we should perhaps, figuratively speaking, cancel the two previous ones, because we cannot just create more all the time. If we have a new situation and we're creating something new, then the old one should disappear. This would require very serious attention and debate. I think that, above all, language experts and experts should discuss this issue. I say once again: I'm sorry, but it doesn't make sense to most people who should read these laws. The legal language has become so complicated that it is not understandable. But it certainly doesn't undermine our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U169	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, Toomas Kivimägi, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. There have also been two amendments to draft 678; we will start reviewing them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the position of the commission is to take full account in the same way. We have examined the amendments and finished the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U170	We will go to item No 7, which is the second reading of the General Part of the Civil Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Bill amending the Law of Obligations Act, the General Part of the Civil Code Act and the Law on the Implementation of Private International Law Act (627 SE). Report from Hardi Volmer, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U171	Dear Chairman, Honourable colleagues! The previous speech reminded me that, with regard to our legal lexicity, the legal language has also been suggested that you do not know, perhaps unconsciously trying to keep alive the 'priests' of legal texts and complex combinations of words, interpreters for ordinary people of all kinds of legal texts, so that their bread does not disappear. I don't know! But to the point! I will start with the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Protocol 200 on Tuesday, 6 November. The meeting was chaired by Jaanus Karilaid, the protocol officer Tiina Kärsna. The second item on the agenda was the draft law amending the General Part of the Civil Code Act and the Law of Obligations Act, the General Part of the Civil Code Act and the Law on the Implementation of the Private International Law Act (627 SE I). Sounded good! Jüri Adams, Member of the Riigikogu, Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, and Kristi Sobak, Press Advisor to the Public Relations Department of the Office of the Riigikogu were invited. Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur, Toomas Vitsut and Urve Tiidus took part in the meeting, including Carina Rikart as advisor, Linnar Liivamägi as advisor and Raini Laide as adviser-secretary. Mati Raidma, Olga Ivanova and Vilja Toomas were absent. Indrek Niklus stated that the draft in question alters the limitation period for claims of the court settlement or other parts recognised by the enforceable title. Under the current law, all civil law requirements recognised by the enforceable title expire uniformly over a period of 10 years. The purpose of the draft measure is to provide that the limitation period for claims resulting from 'delict claims' and civil actions brought in the framework of criminal proceedings is to extend from 10 to 20 years. The amendment is accompanied by the possibility that the maximum limitation period for certain claims may be up to 40 years in the light of interruptions. Jüri Adams pointed out that the word 'claim' is used in Estonian legal terminology. Adams doesn't think it's right, and he suggested changing the situation. He explained that the term "claim' is currently used in the law on bailiffs. This has led to a situation where practical problems for bailiffs have begun to be dissected in the light of the Law of Obligations Act and the General Part of the Civil Code Act. Jaanus Karilaid asked for concrete examples where the homonym referred to had proved to be a problem. Jüri Adams referred to a letter from the Ministry of Justice listing different types of claim, but having no bearing on the meaning of the term 'claim' in private law. Mr Karilaid asked to explain the impact of the amendment tabled by Mr Külliki and Mr Adams, if approved. Linnar Liivamägi explained that the expiry clause of the claim recognised by the final judgment means that the claim has been discussed clearly, that there is an enforceable document, that there are no problems with the claim and that it is a question of enforcement. The 30-year limitation period in force before 2011 was considered too long and unreasonable and excessively burdensome. Therefore, on the basis of the identification of the Supreme Court, the general limitation period of 30 years was reduced to 10 years by the law on debt restructuring and debt protection. The purpose of this draft is to provide for a derogation. It is desirable to establish a special rule according to which the limitation periods for claims resulting from unlawful acts of damage are more than half the overall time limit. However, Külli's proposal by the Hatter and Jüri Adams provides for a general limitation period of 30 years without a special rule. In essence, this would be a return to the situation that existed before 2010. Külliiki Kübarsepp was interested in why the Supreme Court considered it necessary to reduce the limitation period of 30 years. Indrek Niklus explained that the aim was to reduce 'lifelong debt'. The 30-year period resulted in a total limitation period of 60 years. It wasn't considered right. He noted that there was also a trend towards shorter limitation periods in other parts of Europe. It is usually 10-15 years, but it is still 30 years in Germany and Austria, for example. Liivamägi added that if the parliament had not reduced this deadline, the Supreme Court would probably have declared the 30-year term to be incompatible with the Constitution. According to Jüri Adams, a 30 - year limitation period could be reasonable, for example, in matters of succession. He noted that there were people trying to avoid paying debts and that the shortest possible deadline would be appropriate for them. Urve Tiidus asked me to explain why the 30-year limitation period is in conflict with the Constitution. Linnar Liivamägi explained that the question is proportionality. If, for example, in bankruptcy proceedings, debt relief is possible within 3 to 7 years, it is not justified that the debt of a quick loan expires within 30 years. The Hatter asked for clarification as to why the Supreme Court did not support the deadline of 20 years. According to Indrek Niklus, the Supreme Court considered that the limitation period should not be differentiated or extended. If the deadline is extended, there is a deviation from the established situation elsewhere in Europe. We would also put debtors in a difficult position. Differentiation was not advocated because the delict may be difficult to clarify from the perspective of the resolution of the court settlement. Hardi Volmer asked why the limitation period under the Bankruptcy Act could not be extended to 10 years. Indrek Niklus explained that the five-year period provided for in the Bankruptcy Act was the time during which the debtor had to give up 75% of his income to be seized and to provide explanations on what he had taken to repay his debts. If a person has behaved well during this period, the court will have the opportunity to release him from his debts. In such a case, it is not a limitation period, although the result is the same, i.e. the person does not have to pay the debts. There is an exception. No exemption may be granted in the event of unlawful damage. There's a longer term. Nor can it be exempted from maintenance requirements. He added that the Council of Europe is currently debating whether it would not be an obligation for all Member States to release a natural person from debt as a result of the bankruptcy mechanism for a maximum period of three years. Linnar Liivamägi added that the draft in question seeks to extend the overall deadline of 10 years to 20 years only for those who have unlawfully caused the damage. With regard to the proposals for amending the draft law, the Committee on Legal Affairs took the following position. The first proposal was to amend the text of § 1 of the draft text and to formulate it as follows:'§ 157 (1) of the General Part of the Civil Code Act is amended and worded as follows: 'The limitation period for a claim recognised by a judgment, as well as for a claim arising from a court settlement or other enforceable title, shall be 30 years. In Appendix 1 to the explanatory memorandum, the Supreme Court and the Estonian Bar Association have made their proposals and comments. According to the case law of the Supreme Court, the claimant can rely on both contractual and non-contractual grounds at the same time and the court must verify, within the framework of the application of the law, whether the grounds for the application of one or the other liability have been fulfilled, i.e. certified. According to the Estonian Bar Association, it is not justified to apply a significantly different limitation period for the enforcement of the judgment depending on whether the claim was filed or qualified by the court on a contractual or non-contractual basis. It is technically questionable that a claim for unlawful damage and a claim for civil action in criminal proceedings should be specifically mentioned in the current wording of the draft. There is no need to make a distinction as to whether a claim for compensation for damage caused by a criminal offence was recognised in civil or criminal proceedings. The Estonian Bar Association also pointed out that the limitation period for claims for damages caused by an offence recognised by an enforceable title could be 25 years. The solution is to go back to the version in force in 2002, where the limitation period for the claim was 30 years. The authors of this proposal are the members of the Riigikogu Külmiki Kübarsepp and Jüri Adams. The commission decided to disregard the proposal. By Jaanus Karilaid, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur and Toomas Vitsut, Külmiki Kübarsepp, with the abstentions of Uno Kaskpeit and Hardi Volmer. The second amendment was to amend § 9 (5) in § 2 of the draft "amendment of the Law of Obligations Act, the General Part of the Civil Code Act and the Law on the Implementation of the Law on Private International Law' and to read as follows: "The provisions of § 157 (1) of the General Part of the Civil Code Act on the expiry of the law shall also apply to the outstanding requirements arising before 1 July 2019. If the limitation period under Paragraph 157 (1) of the General Part of the Civil Code Act in force before 1 July 19 expires earlier than the period referred to in the first sentence of this paragraph, Paragraph 157 (1) of the General Part of the Civil Code Act in force before 1 July 2019 shall apply. ' An amendment is necessary to indicate how the limitation period will be applied after the amendment has become effective. Members of the Riigikogu Külmiki Kübarsepp and Jüri Adams are the authors of this proposal. The commission decided not to accept the proposal. By Jaanus Karilaid, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur and Toomas Vitsut, Külmiki Kübarsepp, with the abstentions of Uno Kaskpeit and Hardi Volmer. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today (consensus); propose that the second reading be closed (by 6, Külliki Kübarsepp was impartial) and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed (consensus) and fourthly, to propose a final vote on the draft. It was a joyfully consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U172	Honourable Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Hardi Volmer, thank you very much for your presentation. But there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U173	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, first of all, thank you very much for having read the Commission's protocol to us properly. But I have a question. You abstained on both points. Did you have a position or did you not have a position? And does it make any sense that the debt expires at some point? If I still owe someone, I should still pay it at some point. We are now discussing who likes the 10, who likes the 20, who have 30 years, but was this subject discussed in the Commission so that perhaps there should not be a deadline? As long as a man is alive, so long he owes. In the old days, debts were inherited, and still today, debts are passed on to future generations. Did you have an opinion in voting on these points, or did you just abstain?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U174	Thanks for asking. I have to admit, I was trying to shape my own personal opinion on the surface of some of these finenesses. But in the short time that the Committee on Legal Affairs was sitting, my educational background did not allow me to find out about the details that we are actually talking about in these legal fines. I have to admit it with shame. I therefore did not consider that I should be directly opposed to the amendments and abstained. That, yes, is quite rare. The whole debate was interesting, but I also have to admit that if the surface, where I may feel a little more confident, is Estonian, then today, as mentioned earlier, all kinds of lexicism made me confused. In general, if I do well, I can at least understand what they want to say to me or what some provision or amendment involves, but the reference made by the honourable Jüri Adams to the inadequacy of one of the concepts gave me the embarrassment. What did he have here? [[Browse papers.]] Yes, a claim was once a claim. Adams asked why this requirement does not apply to all or their differences under the Law of Obligations Act. I admit it was dark for me, so I'd be happy to go to the honorable Mr. Adams and find out what the difference is.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U175	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. You gave a thorough overview of what happened in the Commission, but I have a question. Two members of the Free Party Group made an excellent amendment. What was the justification given by the Members of the Commission that this amendment could not be taken into account? Was it too long for the debtor, or how was it justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U177	Thanks for asking. I owe you a specific answer because... Isn't it a nice coincidence in the context of the Law of Obligations Act that I owe you an answer? I do not remember such a very impressive explanation as being presented in human languages and perched in my memory. So, unfortunately, yes, I can't respond adequately right now. I might be able to blur and perform with an evasive response that I don't want to do. Of course, you have the right to ask a written question. The question itself is a good one. Let us, then, collectively recall what this reason really was. Probably also something that relates to the question of the previous questioner, why did I disagree, or abstain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U178	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U179	Thank you. Mr. Volmer! As a representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs, you said that you are interesting there, even though you are not a lawyer. Extend it a little! You seem really interesting out there. You do not have any lawyers or economists on the Commission, yet there is always interesting news that your committee knows exactly how to do financial supervision, how to catch money launderers, how Russia is always asking for legal aid and Estonia does not give it. He came back last night. Do you have the impression that it is Estonia that has failed in money laundering? Now the Committee on Legal Affairs has examined something and revealed something and is ashamed by the Financial Inspectorate, the Prosecutor's Office, the Estonian State. Comment on these news for a while!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U180	Thanks for asking and insinuating! This question is obviously out of the scope of this particular draft. However, this is quite an interesting observation, to be honest. I myself have not, I admit again, studied the educational background of my colleagues in the Commission and their working history. As far as I know, there are still quite a few people with legal education. Let's be more specific, okay? That I'm there, maybe that's what's going to do a little bit weird and perilous, but I'm not there of my own volition, as we know. Sometimes they don't go to committees on their own request, they end up there. However, as far as Estonia's overall reputational damage in relation to the unfortunate case of Danske Bank and its handling and discussion in the committee in question is concerned, I have to admit that, for example, yesterday there was a hearing of the opinion of the respected, the current Chief Prosecutor or the Prosecutor General, as well as of the previous prosecutor general. And I was anxious to ask you, respectables, whether you are obliged to report to us here under the law, or whether you are simply doing it out of your own good will. It seems a little too much to go on. That's my personal opinion. We know that the courts are grinding and processing. This has also revealed a great deal, for example, how much these sums could hypothetically be. But the hysteria that went off in the press probably doesn't correspond to what really happened. The fact is that Estonia's reputation has been damaged. Who is directly responsible for this and how much, fortunately, the Committee on Legal Affairs has not presented any summary 'edict' that this is the case, and we think that these and those persons acted suspiciously or unrighteously or exceeded their powers. Rather, the image of the Danish State should perhaps be damaged. But, on the other hand, I think that, since the Commission has the right to deal with and touch the subject well, in this case it will do so. If it were up to me, maybe I'd leave it alone now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U181	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U182	Thank you, dear waitress. Please enlighten me briefly, what happens if all the members of the Commission, i.e. none of them, are able to understand what we are talking about during the short committee sitting and vote impartially during the vote. What about the laws of the Estonian state and the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U183	Thanks for asking. Let's just say that no one can imagine the situation you just described. In principle, however, this is probably not excluded. Oh, my God! But procedurally speaking, I don't know what's gonna happen. I imagine that the debate on the subject might be repeated, because this cannot be the case. It would, of course, be a case that will forever remain in the history of our parliamentary culture. I understand what you were referring to in your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U184	Honourable member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Hardi Volmer, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U185	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this speaking board, I had the honour to report repeatedly in 2000 and 2001 how gradually the law, which was finally called the Law of Obligations, would be completed. In Estonia, as far as I know, this second law has not been passed, and it was also exceptional that it was dealt with in parts. I don't know that any other bill has ever been dealt with in pieces. By adopting this law in Estonia, we have completed the establishment of a branch of law called private law. There were problems with private law in the past. In fact, most of the norms in this area had not been translated into Estonian before World War II, mainly known through German and Russian. In 2001, we got this job done, and this thing has worked quite well. However, there have been a number of problems with the implementation of these standards. The main problem has been that most people who studied law at the university before the restoration of private law in Estonia did not have any preparation in this area. The Soviet legal system did not feel at all this part of the law and did not consider it necessary. Now we have younger lawyers, some of whom know this area of law, and there are older lawyers who do not know anything about it. Some have tried to bring themselves up to speed, others have not. This has been the reality of our lives for decades. As regards the question that was put here to Mr Volmer, it is true that, compared to the year 2001, for example, the preparation of Riigikogu staff on matters of private law is much worse. The lawyers who then worked in the Riigikogu, who had been trained in it, have now left. The last of them left around the time the current Riigikogu came together. A more serious problem, however, is that those who know the law in this area have almost all left the Ministry of Justice as well; they have got winds. This raises the question which Mr Volmer now raised: what happens if the councillors of the Riigikogu cannot explain and the members of the committee cannot ask. I have a specific answer that the main author of the draft law of debt was the current judge of state, Villu Kõve, and probably he should have called for explanations. He could have answered questions I couldn't answer. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U186	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U187	There's a whole series of questions. One of the things that left Mr. Volmer crazy, and I'll come to that soon. But first of all, these deadlines. I got a piece of study from one of our advisors at his university. The overview of the various deadlines in private law in Estonia was 50 computer pages long. This is a very complex area, and no one needs to go into these nuances. But we need to understand that there are general deadlines and there are more specific deadlines that apply to individual areas. The general time limits were set in the Law of Obligations Act at the time by two. One is ten years. It's time to make a claim. I'd explain it like that if someone thinks he's in debt, but he hasn't asked for it back in ten years, then it might be too late. And the second general rule is that 30 years is the ultimate deadline for payment, which means philosophically that offspring do not have to pay their ancestors' debts from generation to generation. These two deadlines should not be set aside, at least for no reason. However, around 2011 there has been a confusion about these deadlines in Estonian law. The reason is probably the lack of education of the people involved. This draft is an attempt to correct errors made in 2011. At the moment, it has been understood that this reduction in time for certain reasons was wrong. I don't have much time. I only mention here, in order to record the verbatim, that when we introduced the word 'claim' as a basic term of the Law of Obligations Act in our own time, it seemed okay that this word could be used in that sense. About 2011 a major linguistic confusion occurred, which is a disgrace to the Estonian Code. In fact, the same word was introduced in another sense: the subject of the bailiff's work was also called a requirement. In the past, they were called 'inheritances' and these two concepts were clearly distinguishable. But then things got messy and the mess goes on until now. If, for example, it is decided that high-speed loans must be recovered from debtors within a relatively short period of time, perhaps within a few years, perhaps even within a shorter period, this does not mean that the general maturity of all claims should also be reduced as time limits for the types of urgent and payable debt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U188	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. There are two proposals to amend the bill, let's review them. The first amendment is tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Külliki Kübarsep and Jüri Adams. The commission's proposal is to disregard this and the proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. The second amendment is also proposed by the members of the Riigikogu, Külliki Kübarsep and Jüri Adams, and the proposal of the commission is also disregarded. This proposal also does not belong to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U189	We will go to the eighth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the approval of the State's summary report for the financial year 2017 (694 OE). To present the speech chair, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U190	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Before you is a summary report of the state's financial year, which summarises the activities, revenue and expenditure of the state and the financial situation at the end of 2017. Overall, in 2017, we can say that the Estonian economy grew above expectations: 4.9%. For the people of Estonia, the year was a positive one again. Employment increased by 2.2% and unemployment fell to 5.8%. The average wage increased by 6.5%. From the attached report, you will find out more about what the government did and achieved with the money provided for in the budget. In short, 2017 can be summarised by increasing the security, security and well-being of our people. Our defenses and our population have also increased. On 1 January 2018, nearly 3,500 more people lived in Estonia than in early 2017. Our children's benefits, and certainly the benefits of a large family, helped to bring us to such a level that many third children were born into our families a year later. Let's hope this trend continues. The summary report for the financial year of the State has been compiled on the basis of the accounts of all public sector entities. It consists of an annual report and an accounting report and contains data on the state, local government, government and public sector as a whole. The activity report provides an overview of the country's most important economic indicators and sectoral results in 2017, as well as a summary of the results of ministries, the State Chancellery and constitutional institutions. As of 31 December 2017, the State had assets worth a total of EUR 17,3 billion, most of which are fixed assets. Compared to the previous period, the value of the assets increased by EUR 788.7 million. The stability reserve increased by 1.5% and the liquidity reserve decreased by 5.3%. The total liabilities amounted to EUR 7.9 billion and increased by EUR 484.8 million compared to the previous period. By contrast, loan liabilities decreased by EUR 15,4 million over the year and amounted to EUR 2,9 billion at the end of the year. In 2017, the country moved from a cash-based budget to an accruals-based one and therefore costs and revenues are not comparable to the previous year. As early as 2004, the Estonian public sector moved to the principle of accruals accounting. The transition to an accrual-based budget brought budgeting and accounting on a uniform basis. This increases the reliability of the reports, as the revenue and expenditure of the budget is reflected at the time of the economic transactions, rather than when the money is received or paid out. Last year, the state budget received €9.16 billion, or 96.6% of what was originally planned. Tax revenue, together with the taxes to be passed on, amounted to EUR 7.94 billion, or 98.6% of the budget. Non-tax revenues received EUR 1.05 billion, or 120.8% of what was planned for the year. Non-tax revenues were below expectations, accounting for 74.1% of the expected revenue. More revenue came from state fees, the sale of fixed assets and environmental charges than predicted. Expenditure and investment were planned at EUR 9.97 billion in the state budget for 2017 and by the end of the year we had made expenditure and investments for a total of EUR 9.26 billion. Thus, we implemented 92.9% of the expenditure budget. The National Audit Office's report is included in the summary report for the financial year, which the Auditor General gives a more detailed overview of. In short, according to the control report submitted by the National Audit Office, the annual accounts of the state for 2017 are correct in a substantial part and the expenditure was made in accordance with the State Budget Act. As in previous years, the National Audit Office made proposals in its report on the financial management of the state, recommending a review of the legal bases and principles of the management of state reserves. The National Audit Office once again recommended that the principles of determining the optimal size of the stabilisation reserve be worked out and the accounting methodology regulated, assessing the nature and amount of possible extraordinary expenses. We continue to believe that the current practice of increasing the stabilisation reserve and the financial risk management rules are still appropriate today, while ensuring, together with other financial resources from the State, that sufficient funds are available for foreseeable emergency situations as well. Honourable Riigikogu! Please confirm the country's 2017 summary report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U191	Honourable Minister of Finance! You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said in your report that in 2017 the loan money was also repaid. For 2019, for next year's budget, you have said that it will come with a surplus, but the surplus will not be placed in reserve, but the loan will be repaid. So, in 2017, the loan was also repaid, but the budget was in deficit last year, in every position: structurally in deficit, nominally in deficit, cash-flow in deficit. What was the repayment of the loan in 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U193	Thank you. When the 2017 state budget was transferred to the Riigikogu, it was 0.2% of the structural surplus and as such the new coalition adopted it in the Riigikogu. It meant a nominal deficit of about 135 million, if I remember correctly. In the meantime, however, developments over the economic cycle have been re-evaluated. When it was initially estimated that the economy would operate below its potential level, it actually turned out that the economy was above its potential level last year when it was assessed ex post. It is positive that the nominal deficit decreased, but it meant yes that the budget deficit fell structurally. I come again to the old issue that the government budget balance depends, in addition to the state budget, on local governments, the sickness fund and the unemployment fund, foundations established by the state, public institutions and state companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U194	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U195	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! We have heard from your presentation a sentence that the state accounts report is substantially correct. But we take the theoretical situation that the Riigikogu decides not to approve this report. What happens then? This is the right thing to do, but in a small, insignificant part, it is not the right thing to do. If the Riigikogu thinks that this review should be carried out because it is not correct in its entirety, what will happen next?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U196	Thank you for your question. I'm telling you the truth, I don't know exactly what's gonna happen. Well, then we'll have to reshape it. In the debate on the previous point, there were major legal professionals here, perhaps it would be more appropriate to ask them. But I guess he's got that decision in your hands, and if you find that the review needs to be adjusted, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U197	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U198	Good manager! Good minister! It's a very interesting lie here on 300 pages and you could ask a lot. We have had an administrative reform and we are talking about reducing the number of officials, but now I read here that, in fact, this figure has only decreased by 131 people in the last year, or 0.1%. There are 61893, local government figures in the central government 53766. With regard to administrative reform, it was said that officials would be reduced, but the overall picture would still be rather depressing. Only 0.1% of this staff has decreased. Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U199	Thank you. I think it is a question of what services we think the state should guarantee. That's where it all starts. Secondly, it is important how many tasks we are giving to the country, how much bureaucracy we are creating. Whether every idea or idea created here is executed or thrown into a trash can, it takes people's work, effort, and authority to decide on it. Our common goal must be for the public sector to function as effectively as possible, and certainly the number of people working in the public sector will also play a role. But once again, it is very clear what the problem is: is the problem of having too many teachers, or is the problem of having too many policemen, or that we have too many workers in the medical sector. Or the problem is that when we talk about the need to bring together tens of thousands of people, there is a reference to people working in ministries who are under 3000. So we're going to have to figure out where these trouble spots are. But I agree that there is still room for improvement on the local level. The administrative reform was one step in this direction and I hope that this positive direction will continue there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U200	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! The situation is pretty bad when it comes to R &amp; D funding. Until 2015, Estonia remained slightly above the average among the EU Member States. Since 2016, Estonia has consistently fallen both in a table showing the share of its funding in GDP and in the overall innovation table. What are the conclusions that you, as Minister of Finance, have made since you have seen the share of R &amp; D in the 2017 recapitulative report, and what steps are you prepared to take? After all, science is one of the engines of modern society's development.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U202	Thank you. I fully agree that the area of R &amp; D is crucial. Innovation is important and the budgetary resources that we are channelling into it have actually grown. However, the broader question is how much our budgetary contribution to this will help to increase GDP. How much this field of work is related to entrepreneurship and supports the business sector. This is, in my opinion, one of the most important shortcomings in our current approach to research and innovation. We need to find a common language and understand that investment in research and development could go hand in hand with entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U203	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U204	Thank you. My dear minister! You applauded the fact that this coalition adopted a budget in structural surpluses. We're talking about 2017 then. I would remind you that this was the budget of the previous coalition, which you then made bigger with increases in excise duty, with increases in social taxes and so on. So that's not the issue right now. But this morning's news was about how the budget illegally uses social funds reserves. I disagree here, but I ask: what was the structural position of the central government in 2017? Is that a plus or a minus and how much? I've still got a minute. In my day, the budgets were adopted with a 0.7% structural surplus, so there is no need to brag too much. What was the structural position of the central government in 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U205	Thank you for your question. I thought I said it like it was. The state budget was transferred with structural surpluses, just as it was in the process before the new coalition took over. Unfortunately, due to the re-evaluation, the structural balance became negative, according to the latest data from Statistics Estonia, i.e. we are talking about deficit. I would also like to say that the new coalition at that time really cancelled the increase in diesel excise duty, which generated a budget of 37.5 million expenditure and was expected to cover it with excise revenue. Today, it can be said that the amount of excise duty collected was less than EUR 55 million, 32 million of which was due to a change in stocks, or a large part of it was received in 2016. I can't say the structural position of the central government at the moment so quickly, it can be sent later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U206	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U207	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On 22 November 2017, you have issued a press release or at least the title of the news is 'The state regularises the use of the reserves of the sickness and unemployment fund'. Consequently, their use is not in accordance with the law. The same is said by the National Audit Office in the recent annual report and recently the Chancellor of Justice has also stressed that the use of the reserves of the sickness and unemployment fund is not in accordance with the current law. But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. If you promised to legitimize it a year ago, when will you come here with this bill before the Riigikogu? I know this bill has bounced back and forth. I think it's in the Ministry of Social Affairs right now, where they want to link it to a bill to change the name of the Health Insurance Fund. Look, this thing has got to be fixed. You didn't answer my last question. I argue that in 2017 the sickness fund was also used to repay loans. Confirm or disprove! When's this bill coming? Please note that there are not too many working weeks left in this Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U208	Thank you for your question. Lawyers have different views on the legality of keeping the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund in the Treasury. For reasons of legal clarity, the Ministry of Finance supports the amendment of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act and has made its proposals to the Ministry of Social Affairs as the Ministry responsible for the field. When it turns into law, I can't tell you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U209	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! There's so many numbers, you can't remember them all. One simple question for a change. Good times are there to repair the roof or strengthen the foundation. Could you mention three basic fiscal decisions or structural decisions that have improved Estonia as an investment environment or an entrepreneurial environment? Such structural changes can be made precisely when tax receipts are very good and inflation is relatively low. In 2017, this was already quite considerable. But what are the three fundamental decisions that have prepared us for difficult times, that Estonia will continue to be attractive as an investment environment and that our entrepreneurs will be competitive?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U211	Thank you. I think one decision is the same reform of tax-free income, which reduced the tax burden on low and medium earners, and which actually also gives employers a great deal of pleasure. I may be able to stand up more for the decisions that have been made since I was Minister of Finance. At that time, changes have been made to our excise policy. The increase in excise duties scheduled for the beginning of this year has been smaller than planned, and no further increases have been made. I think that such a tax truce is certainly good news from the point of view of our business environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U212	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U213	Thank you. It is a bit unexpected that the Minister of the IRL is defending the central party tax system, which has fostered low-paid work and envelope wages in the economy. But let him stay right now. I wanted to answer Mr Jürgen Near for you that the structural minus of the general government was 0.3% of GDP. So even in spite of the good times, the government was down. You can read at least that way in this text. But I want to ask you about real estate. Very many objects that the government has held have been standing and falling apart for many years. Patarei Prison, Liberty Manor, there are all these buildings, and yes. It's like there's no money. Or I don't know what it's behind, is it the courage of decision-making? The former buildings of the ministries in the centre of Tallinn are empty. For at least a year, they have been largely empty, if not one and a half. Don't you think this is a bit strange? As an entrepreneur, would you keep a large office building empty in the Old Town of Tallinn for a year and a half?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U214	Thank you. It's your former field now, and that's why you're so worried. This is currently the area of my colleague Janek Mägg. The government is clearly working towards efficiency here: we want to use the surfaces that the country has as effectively as possible. There is a concept of public houses for this: houses or real estate that are important to us must be used efficiently, and what the state does not need must be sold. However, why one object or another is standing empty, either because it was only moved out of there and was intended to be repaired or sold or whatever, should be answered separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U215	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U216	Good manager! Good waitress! As I learned from the previous response, there are now only 131 fewer than the 117,000 people who worked in the government sector. And now I read here that the factors that hindered the achievement of the objectives are limited opportunities to motivate workers and achieve more effective work. Why don't you open up a little bit of why the possibilities of motivating employees in the Republic of Estonia are small and the measures to achieve effective work are not working?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U217	Thank you. It is not a secret that ministries have gained very little in terms of management costs and salary increases in recent years; all this has been at the expense of internal resources. We also know that for years there has been talk of small wages in the internal security system and in the medical sector, in the last area of nursing. That's the shortage of resources. Nor do we have enough IT specialists in the public sector. In fact, however, it is crucial in every area to motivate these people to continue to do the same work. One motivator is a decent salary, certainly a good working environment, that work is interesting and you can contribute to the development of the Estonian state. Well, the motivations are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U218	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We all know in this Chamber that the wise state will ensure that reserves exist and that they are not wasted with light hands. There could be crises and then there should be money in the reserve. Very foresightful and reasonable! Estonia has two reserves, stabilisation and liquidity reserves, but in addition, the unemployment fund and the sickness fund have reserves. Our annual report is also assessed by the National Audit Office, which has previously recommended that the health insurance fund and the unemployment fund be more responsible for managing reserves. They have recommended that there should be a method of calculation that also takes into account future risks when designing the reserves of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund. However, they agree or do not object to the fact that these reserves do not need to have a ceiling. Is the Ministry of Finance working on this methodology? Do you have an algorithm or something that will help, as the National Audit Office recommends?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U220	Thank you. Yes, we are talking about finding the optimal size of the stabilisation reserve and on the reserves of the unemployment and sickness funds in the same way. In its earlier decisions, the Riigikogu has based its resources on sound principles in the Ministry of Finance. In particular, public money flow and debt management are considered to be important, in which it is certainly a very important and important part of a single cash flow management that ensures greater liquidity and more efficient use of financial resources. If we are talking about the optimal size of the stabilisation reserve, yes, there is a specialist committee that includes specialists from the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank. On the basis of possible risk scenarios, they have identified the optimal amount of reserves. They believe that our reserves are sufficient for possible crises and that there is no need to set any standards or ceilings at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U221	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! From the answer to the previous question, we heard that money, like no, cannot motivate workers. The question above was about funding science, and it is not like you can put money in it, because I don't think it is. For the health and social sectors, as a percentage of GDP, we spend less than our immediate neighbours, for pensions, as a percentage of GDP, even half as much as our neighbours. Please tell me what the money was spent on last year, and it will also take this year and next years! And what, then, can we call out spending more than our neighbors?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U223	Thank you. We really spend quite a lot of money on culture as a percentage of GDP. When we look at how much we go to museums and so on, we see that we're doing almost everyone with a long tree. But we can still spend as much money as we have. The existing firm frameworks and the social sector are quite close to half. At the same time, we have very strong priorities in place: defence and education. I wouldn't say we're directly short of money. Our task is to distribute the money we have as wisely and efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U224	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U225	Thank you. We have committed ourselves to spending a minimum of 2% of GDP on defence. We have preached it all over the world to all our allies, but the reality is, unfortunately, completely different. GDP for 2017 was higher than forecast and therefore the percentage for defence remained lower. This figure was exactly 1.92%. I've never heard of it being compensated for by the armed forces in any way. And we are talking about tens of millions of euros here. Isn't that how we cheat on our allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U226	Thank you. I'm sure you won't. When drawing up the budget, our economic forecasts will still be taken into account. They're the basis. And in the budgets, that percentage has been over two. If GDP grows faster than expected, then we might actually find out afterwards that this percentage is lower. But every year, our national defence has received tens of millions more than last year, and we can be sure that this amount will increase. I think this area should certainly not be complained about. Yes, everyone always thinks there could be more money, and there are always a lot of good ideas where it needs to be spent, but again: our budget is as big as it is. The frames are in the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U227	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I really feel sorry for you if you can only give two examples of what you call government success when you talk about preparing for worse times. We are talking about government tax policy and low-paid people. As Arto Aas very nicely pointed out, this is actually one of the main reasons that has led to the large-scale payment of envelope wages, which has also been very unambiguously confirmed by the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, I would, of course, like to refer to excise policy, which you have also spoken of as a success story. In my opinion, this is, without any doubt, the biggest phobia of all, if we give Latvia 200 million euros a year. Well, maybe in the anniversary year, it's a gift from our government to Latvia, but what's the reason for giving this money to Latvia next year? I find that difficult to explain. Are you willing to at least admit that the government's excise policy ♪ fuel excise policy, alcohol excise policy ♪ has been completely unsuccessful?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U229	Thank you. I certainly do not agree that when we talk about reducing the tax burden, it is bad because someone may be paid more envelope wages. We don't know if that's the reason. Perhaps the reason is that the economy is growing faster than expected. And when the economy grows, there is always an increase in the share of envelope wages, because a large part of all wages and bonuses is unfortunately paid in the envelope. We do not have the precise clarity that has led to the high share of envelope wages, and so there is no point in putting this on the reduction in the tax burden we have made. When you talk to Latvia about giving 200 million euros, I always wonder where these numbers come from. We have had an average of 240 million euros in alcohol excise duties for seven or eight years and now we have 240 million euros. If 200 million is right, we're supposed to be $40 million. At the same time, the collection of Latvian alcohol excise duty is smaller than that of Estonia. If we compare these numbers, we'll see that somehow doesn't add up. Every person understands that. When we talk more broadly about the impact of the economy on increasing excise duties, I agree that the decisions taken by the previous and previous coalition several years ago were not quite correct. The main problem with border trade is the excise duty on strong alcohol. The current coalition did not increase it at its own pace; rather, we have reduced the rates proposed by the previous coalitions. So you can't blame everything for the coalition now. We have reduced the excise duty on diesel and we cannot say that this has been the wrong step. It is true that the decision made by the previous coalitions was changed. Don't put everything on this coalition! Rather, we could all look in the mirror and think about what we've done wrong and learn from it. When I was here in the Riigikogu and asked if excise increases had an impact on the wider economy, I got the answer that it is not that we are talking about health and everything is fine. I'd rather learn from those lessons! When things are crossed, let us look in the mirror rather than point fingers at each other!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U230	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U231	Thank you. However, when I talk about real estate, I would like to make a comment to the Ministry of Finance and the Minister. When a large ministry building was built, it was argued that the existing buildings were morally and physically obsolete, with inefficient energy and space use. That's why it was like moving in together, and it's been like a success story of moving in together. But it has been absurd and illogical to keep these houses empty and not until a year and a half later to start returning the officials. But that's it. I also want to talk about excise duties, specifically fuel excise. Indeed, it is strange that Sven Sester, the finance minister of the previous government, has made such a mistake with these forecasts, but it is difficult to predict. I would rather ask whether it has been a conscious decision that investment in the budget of both state roads and local roads will decrease as a ratio. And in fact, these sums will also decrease nominally next year quite abruptly. Is it somehow random, or is it an informed choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U232	Thank you. Investments in the road network are increasing. Perhaps there is a slight decline in the maintenance of local roads. And we are talking about the 2017 summary report, however, we are not dealing with the 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U233	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U234	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was very pleased to hear that you mentioned culture as one of the areas which is financed, say, by the state budget. Please mention here the percentage of GDP spent on culture last year. We know that in the field of culture, one of the lowest wages is paid by highly educated workers. And there are other areas of concern. What is this particular percentage that reflects this preferential development, as you said?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U235	I'm not gonna say the exact percentage around here, so I'm sure we can send it to you. I said that when we look at the share of GDP, we see that culture is actually relatively well funded. Yeah, small wages are a problem, but there's another problem. If there are many people on the payroll in this area, there is simply no money left. It is all connected, and it must simply be used as efficiently as possible. Culture is certainly very important to us and will remain so.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U236	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U237	Thank you. Good minister! It is very important to set goals to be pursued. The budget shall always include targets to be met. Now that we're looking at the goals, the opening image is pretty ugly. First of all, there are a number of objectives that have long been met, such as higher employment rates. I don't know why such goals are set. There are objectives for which results are not measured, or more precisely they are so rarely measured that there is no possibility of comparison. We have here one table and another table that one or the other indicator is last measured in 2014. What information does this give us about the results of 2017? And thirdly, more and more progress is being made towards the objectives, which are worsening year-on-year results. Let me just give you an example. The average increase in road traffic as an average of three years is getting worse. What have you done or are you planning to do to make these things realistic?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U238	Thank you. I don't think it's bad if there are goals and metrics, whether we like it or not. We're talking about the year 2017. If it has been the case that for five or six years the essence of the economy is stagnation in place, some call it stagnation period, then it was certainly not wrong to set metrics for the employment rate by 2017. If, for example, any ratios were last measured in 2014, the new coalition is not guilty of failing to measure results in the meantime. When the new coalition came to power, he set new goals. I think that this set of goals is in the right direction in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U239	Maris Lauri, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U240	Thank you. Good minister! I didn't actually get an answer to my question. We are talking about 2017 for which the budget was in the debate at the end of 2016. Even then, the objectives were not realistic. The reality is that the budget was the errors I referred to. I asked what you were doing to make things better. It can now be said that the budget for next year, which we are still working on here, has not improved. When will you start working to ensure that the objectives set are substantive and realistic? Once the targets have been achieved three or four years ago, something else should be replaced. When are you going to deal with this and how?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U241	Thank you. We are talking today about the 2017 budget, not the future budget. Objectives need to be set and set. If a goal is achieved more quickly, it does not mean that everything is bad. I'd rather be good. So on this point, I do not understand the question, if the problem is that we have achieved some goals faster than planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U242	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is of a less lyrical nature. When you referred here earlier to complaints about excise policy, you became quite passionate in your response to them. And that's why I'm asking. The Minister of Finance is actually the spiritual leader of fiscal policy, isn't he? If you did not have a coalition agreement and other binding commitments relating to the budget, what would you change in the policy of budget making and, say, in the content and form of the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U244	Thank you. I think that budgeting is already moving in the right direction, with target-based budgeting. Not that we take a large amount of money, we distribute it, and then afterwards we say whether it was right or wrong, and sometimes the results are not measured at all. We have clear objectives for which to move, and we will allocate money according to them. Is it the money of our taxpayer or the money of the Structural Funds, it doesn't matter. It is not the case that one money can be viewed worse and thought that it can be mutilated, and the other one is more valuable. That's our direction. I think the policy that we have had in recent decades is right. The fact that we are taxing consumption is in itself the right direction. But yes, if at some point it goes too far, then what happens is that people literally run over the line, as has happened as a result of alcohol excise policy. Once again, let's learn from these mistakes! Let's make it so that the next time someone in the Riigikogu Hall is wondering if excise policy has any major economic implications just I asked when I was a member of the Riigikogu, we will discuss these issues, not only about health, and then we will say that others are guilty.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U245	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U246	Good manager! Good waitress! To clarify my colleague's question, I ask you: have I understood correctly, Thomas, that if there were no other coalition partners, there would not be such excise duties in the 2017 Annual Summary Report if there were now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U247	If I had been the Minister of Finance of the new coalition at the time, there would certainly not be such increases in excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U248	Thank you, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. No further questions for you. As rapporteur for the Committee on Finance, I would like to ask Mr Stalnukhin, the chairman of the committee, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U249	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance dealt with this item on two days: 25 September and 12 November. On 25 September, we had a visit with Regina Vällik, adviser to the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance. He took stock of this summary report and the same figures as in the introductory speech: for example, inflation of 3.75%, employment growth of 2.2% and average wage growth of 6.5%. Pretty much everything was the same. A short debate followed. The first question was how the composition of the staff at the sickness fund and the unemployment fund changed. It was explained that some of the employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs have been transferred to the unemployment fund in connection with the changes. My colleague Aivar Sõerd asked about reserves. This was not answered exhaustively on the spot by the advisor, and I later proposed that we be sent a written review with more or less all the interests in it. I've got it right here, it's on three pages. The members of the Finance Committee received it as an e-mail and hopefully it will also be available to all other members of the Riigikogu. There was still talk of bridge financing, and that was the end of the session. The next time we discussed the matter with the Auditor General, Mr Holm, and this debate was, in a way, much more interesting. At some point, the issue of the form of the state budget was raised. In short, the question is that, for decades now, every government, every coalition, has been trying to do everything to make the state budget more transparent, easier to read and so on. But people like me who've been watching it for 20 years in a row say there's no comparison. In 1999, the draft state budget looked like any person with secondary education would have understood it. At the moment, it looks like even economists with higher education do not always understand what is fixed there. And it's not just the mistake of the current government. It's been this way over the years, always changing, changing, and changing. In the meantime, we even recalled the report of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, which was once dealt with by Kristjan Kõljalg, where all the members of the Riigikogu who said their opinion confirmed that they wanted the state budget to change. But it ended with nothing that's changed. And if anything changes, it's the bad side again. We also recalled that years ago the National Audit Office handed us the 1938 state budget of the Republic of Estonia. It was a copy of it as a book. The aim was to show how readable and easily understandable a single financial document could be. Yes, 80 years have passed, but it can be said that a good experience is a good experience even 800 years later. By the way, the National Audit Office promised us that the current Committee on Monetary Affairs would also receive this 1938 state budget book at its disposal so that it could be viewed. Why did I stop for so long? In fact, I think there is a certain consensus. We now see that the absolute majority of members of the Riigikogu, including members of the Monetary Committee, who are either in this coalition or have been in the previous coalition, are not satisfied with the form of the budget. This raises the question of how it could have changed in this way. At a certain point, it is necessary to ask whether to go back. There have been many positives in the past. What is needed is this hard - to - read document, where even a specialist takes a long time to read something out, if he can even understand it. Maybe it's time to go back and introduce the form that used to be and everyone understood. Janar Holm and I also talked about government reserves, assets. I've got the chart, if anyone cares, I'll bring out the numbers. One issue was the question of retired police officers. We have a labour shortage in the police department and we need arrangements for paying them a special pension along with their salary. Then some of those who are entitled to a special pension would remain in work and the problem of the frame could be solved. It was pointed out that Statistics Estonia has reported that the nominal deficit, which is not specified in the 2017 budget, is 0.3% of GDP. The National Audit Office has noted that the structural fiscal position of the general government was 0.7% of GDP in 2017 according to the latest assessment by the Ministry of Finance. They asked if it was final or if it was still changing. It was replied that Statistics Estonia would provide an initial estimate by the end of March, based on the balance sheet. In September, they will present a new assessment based on already audited data, but it may not be final, either. The question was now asked about the budgetary balance rule in force in the European Union and they wanted to know what the limit was set for Estonia in breach of this rule. The reply was that the European Commission would assess the draft budget and indicate if the country had not met its objectives. The European Commission has now announced that there are no irregularities in the Estonian budget. The National Audit Office was asked to comment on the view that the health system should be made more efficient by cleaning up the hospital network and was asked to know whether this also means closing hospitals. The answer was, on the one hand, that it is possible to say that more money should be given, and, on the other hand, that it is possible to think about how to manage more effectively. Rather, large centres could be more effective in providing medical care. There was an interest in investment in education and a wish to know whether the education sector needed to be reorganized. It was said that the National Audit Office based its report on the latest audits. There is still room for more rational use of resources in the education system. As far as the school network is concerned, there are quite a number of teaching positions in Estonia. There must have been a teacher for seven students if my memory doesn't fool me. There are many issues to be addressed in this area. According to the National Audit Office, the state's economic transactions have been carried out in a substantial part in accordance with the State Budget Act of 2017 and the State Budget Act of the same year. Now I would like to say a few more words to Mr Põldaru about the phrase that 'in the essential part' the report is correct. When, for the first time in my life, I prepared to approve the decision of the auditor's report in the City Council of Narva in 2003, reading the wording that everything is right in a substantial part, I also felt exactly the same interest as if, in a small part, it was not right. And it was explained to me that it's just such a use of words. An auditor protects himself when, for example, he is reviewing the use of EUR 60 million from the city's budget for the whole amount, but there is a mistake that happens to be linked to a EUR 1000 transaction. This mistake is not so important that it takes a chance for him to say that everything is broadly correct. So it's kind of a typical word usage. At the end of the session, four decisions were taken by consensus: to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur, to offer the Bureau a first reading on 14 November, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U250	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much. I will open negotiations for the political groups. Aivar Sõerd, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U251	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The item we are discussing is the country's consolidated annual report for 2017. Let's just say that as an accounting document it is properly prepared by national accountants, technically complies with state accounting rules. In this sense, the country's accountants have done a good job. But when we look at its contents, we see that the largest part of the annual report for 2017 is the subject of the state budget. It is also the first year of the current government's budget. Clearly, this financial year, as the music says, was given to tone at the end of 2016 the coalition's first major step through the comprehensive package of tax changes and, in particular, the excise increases that have already come in 2017. If you remember, we were promised to bring the economy to growth. Well, the economy is growing, but the pace of growth is slowing down. But what's accelerating is definitely rising prices. The price increases in Estonia are very painful and the euro area is the highest. It is also clear today that much of these increases are caused by the so-called increase in administrative prices. It is a regulated price component of the state, i.e. an increase in taxes. And when we talk about rising energy prices on the world market and rising food prices on the world market, these global price increases also affect other countries, but yet we are at the forefront of our price increases in Europe. Then on: one of the consequences of these increases in excise duty is, of course, border trade. To date, its scope is unprecedented. We can say that there is border trade elsewhere, between Denmark and Germany and wherever else. We will not find border trade on such a scale anywhere else in Europe. The Minister went back to 2016 or even 2015. Well, we have numbers and other statistics! In 2016, border trade was non-existent compared to what we currently have. And if I remember these numbers correctly, this year, compared to what was planned in the budget and what is actually coming, there is a difference of 216 million. It is true that this is not just because of Latvian border trade; it is also because of the reduction in Finnish purchases. However, the biggest problem is, of course, the border trade in Latvia. And it's not easy to reverse that shit that was turned back with the tax changes in 2017. It's gonna take a lot of years to sort this shit out. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U252	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U253	So, then, the 2017 budget was negative, immediately in each position minus: structurally 0.7%, nominally 0.4% of GDP. The reserves decreased, the cash flow of the State was negative. However, it was a good year for growth. I think it was my colleague, Urve Tiidus, who asked that, in addition to the liquidity reserve, the government has two basic reserves, a stabilisation reserve and a liquidity reserve, we still have an unemployment fund and a health insurance fund reserve. Now, that could have been explained by the minister, but he didn't, maybe he didn't. In particular, the unemployment fund and the sickness fund reserve are included in the liquidity reserve. If you look at this annual report, you will see that as of 31 December 2017 various institutions had deposited EUR 1.2 billion with the Treasury, the largest being the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund, but it was only 743 million of this money. So the money deposited by other persons was so much spent with the Treasury. I'd like to sum up this financial year like this. In the morning, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, a colleague asked the National Auditor that please tell us whether there was anything positive in 2017. The State Auditor said that the state worked. He also gave an example of a work capacity reform, which was, of course, initiated by the previous government, and also of the fact that the police would receive additional money. It's all great. But I would like to sum up my speech and the financial year 2017 with three keywords. Unparalleled, large-scale border trade, fiscal and tax policies led to the fastest price increases in Europe and thirdly, while in good times reserves were not collected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U254	Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U255	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U256	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U257	Thank you. I don't know how clear it is what I'm going to say right now. I will do my best, and I hope you understand this message. In 2000, I visited the parliament with Toomas Sav and three other members of the Riigikogu in Ukraine. In the High Level, in the Ukrainian Parliament, we also had a chance to speak with the Members of Parliament. We were sitting there, and Thomas Savi asked me, but who are these countrymen? In fact, two very young men sat right across from us and immediately saw a very strong man. I didn't know who they were. They didn't look like the ambassadors at all. I called an interpreter, it was a comrade who went everywhere with us and asked who they were. And he said they were bodyguards. It was a space in a parliament building and Ukraine was an absolutely peaceful country 18 years ago. We were wondering, for God's sake, what are they doing here? Two parliaments will meet here, Estonia and Ukraine. Why do these bodyguards have to sit in front of our speaker? It was explained to us that on the left there are Eastern Ukrainen ambassadors from Donetsk, Odessa, etc., and on the right there are ambassadors from Western Ukraine. We don't want them fighting in front of you. That would be quite a shame, but they can do it. And so that they don't get into a fight, there are two bodyguards sitting between them. When this visit was about to end, the same interpreter asked me if you're from different parties, you're talking the same thing, you're like a gang. Yeah, there were five of us, and everyone was from different parties. And we explained to him that the most important thing for us is the success of the country. It is understandable to us that if you attack a country beyond its borders, it will be of absolutely no use. It is our economy that can suffer. And this is where it should be understood. We can all look for and find some trouble that has happened in our economic life in one year or another. I would remind you of the words of one of the prime ministers: 'We do not need a transit. ' You know what happened to the transit sector after that? Do you know how many companies in this field have gone bankrupt? How many missing transit carriers? That is what one person said, but what enormous damage was caused to the country! I don't think anyone's put it together, but it's in billions. A few years later, other people in this room said we didn't need that gas pipe. Let them go somewhere far away with their pipe! The Finns and the Swedes who said before, that, of course, ecology, environment, we protect it, we don't give them permission, maybe they gave permission. Now they have investments, they have extra jobs, they have revenues for transiting gas in the state budget. And we're suffering again. And here too, it makes sense to talk about billions. For God's sake, there is always a chance to show your political face and take one or the other decision. You're human, and we're all human. There are no angels here, there are not those who are not mistaken. We all have the chance to make a mistake, as strange as it may seem. I imagine that GDP could now be 28 to 29 billion if there had been transit and if there was a gas pipeline on our territory. But you're gonna be talking about border trade! Some things need to be digested, they need to be memorized, they need to draw conclusions and they need to stop chewing at the end of the day. It doesn't mean anything. We're doing a job here. You're talking about the goals of the current government. They're exactly the same as the last government. Hopefully, all governments want to make progress, want to make it easier and better for the Estonian people to live here. I do not see a major problem with this particular decision at the moment. Of course, this recapitulative statement corresponds to reality. I'm just asking you to be a little more self-critical. When we start recalling who has made the mistakes and who has made them, it suddenly turns out that the damage caused by excessive excise duty, including border trade, is not at all comparable to the damage otherwise caused to the country and its economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U258	There are no more requests to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 694. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 28 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U259	Now we have an overview by the Auditor General of the use and preservation of state assets in 2017-2018. § 155 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu provides for the following procedure: first, the presentation by Auditor General Janar Holm is up to 30 minutes; next questions will be submitted to the rapporteur. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Representatives of the political groups will be able to speak during the negotiations. Please, Auditor General Janar Holm!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U260	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Estonia is richer than ever. This year, 40 times more money is available to the Riigikogu and the government to promote Estonia's life than 25 years ago. This has been an extraordinary development. The national budget of EUR 256 million in 1993 has now become EUR 10.6 billion. Nearly a tenth of this has been provided to support us by taxpayers from other European countries. If you believe in the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, the Estonian state budget will exceed 12 billion euros in four years' time. I can confirm the words of the Minister of Finance that this money is properly accounted for in the accounts, and last year's economic transactions in the country were substantially in line with the state budget law. It is clear that centralisation has had a very good effect on the state's level of accounting. Local authorities could therefore switch to a similar solution. This would improve the quality of accounting, especially in a situation where there is a shortage of good specialists. Yes, it is certainly good to know that our common tax billions papers are in order and that the work is correct. But more complicated are the stories of understanding what the state spends money on and why it affects Estonia's development. The annual State Budget Act is increasingly less understandable and informative. I will address this issue in greater detail today, because in recent weeks alone, many members of the Riigikogu have expressed their concern at this development in the committees. And this from both the opposition and the coalition. The problem is long overdue and for years the National Audit Office has shared Parliament's and the public's concerns that there must be thorough accounting knowledge and much time to understand the state budget in order to compare the wide range of financial materials. In recent times, however, this is no longer enough for the generalisation and technicality of the State Budget Act to be so large that no one can see the prodigies of accounting in one row or another. In the Riigikogu Question Time a week ago, the chairman of the Special Committee on Audit of the State Budget showed eloquently that the budget was not understandable when he asked the Minister of Finance to explain how the expenditure of the state budget was 250 million euros larger than the revenue, but according to the government, the budget is nominally in surplus with 130 million euros. The reply referred to complex accounting rules. Yes, unfortunately, there are no longer times when the money was clear: plus meant plus, that is, that there is money, and minus minus, that is, there is no money. But the state budget should not be just an accounting document; it should provide the basis for management decisions. The budget should be a lever to guide the country's strategic development. Makes you wonder how members of the Riigikogu can use their right to make changes to the state budget law if they wish to do so, if, for example, investments or grants are listed in the law as one of the cost lines of each government budget. In answer to this question, many may say that the expenditure on the state budget has been written out in the explanatory memorandum to the State Budget Act. But here too, there are at least two problems. Firstly, the draft explanatory memorandum does not have the power of law. Secondly, while the explanatory memorandum may identify investments, grants and other costs by body and by object, the government has the full right to allocate money to other objects and bodies, in fact, if mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. This is true if the amounts and lines laid down in the State Budget Act are respected. I agree that flexibility in the use of the budget is certainly needed, so that every little thing does not have to change the law. But sometimes it can be a pretty basic decision. I'll give you an example. In the autumn of three years ago, the government decided to set up two new aviation companies in parallel with the bankruptcy of Estonian Air and to allocate just over EUR 72 million. It is known from the then decrees of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure that the money was originally intended to be given to other companies in the state. There was no error in the State Budget Act because the Riigikogu had given the blanko approval to finance the activities of state companies for a certain amount, without specifying the recipient of the funds and the purpose of the use. But the question remains: should the Riigikogu have taken a position on whether to finance a state airline or to channel this money towards improving, for example, rail, electricity networks or other infrastructure? There is also a problem with the content of the explanatory memorandum and the uneven quality of the information it contains. Although the Ministry of Finance has paid attention to this and the quality has improved, the explanatory memorandum continues to contain cost items whose longer dissipation is questionable due to the small size of the amount. However, there are large amounts of money, the content of which is not sufficiently explained. For example, the explanatory memorandum to the 2019 state budget reveals that two people from the Riigikogu budget are allocated 1300 euros per researcher for parliamentary research scholarships. However, it has not been explained, for example, why Eesti Energia needs EUR 143 million in share capital from the state budget, if it is ultimately an energy company that receives this money, because the state budget law only fixes the corresponding cost on the budget line called 'Growth of Financial Assets'. However, developments have taken place. Five years ago, in the budget explanatory memorandum, for example, one sum of more than EUR 200 million simply said 'Financial transactions' and there was an explanation for 'increasing the share capital of companies'. Why? Or who? Not a word. The comprehension of the State Budget Act and the explanatory memorandum is also linked to the question of how the Riigikogu, the central body of the state's strategic discussions, could participate in the preparation of the state budget as the most important strategic document of the state year. The Ministry of Finance has both expressed in words and in deeds that budget decisions should increasingly be taken in the spring when the country's four-year budget strategy is drawn up. For the state budget to be dealt with in autumn, only details should be specified. On the other hand, it is the Riigikogu that deals with the state budget, not the state budget strategy, which is a government monopoly. According to this approach, the role of the Riigikogu is to deal with the details. In a bit of a euphemism: does this mean that the Riigikogu is discussing a document whose fundamental content has actually been decided? Should the role of the Riigikogu in the budget be limited to essentially so-called regional investments? The question of options. The budgetary picture, which has become increasingly incomprehensible and technical year after year, is increasingly representative of a way of thinking, which hinders the making of substantive decisions and, unfortunately, is not based on ordinary simplicity, clarity and comprehension. Why is this all so? But because, in fact, the Riigikogu itself has decided so. I would suggest here how the Riigikogu could play a more substantive role in shaping the budget and giving feedback. In the Riigikogu, joint public sessions of the Monetary Commission and the Sectoral Commission could take place every autumn, with ministers, ministerial leaders, chancellors, deputy chancellors and executives giving an overview of the situation, plans and financing needs. On this basis, the Riigikogu could express its opinion to the government on the budgetary strategy and budget to be drawn up for the next year. For example, it could be said that there is no need for one or the other programme and that money should be diverted elsewhere. By the way, such hearings took place in the Estonian Parliament in the 20th years of the last century, when the executive power was not yet in a dominant position. The National Audit Office is ready to help the parliament from its own experience in order to find together a form for the budget and its explanatory statement that would be understandable and used for real work, both for members of the Riigikogu and for the public. This is particularly important now that the budget from 2020 should be activity-based. Whether the activity-based budget is really clearer and better can be decided by everyone when looking at the next year's budget for the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education. Good listeners! I now come from the drafting of the state budget to reporting. As I was referring to, we have our accounts in order. But what does this knowledge or the summary report of the state's financial year in its current form give a member of the Riigikogu? Are they helpful in making strategic decisions in the budgetary process or in dealing with drafts? While the activity report, which forms part of the summary report, contains key developments in the field, changes in the values of indicators and changes in the state's initiatives and activities, they have nothing to do with money or people at the same time. This report, rather from an accounting point of view, does not provide much insight into the results of the work carried out by one institution or another. I'll give you a fresh example. A week ago, an independent weekly newspaper reported that Ugala's theatre made a profit of 4.4 million euros last year, while the biggest loss was on the Estonian Drama Theatre. The sheet thus interpreted the table in the summary report for the financial year. The Ministry of Culture was forced to explain that all this was actually an accounting illusion. The 4.4 million recorded in the report's revenue line reflects the fact that Ugala completed the renovation last year and the value of the house increased in accounting. The result of the unrehended Estonian Drama Theatre was a major depreciation of the building. This information doesn't indicate anything about the theaters' work. The time of submission of the summary report to the Riigikogu is also important. For example, the report on last year is now, in November, an interesting research subject for those interested in accounting archeology, but not for others. However, for those who see the state budget and related documents as management information, a meaningful overview of the use of money would be needed before the preparation and discussion of the national budget strategy begins. However, even then, this information could only have an impact from the following year. While I proposed listening to ministers and others when designing the budget strategy, the Riigikogu could organise similar hearings on the use of budget money to explain what leaders have achieved with the money allocated to them for the same year. In reality, it is already clear every autumn what has been done and what will be done for the future. It would probably make sense to review the budgetary strategy of the country as a whole and the timetable for drawing up the state budget, as well as the reporting schedule. The members of the Riigikogu have said a lot about changing the timetable in addition to the concern about the comprehension of the state budget. Rethinking would also be necessary in view of the needs of the Riigikogu in the sense of the current presentation of the state's annual report, as well as the activities of the National Audit Office in the field of financial audits. That's what we're doing. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, it is noteworthy that revenue from the state budget has increased by 66% in ten years. Money has grown a lot, but only money does not manage the country and concerns are not solved. It is not clear how to solve a whole range of problems relating to the country's core tasks and affecting everyone closely. These are real-life problems. This year's Annual Review of the National Audit Office has addressed a problem that directly affects several people, which is waiting for a systemic solution. Let the thoughts of the report on pension insurance, health care systems, systems of support for working capacity and internal security indicate what should actually be done. It is certainly not possible to say that nothing has been done or done. It's done, and it's actually done. For example, there have been many disputes about the health system or the pension system and certain solutions have also been reached, but they have provided temporary relief rather than a long-term solution. Just as repairing a wired electric cap does not solve problems in the electrical system, it is not possible to solve the systemic problems of the country by simply applying a patch to places where tensions first occur. The patch can, of course, also help in certain cases, but not for very long. Can't the central government, can't or dare to make big changes anymore? At first glance, it seems that the central government has been, and continues to be, very demanding of reform. A refreshing quick search for memory in information systems provided a long list of reforms in the present and the recent past: administrative reform, state reform, reform of state administration, reform of pharmacies, data protection reform, reform of the school network, upper secondary school reform, reform of Russian education, energy reform, oil shale taxation reform, work capacity reform, reform of the parental benefit system, reform of the system of maintenance support, reform of replacement care, reform of the real beneficiaries, reform of flexible employment relationships, reform of career services, reform of greenhouse gas quotas, reform of the financing of sport, reform of the integrated asylum system, etc. It seems that every furnace is holding enough fire to prevent the pipes from freezing in the house, but no room is heated in such a way. Instead of resolving the problem, intermediate measures will delay the strong emergence of the problem, but systemic problems remain. True, many of them are difficult to solve. But the only way is to deal with them. In particular, it is necessary to ensure the functioning of the country's core tasks, not one thousand and one thing at a time, without completing one, starting with the other, by fragmenting attention and resources. Your former colleague and multiple minister, Rector of TalTech Jaak Aaviksoo, said at the conference 'UX to the future' last week: 'If we seriously review everything we have promised our people as public services, it is simply not possible to offer it at a modern, high-quality level, no matter how effective we will make this system. " The academic is right. Choices must be made and the ability to say no must be strengthened. We will need this skill soon, because the Estonian state will depend on the European Union's subsidies, which will start to decrease. For example, almost half of the state budget investment is made through external grants. The National Audit Office has recommended to be prepared in good time for the reduction of subsidies and to draw up an action plan for this purpose. Although the Minister of Finance promised that the country's budget strategy for the years 2019 to 2022 would describe how the aid is being prepared for the reduction, this has not been done. In my view, it is not a very convincing excuse that we do not yet know exactly what and how much can be financed according to the rules of the new period. At one point, however, a decision must be made which must be abandoned in the event of a reduction in subsidies. The problem with Estonia is not so much that there is too little money to make good thoughts come true. The problem is that the state system circulates too much of the thoughtless ideas that are being thrown into the public space and is about to be rapidly implemented. There are ministries where people are scared Monday because there is no way of knowing which ideas the management will return from the weekend and what must be done in the new week to be on the news. It is important that in the new electoral cycle, in addition to the wonderful and costly new solutions, attention and money should also be given to the major problems that have been waiting for years to be resolved, so that at least some of them can be resolved. As was the case with administrative reform, for example. For many, it was too little, and it was too late, but it did. Whoever was there knows it didn't come easy. Appreciation for those who did it! It is early to talk about final results, but surely those doomsday publishers who predicted that local life would stop after reform were wrong. Good listeners! How can maintaining the state be made more affordable in a situation where the population is shrinking and society is ageing and many of the country's core tasks are already facing challenges? You can't get past the word'state reform' here. It seems that everyone in Estonia has their own state reform. The concept of state reform itself has become ambivalent. In the meantime, it seemed that any idea concerning the normal self-regulation of the central government could be put to the head of state reform, thereby increasing the weight of trivial changes, while at the same time reducing the weight of state reform as a concept. The State Reform Package of the Ministry of Finance has also done great things, such as the administrative reform already mentioned and the abolition of the level of rural governments. However, it is somewhat incomprehensible what is now the essence of the reform of the state. Even the National Reform Radar gave up the evaluation of the government's activities in the spring because, due to the lack of strategic decisions, it was no longer possible to understand what development should be assessed. Rather, there are substitute activities. How could the state operate more effectively? When the State Reform Foundation set up by the entrepreneurs came up with its objectives and plan in May, there was quite a lot of hope that this institution would contribute to an active debate on what the state is responsible for and what the state should offer and give up. Because if the aim is to reduce public expenditure and also to solve real problems for people, then the task of the state is to start with the first question. Riina Varts, a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Reform Foundation, has rightly emphasised in Postimees a week ago that we should not start by reducing the administration or merging institutions. Varts believes that first we need to make clear where we want to go and then see how we reach the goal, what we need to do. Alar Karis, a member of the Supervisory Board of the National Reform Foundation, my predecessor in the office of Auditor General of the State, has given him seconds: 'It is necessary to thoroughly review the many responsibilities and obligations of the state towards its people, what to do differently, what not to do at all, based on the content. See how many people are needed to carry out these tasks. Where there are people over, but also where people are missing and where more should be taken in order to complete the tasks. ' The proposals published by the Foundation seem to have an important emphasis on the internal organisation of the state apparatus. There are several proposals that the National Audit Office supports and has dealt with in its audits in the past, such as organising the layers of agencies, inspections and foundations. The necessity of the tasks of all sub-offices must be assessed. Policy-making tasks must be concentrated in ministries. The topic of state foundations and other sub-offices will definitely be addressed by the National Audit Office in the future. The problem is that despite the proliferation of public foundations, which are known, they tend to grow in intensity. The establishment of foundations is a government right, but the tasks of all proposed foundations should be carefully considered. Is there really a need for a separate foundation to achieve the objectives set, such as family or constitutional law, or could it be done with the help of existing institutions? It is in this context that it would be welcome for the National Reform Foundation, alongside forward-looking proposals, to analyse and evaluate, as far as possible, the processes that are taking place in the present. The ideas of those taking the lead in a foundation born on a private initiative would certainly diversify the thought picture. The word'state reform' can be very different in terms of content and meaning. I think that defining state reform, vision, desire for allegiance should not become a matter of self, of looking for a kind of spunk from a high and far away, even though he may be right here. It is appropriate to quote from Eesti Päevaleht, where the journalist Raimo Poom wrote last week, in the context of the elections: 'Everyone would like to live in an ideal world where major problems with the future will be solved. The reality is, however, that the voter lives today and wants solutions to everyday problems. ' Here, perhaps, is the answer to the question of what kind of state reform people expect from the central government. People expect the state to give them confidence in the present and the future and help them if they cannot cope with their own problems and at other times do not interfere. For people, state reform is about solving these real-life problems. People also care whether it is called a state reform or otherwise and whether it is called something at all. They want a result, a real result that they can feel in their lives. In other words, when dealing with the internal issues of the state apparatus, people's daily lives should not be left behind. It should not be forgotten that the state has so-called core tasks relating to the human life cycle. It is a kind of state tasks of the Maslow pyramid. Unfortunately, it is mostly much easier and more interesting to deal with topics at the top of the pyramid than with those at the bottom. But this is the bottom part of the foundation. And if you don't deal with it, at some point there might be nothing left to lean on at the top of the pyramid. Involuntary or inability to deal with the country's core tasks feeds uncertainty in society. Uncertainty, however, is the best source of nourishment for distrust, disappointment, bitterness, anger, extremism. If we can give people confidence by solving real-life problems, it can be a greater force for the development of our society than we can possibly imagine at first. Good listeners! On behalf of the National Audit Office, I thank the members of the Special Committee on Auditing the National Audit Office for their very constructive cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U261	Aivar Sõerd opens a circle of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U262	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Auditor General! I thank you very much for this in-depth report, and especially for the part about the lack of clarity about the state budget. Things have really got worse here, and we also dealt with it thoroughly in the Commission. But I have a question that the Minister of Finance, either knowingly or unaware, or because he does not understand things, systematically fails to comply with both sensible recommendations and legal recommendations. For example, using the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund or your proposal to set rules for determining the size of the Stabilisation Reserve or to set out a strategy for exiting EU funds. He simply fails to comply with the guidelines given by the Riigikogu and which have been given by the National Audit Office. Have you met the Minister of Finance, and if so, what has he told you, justifying his omissions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U263	Thank you for your question. We have not talked about this issue. Of course, the recommendations and suggestions of the National Audit Office are not mandatory for the Minister. As regards the issues you have raised, the Minister of Finance himself has constructively promised to comply with these recommendations or to achieve these objectives. It's just not done. But we haven't stopped at all. It would be better to ask him why.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U264	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U265	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Auditor General! I would like to ask you about the area of education that you did not mention in your presentation. While in general the Estonian state makes a good contribution to education as a percentage of GDP, we have been criticised for the fact that too much money is going to support the school network and too little money is going to contribute to the staff. It is good practice that more than half of the money could go to cover staff costs. What have been the developments in this regard in recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U266	Thank you for your question. Developments have been in the right direction, but this relationship has continued to be too much in favour of the so-called 'carp costs', i.e. economic costs, compared to Finland, which has been set as an example for us in the past. Thus, in the education system itself, there is still a resource to raise teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U267	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Good Auditor General! Thank you for that review. Let me ask you a more general question. The National Audit Office has repeatedly and repeatedly drawn attention to the same problems. I bring out two problems: the use of the unemployment fund and the health fund's reserves to deal with the liquidity problems in the country, although this is not in accordance with the law at all, and the lack of a strategy to withdraw from the euro. And this is despite the fact that you, Chancellor of Justice, have repeatedly pointed it out, and the Riigikogu has also done so. That's what makes me feel like my hands are falling on my lap, and everything is like water on a goose's back, and nothing changes. I understand that it is not your job to say this now, but I do have a question in this light: what should be done to make such situations change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U269	Thank you. The task of the National Audit Office is to draw attention to these problems, but the employer of ministers is the Riigikogu. So here, yes, it is the responsibility of the National Audit Office to continue to highlight the problems that we believe need to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U270	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U271	Thank you, manager. Dear National Audit Office! In some ways, I repeat the previous question. What mechanisms does the National Audit Office still have to ensure that your complaints and attention managements are taken into account? Next year, you'll probably be back in the remote again. What can you do so that you do not have to repeat them again? The same exit strategy for EU funding, for example. And I didn't know one thing about your report. You said that if the executive was not yet in the dominant role... Is there any explanation in that sentence that a complaining story sounds like a little exaggeration to deaf ears?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U272	Thank you. When I was talking about the dominant role, I meant the state budget process. After all, it is clear that the state's budget strategy is dealt with by the Government of the Republic and later discussed and approved by the Riigikogu. As I referred to in my speech, there are many places where the Riigikogu can play a more decisive role. With regard to the first part of your question, what to do, I assure you that there is complete institutional continuity on all these issues. Some of these issues have been addressed by the controllers since 2004 and we will continue to do so. We do not tire of dealing with this issue, and the only solution is, as in the case of a parliamentary state, good cooperation with the Riigikogu in order to resolve these issues. At least within six months of my term of office, we have made very good contact with the Special Committee on State Budget Control and we hope that we will be able to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U273	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U274	Thank you. Mr. Auditor General! You said the changes in the school network were moving in the right direction. But I do know cases where there are changes going in the very wrong direction. Instead of Paide Gymnasium, there is a black hole and there is a broken synergy between vocational and general education. It's going to be delayed, and it's going to be three times more expensive. Somewhere, they're throwing a million to small schools. Russian schools are given preferential funding for an incomprehensible reason. This, of course, is not just a financial issue. And while Paides is doing so, for example, Rae parish is told that the contract signed during our joint work is no longer valid. Rae's gonna lose his school. Have you noticed such things? Can you comment on that? And shouldn't you be examining how it is with the hundreds of millions that were given to clean up the school network for better quality education?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U275	Thank you. The times when you and I worked together at the Ministry of Education are now more than two years behind. But I have really noticed the changes that have taken place since then. Of course, the Ministry and the Government have the right to make their own decisions. As regards whether the National Audit Office should look at the issues mentioned by you, we are now finishing discussions on our work plan. I'm sure we'll see some sort of research into the school network.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U276	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U277	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Thank you for your thorough review. You referred, among other things, to the reduction and, in the longer term, to the disappearance of European Union subsidies. It seems to me that this loss of money is a matter of internal affairs in every ministry. The ministries themselves decide when the new priorities resulting from the reduction of money will be set. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs has decided to postpone this debate to spring, after the elections. How do you feel that the priorities that should be set earlier, which should be reduced and how to reduce the reduction, should not be maintained at the level of the ministries, rather than at the level of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U278	Thank you! As far as future priorities are concerned, as far as I know, the government is constantly discussing them. However, as regards how this exit should be planned and the indication that ministries are doing it on their own, the state finances are managed by the Ministry of Finance. This is one of those processes where someone has to take the lead and set a timetable. However, the responsible ministries must be asked for specific positions for a specific period, suggestions on how to get out of this so-called old period. It's a matter of leadership. If no one's in charge, they're going to make plans on their own, but if the process is being run, it can be done in a coordinated manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U279	Enn Meri.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U280	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Auditor General, you spoke about the state budget and its lack of transparency. I agree more with you on this point. And I ask you as an expert: wouldn't it have made sense to build up some kind of database? I don't know, maybe it already exists. Anyway, it would be good if a member of the Riigikogu could find out the costs-benefits by sector, structure them and get answers? Then we can decide more easily. At the moment, we do not see through the budget and we do not know what we are going to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U281	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of Finance certainly has full information about the budget, there is no doubt about that. If you ask whether it is available to members of the Riigikogu, there is no such solution, as far as I know, but that would certainly be a good one. However, I think that the first step could be if the state budget law itself were one that could be understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U282	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U283	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! I am asking about this action plan, which has been referred to in this Chamber and which you have also paid attention to: how will the Estonian state manage when the European Union's support money ends? If this action plan is being made now or had been done already a year ago, if this government were to agree on a reduction in certain expenditures, could it happen that in 2019, when the Riigikogu elections have taken place, the new government will instead reject this action plan and make a new one? Perhaps he decides to cut the other costs that have so far been incurred through European Union subsidies. Is it reasonable to spend human resources, time, and money so early to make these plans? In fact, there is time, and I think that our government, whatever government comes, is competent and will be able to draw up this agenda in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U284	Thank you for your question. The government is always working on long-term planning. One output is the national budget strategy for four years. So the government also makes future decisions on the budget, and the country's budgetary strategy can also be changed by the next government. Rather, it is a question of confidence. A very large amount of the state's core business is also financed by European Union funds. How does this transition work during a specific period of the national budgetary strategy? Let me give you an example. In the work capacity reform, a very large part of the funding is planned specifically for European funds, and this money will end not in 2022, but already in 2021. It fits within the framework of the country's budgetary strategy. It would be wise to give this assurance what will happen from the moment this money begins to shrink. There are many such areas. This money does not end in 2022, but it already quietly decreases in many areas. It would make sense to create confidence. When we did the audit, the ministries said that it is estimated that 90% of the activities will have to continue, but if it does not currently have coverage in the national budget strategy, then the question is whether this balance position is the right one. It's a question, it might not be a problem. But if there are areas that are not covered and these activities must be continued, this question will in any case arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U285	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U286	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General Janar Holm, thank you for your summary. In some ways, my question continues the previous one. You were talking about a state reform, which is not directly related to the preservation of property, but I really enjoyed this approach. I will now ask from there: how should the reform of the state still take account of and solve real vital problems for people? After all, for years we have had a slogan 'A thin state! ', but I think it's gotten too thin. Second: regional development and regional policy. The problem of the maternity department at Valga Hospital, where all parties indicated that it was a problem of regional policy rather than a financial problem. If we do not want to be a city state or a country of two cities, where do we still find this balance? How would economics, money and, on the other hand, the content and quality that people in particular need be balanced?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U287	Thank you. The state reform, as I understand it, is very closely linked to the way state assets are used and kept. They're in direct connection. The question of a thin or thick country is, in my opinion, bumpy for the citizens of Estonia. He's too many at times, and sometimes he's too few. The goal could be to smooth this surface for people. Well, we'll see if he's thin or fat as long as he meets the needs that people have. My approach to the issue of state reform was that we should not drown in self-regulation, because it does not help very many people. In a far-reaching sense or in a long-term perspective, we could focus on issues, for example, that we discussed in our review of the use and preservation of state assets. In healthcare, for example, the issues should be resolved, not just to alleviate the situation. A lot of work has been done, but it has to be done. Similarly, the problems of pension insurance systems etc. In fact, it is these problems that must be addressed; this is, in our view, a real state reform that concerns people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U288	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Holm, for both the written text and the presentation. In your written review, you very seriously draw attention to our internal security regarding fundamental issues that have arisen before the Police and Border Guard Board. Do you also analyse how the concept of population protection and internal security has been implemented in the first place? Has there been any attention paid to this? It's not just the police and the border guards that can protect them. Does it have complex solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U290	Thank you for your question. Recently, the audit of the National Audit Office was prepared, which is still related to the question of how we can resolve various crisis situations. This audit was prepared, and there we raised a number of issues that are not directly related to the police, but also to the preparedness of hospitals, if anything should happen. We have dealt with this and will continue to address the issue of internal security in many respects.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U291	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U292	Good manager! Good waitress! I would also like to begin by thanking you for a very meaningful presentation and written material. But I read here that funding for the health care system requires additional solutions. Whether the National Audit Office has also discussed that the difference between the funding of the same treatment case for different hospitals may be more than four times if the current analysis of the health insurance fund and the financing of treatment cases is carried out. Plus, what I have noticed is that there is also a very large difference in the price per square metre for new investments in hospitals of different levels. Or the problem is that we're buying very decent equipment, but in some hospitals it's time to use the device 24/7 and in another hospital maybe a few times a week. Isn't there somewhere that money we're looking for all the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U293	Thank you for your question. Yeah, that money's possible in places like this. And that's what we're referring to in our review.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U294	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U295	Thank you. Mr. Holm! My question will be a little more philosophical and will be included in the issue of the state reform that you have raised. In particular, could the mandate given to the circles in the future be considered as part of the issue of the use and preservation of state assets? We know that mandates are a good way to participate in the regime. At the same time, they are increasingly concentrated in larger centres. I am certainly not thinking about a particular person right now, but about the mandate as an opportunity and state property at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U296	Thank you for your question. I think that's a very brave idea. We certainly do not intend to address this issue in the near future within the framework of this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U297	Please, Ain Lutsepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U298	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General! I'm interested in the state of defense. As we know, there is a broad-based concept of national defence in Estonia. On this basis, does the National Audit Office have any plans or tasks, given that the concept of broad-based national defence concerns the administrative areas of a wide range of ministries? Is there an audit to be carried out before working on a new concept of national defence, which will start in 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U299	Thank you for your question. We have had a wide-ranging topic of national defence up in the debate on the work plan. I don't dare tell you how, when and if it even finds a place there. But one thing that we can say empirically is that there is a little confusion about who takes responsibility for the coordination of this issue in substance. As you pointed out, many ministries deal with national defence, but how it is concluded, how a comprehensive and linked concept would actually be created, that is a question. And I dare ask this question without carrying out an audit, in the framework of other audits, if there has been a certain concern in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U300	Dear Auditor General, thank you very much. No further questions for you, although Aivar Chef would like to ask. But we agreed that everyone would ask an oral question. However, it is possible to express an opinion through negotiations; the representatives of the political groups have this opportunity. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party in Inara Luis.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U301	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Auditor General for such a concise presentation, for its important emphasis and for his proposals and recommendations. I would also like to say right now that, according to all these recommendations, the Government of the Republic has already taken action, as the Auditor General said, regarding the pension system and health care arrangements. In my speech, I want to address issues such as economic growth, its prospects and the state budget, which the Auditor General has also paid quite a lot of attention to in his report. Of course, this review also identifies risk areas. One chapter concerns the tax revenue of the state, which actually grows strongly, but also concerns the balance of the state budget, debts and reserves. I'd like to quote a little bit about this report. While the state budget for 2018 had been prepared with the knowledge that the government sector would remain in deficit at EUR 36 million, according to a fresh estimate and also taking into account the 2019 draft state budget, a plus of EUR 154 million will be reached. This change is primarily due to better tax revenue, resulting in a surplus of all government units. In summary, taxes are very well collected and the budgets of both the state budget and local government units are in surplus. Such stable growth is likely to continue in the future. It can be repeated several times. The clear message of the National Audit Office is also that Estonian accounts are in order, so Estonian finances are also in order. In this light, it seems to me that the criticism of opposition politicians, especially the Reform Party politicians, on the whole of economic policy, including taxation and fiscal policy, is more of an outburst than an adequate one. At times, pictures are painted in very dark shades to people, that Estonian finance is about to collapse and the Estonian economy as a whole. When it comes to excise policy, all politicians in the Reform Party always come to the point that tax money stays in Latvia. And may as well paint a picture that the Reform Party, as the whole tax policy is seen only in the excise policy of alcohol. Fortunately, that is not the case. This morning, we sat together with the Special Committee on State Budget Control for a few hours and discussed all the issues presented by the Auditor General on fiscal policy, tax policy and a bit more broadly. We understood that the tax policy of the country, the fiscal policy of the country are not so unambiguous and so simple. There are different methodologies, there are different details, details. If people do not know very well about financial matters, it is, of course, very good to frighten them by saying that the current government is not on the right track, etc. Some time ago, I listened to the public appearance of Kaja Kallas, the leader figure of the Reform Party. He strongly criticised the Government of the Republic and said that the government is turning backwards, is not competent in tax policy, is not competent in fiscal policy. In my opinion, such statements are very childish and very low. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U302	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U303	Why am I talking so boldly here? I think both the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance are of the opinion that tax policy, fiscal policy and general economic policy are well established in the country. How, then, can it be otherwise estimated that the rating agency Fitch has increased Estonia's rating level? This also means that we have the opportunity to bravely resist all the negative effects of the external environment. We have a good and economic policy framework for public finances. At the same time, of course, we agree with the proposals of the Auditor General that we should really develop action plans to deal with when we no longer have the European Union budget for support. It is certainly important that I very much agree with this, that the understanding of the state budget should be improved. It's been talked about for years, it's not the discovery of the last year. We should also be better prepared for crises. The National Audit Office also asked whether to use good times for the collection of reserves or, on the contrary, to add to the cheaply offered loan to make investments. The Ministry of Finance has chosen this very last route because it is financially reasonable to pay back loans and not to increase reserves because the return on reserves is low or even negative. Some experts have supported this idea. Finally, I would like to say that yes, Aivar, in the Commission I asked whether the Auditor General had anything positive to say. And the Auditor General admitted that there is certainly much to say about all things. I want to assure you that the country is in good hands. All the decisions taken are correct in the broad sense and Estonia is on the right track. So you can sleep peacefully at night. Estonia is doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U304	Aivar Sõerd, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U305	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to thank the National Audit Office for the commendable work they have done on the review of the annual report. I would like to start with what the Auditor General started from: this is a question of budgetary transparency. The explanatory memorandum to next year's budget also states in black and white that the Ministry of Finance aims to make the budget more transparent and clearer, but every year we see the opposite: the situation has become worse. We have also made concrete recommendations on how to improve matters, but these recommendations are simply not taken into account. We are even proposing to define the principles for calculating the optimal size of the stabilisation reserve. It is not a question of what the Minister said here, that it is not practical that it is not as if it were not worth setting the ceiling for the stabilisation reserve. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about the principles of optimal size determination. Why it can't be done is completely incomprehensible. And there is also a substantive problem here: the stabilisation reserve is designed to mitigate risks, but its size is now more or less the same as before the previous economic crisis in 2007. But the budget is now EUR 11 billion, and the 2007 budget was EUR 5 billion in today's currency. So the risks have changed considerably. The previous speaker confirmed that the government has taken action. A year ago, the Minister promised that the use of the health insurance fund and the unemployment fund's reserves would be made in line with the law on the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund. But today the minister simply said that he did not know when this bill would come, even though he promised to draw it up a year ago. Or something like that. The Special Committee on State Budget Control issued a guideline to reflect the strategy of exiting EU funds from dependency in the budgetary strategy. It just wasn't done, even though there's a need. But the previous speakers said there was still time, we'll make it, the government will act. There's no time! Some activities become critical already in 2021, as the Auditor General told us this morning. We can see what the government's doing. The result of the government's actions is quite the opposite of what was promised to us. The government promised to bring the economy up. If we look at the forecasts, the economy will grow, but the growth rate will slow. But what's obviously going up is prices. They're crazy in some areas. As I said before, in this respect we are at the top of Europe. So the government is in business. Minister Tõniste also stopped at the border trade for a long time and accused the previous governments. But it was only in 2017 that border trade started to grow rapidly, and it has now reached a level where it is no longer possible to put a stop to it. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U306	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U307	As far as the previous speaker is concerned, the accounts are in order and public finances are in order, they are still completely different things. Accounting is that economic transactions are recorded, but public finances are still shaped by policies. But which policies have shaped it, these results we can see: border trade, price increases and the lack of reserves in good times. After all, Mr Inara, folk wisdom says that in good times, money will be set aside so that it can be used in more difficult times. The fact that we are failing to collect reserves because we have a loan to pay back does not suffer any criticism. We've paid back the loan every year. Even in 2007, more than ten years ago, we paid back more a year than we paid back next year. So it's still very bad about politics. And this isn't some kind of intimidation, we're talking like things are. Once again, border trade and price increases, in particular, border trade and price increases, are still largely a consequence of government policies. But the consequences of us failing to raise reserves in good times, we will see when economic times are more difficult. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U308	Enn Meri on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U309	Mr President! Dear Auditor General, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have Aivar's temperament, and I'm not gonna talk as long as he is. But I want to start by thanking you for this review of this for this very interesting reading! There are some things that we haven't really talked about, but I'd still call them. For example, our pension system, our health care system, there are shortcomings and there must be something absolutely done. It was also good to have received this police situation, which is a very serious problem. But I am now taking this opportunity to ask the Auditor General not to forget in future that our education system must be reviewed, where there is certainly duplication and where the use of money is not always the most meaningful. I am thinking, above all, of the school network. Your field of work is huge! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U310	There's no further call, I'll finish the negotiations. I would like to thank once again the Auditor General and all those who took part in the debate and the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U311	Next item: First reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamme, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U312	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Allow me to present the draft law amending the Animal Protection Act drawn up by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The drafting and submission of the draft act as a matter of urgency was the result of infringement proceedings initiated by the European Commission No 2018/222 on the grounds of insufficient transposition into Estonian law of Directive 2010/63/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The comments submitted by the Commission are essentially of a technical nature and concern problems relating to the wording, the structure of the sentence and the use of expressions not covered by the wording of the directive. In order to take account of the Commission's comments, we want to clarify and supplement the animal protection law in order to bring it into line with the requirements of the directive even more clearly and unambiguously. There are many changes to the draft, but they are rather technical in nature and the provisions can be clarified. I would like to point out the main issues to be amended: the three principles of the Animal Protection Directive, the clarification of the requirement to replace, reduce and improve animal testing; the specification of the permitted objectives and restrictions and procedures for carrying out the animal test; the addition of ancillary conditions to be included in the authorisation for the rearing of experimental animals, the provision of experimental animals and the use of experimental animals; the clarification of the undertaking's obligations in the event that the economic activity of the operator no longer complies with the requirements of the scope of the licence and may have a negative impact on the welfare of the experimental animals; fifthly, the clarification of the requirements laid down for the renewal of the permit, the supply of experimental animals, the use of experimental animals to the personnel of the establishment; sixthly, the provision of a procedure for the evaluation of the animal testing project and the more precise obligations of the person responsible for the animal testing project; seventhly, the specification of the requirements for the renewal of the permit, and eighthly, the specification of the requirements for the ex-post evaluation of the animal testing project. Once again, animals used in animal testing are still protected. The amendments are rather technical and have no significant impact, since the current system of authorisation for an animal testing project is also structured in accordance with the principles of the Directive. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U313	Question from Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U314	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I wondered what kind of animals we're doing these animal tests with. Can you give some examples? Are these animals just mice or is there something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U315	Thank you. The main uses in animal experiments are mice and rats, small amounts of rabbits and guinea pigs. Estonian researchers, for example, are involved in the development of anticancer medicines and anti-Parkinsonian drugs. Studies on wild species, such as wild birds and round muds, carried out in the interest of getting to know these species are also considered animal trials. So most tests are carried out on mice and rats, with little in rabbits and guinea pigs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U316	Minister, thank you very much. Heimar Lenk, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U317	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed this draft law on Monday, 5 November. Most of the members of the Commission were present. Toomas Kevvai, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Katrin Tuula, Counsellor of the Legal Department, had also been invited to the meeting. As the Minister has already said, there are a number of improvements in this document, but they are indeed only linguistic and technical in nature. Toomas Kevvai gave an overview of the draft amendment to the law. He also noted that this draft should be implemented this year so that it would enter into force at the beginning of next year. The main point is that the draft does not substantially change the organisation of animal testing in Estonia and all animal testing permits issued so far remain valid. There were some questions. For example, my colleague, Inara Luigas, asked whether anything would change for companies involved in animal testing. Thomas Kevvai replied that nothing would change for them. The authorisation procedure for animal testing even becomes somewhat simpler, but basically we already have it in place. Our committee chairman, Aivar Kokk, also asked who had been agreed on the draft. Legal adviser Katrin Tuula replied that the bill was distributed to several organisations, but the Estonian Society for Animal Protection and the University of Tartu took part in the coordination. The Member of the Commission, Artur Talvik, asked to explain which animal tests were allowed to be carried out, and the representatives of the Ministry also explained. There was a question about this, too, in this Chamber. And indeed, mostly mice are tested. The minister also mentioned wild birds here. Basically, only blood samples are taken from them, and then the birds are released back into the wild. It is also important in this law that those who perform animal tests must be convinced before they begin to experiment with anything, that nowhere else in Estonia will the same tests be carried out in parallel. The goal is to keep the animals, not to hurt them too much. And that's all the questions. It was proposed to bring this draft to the Riigikogu Hall, to put it on today's agenda. I was appointed rapporteur. It was also proposed to close the first reading of draft 734. That was what we found in the Commission. It was also proposed to set the deadline for amendments to draft 734 in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act 10 working days, 28.11 at 5.15 p.m. For my part, I add that this is a great law. It protects animals greatly so that they are not harmed too much when these tests need to be carried out and kept under good conditions. These tests should be carried out as little as possible in Estonia and the animals should be tortured as little as possible. It has also been said here that animals should be pained as little as possible when these tests are carried out and, if they need to be executed, in a humane way or how to say it. In short, this law protects animals so that they have as little suffering as possible. There you go.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U318	Raivo Põldaru opens the round of questions for the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! I understood that this is a matter of purely technical problems, and I think we would have come up without the directive. Today, the wording of our law was on the agenda. I suggest that these European officials may have initiated this infringement procedure because there were simply no good translators. Our law is even good, maybe this problem and the infringement procedure are behind translation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U320	Thank you for your question. As you know, our laws that have been passed in this Chamber have always been very good and will be in the future. The Europeans simply wanted to improve, improve and help us a little. For your understanding, I'll give you an example. In the case of two laws, I mean the improved European one that came, and ours, for example, came up with a question of pain. The Estonian law states that the animal must not be harmed, but the European law says that in one case it can be hurted either more or less. Estonian law has not formulated it, which is large and which is small in pain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U321	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U322	Thank you. Surprisingly, the object of these experiments was also called round mud, which is known to be a highly adapted alien species in Estonian waters. What trials do they use? Was that what the Commission was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U323	We did not talk about this in the Commission. I really don't know what's going on there. But I think it's to make the fish develop better.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U324	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U325	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question concerns the Animal Protection Society. You mentioned that the Animal Protection Agency was involved in coordination. I'll ask what it means. Did he coordinate, make proposals, or was this bill supplemented just what exactly does this participation mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U326	Participation means that they have expressed their views. The Estonian Society for Animal Welfare and the University of Tartu were the two institutions with which the Commission worked together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U327	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U328	Good manager! Good waitress! I'd like to know your opinion as an animal friend. You said that the laws were very good and would be better and that the purpose of this bill was to cause as little suffering as possible to experimental animals. But I ask how much suffering these animals will suffer now. Can you specify what these sufferings are and how they will diminish when this bill is adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U329	They are squeezed, cut, injected, etc. It hurts, Peter. And we're gonna try to keep it as short as possible. In short, the idea is to give up animal testing more. Perhaps in other ways these experiments can be carried out, these natural things arranged and studied. The idea is to do what they say, as much as badly needed, but no more. So it's not like we're messing around, cutting mice and rats. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U330	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U331	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, I can see from this coordination table that the University of Tartu has made a lot of proposals, some of which have been taken into account, regardless of part. You yourself also mentioned the University of Tartu. But what about Earth University scientists?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U332	Thank you for your question. All universities were invited to cooperate, but the University of Tartu replied. And, as you said, their proposals have indeed been taken into account. For example, the University of Tartu asked why there is such a term as 'translational study' without opening up the law. The term "Transfer Survey" was accepted to the University of Tartu and included in the law. It's nice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U333	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U334	Good manager and waitress! There are also very important terms and concepts here. You were talking about pain and what's a lot of pain and what's a little pain. Would you open it up a little bit? Pain is characteristic not only of animals but also of humans. What did you discuss in the Commission, which is small pain and which is a great deal of pain?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U335	Thank you for your question. Peter, this was not discussed in the Commission; these terms were simply in a European document. But remember your life, you've lived for many years. What has been the great pain in your life, and what small pain?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U336	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U337	Thank you. Animal testing is, unfortunately, the only way to obtain adequate information and research on the effects of any medicines or other things on the living organism. These tests can bring very good parallels to how they would affect humans. If this action is banned, what will replace it? And how can we be sure that medicines that will be developed in the future will also benefit people and do them good?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U338	Thank you for your question. On the first side, I will reply in such a way that this document does not, under any circumstances, say that animal testing is not being carried out or should not be carried out. The point is to try to reduce them, as has been said here. If experiments are already carried out in one place, such as the University of Tartu, then there is no point in doing the same research in parallel at the Agricultural Academy or anywhere else. It should be checked and checked by the State that a registered authorisation for such experiments has been granted to a single authority in order not to destroy dozens of mice in several places. But who else is there to test on? I don't know. I read here that our president suggested that we talk to robots, maybe try it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U339	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I will open negotiations for the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 734. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 28 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U340	Next item: First reading of the Act on Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law, Administrative Cooperation Act and Amendment of State Fees Act 733 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U341	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will go back to the previous item. I like that the members of the Riigikogu also care about those whom we have to care for and who are to be protected in this case by animals, even experimental animals. But now I come to the law of plant reproduction and plant variety rights. The draft law amending the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law, the Administrative Cooperation Act and the State Fees Act has been developed by the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment. The draft law amending the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Rights Act, the Administrative Cooperation Act and the State Fees Act is due to the need to update the organisation of seed certification, to update the state fees and to align them with actual costs, to align the requirements for the adoption of a fruit plant variety right with European Union legislation and to specify the scope of the plant variety right. The change in the organisation of seed certification will bring our certification system around the world into line with widely used practice. The certification of seeds will reduce the tasks of the State and increase producers' ownership. As a result of the changes, seed of a category certified by the producer of seed may be subject to field inspections itself and, in the case of seed of another category, may be subject to sampling and analysis by the laboratory for the purpose of determining the quality of the seed, if it is authorised to carry out an economic activity or if it is provided by a person authorised to carry out such a service. By means of a legislative amendment, producers themselves may apply for an economic activity permit to carry out certification activities, in which case they shall be exempt from the payment of the State fee for that activity. The amendment to the State Fees Act also supports changes to the certification system. It is appropriate to mention here that seed certification is regarded as a service of private interest, since it gives a particular person the right to market products. The formation of state fees has been reviewed. State fees will rise significantly, while state fees will only need to be paid if the certification service of the Agricultural Office is used in the future. The analysis will be paid to the Centre for Agricultural Research according to the price list they set. The State fee for the sampling and laboratory analysis of seeds of forest trees shall be increased to meet the direct costs of the service and the State fee for the packaging of seeds of forest trees shall be abolished. The authorisation required for the packaging of seeds of forest trees is also replaced by the requirement for an economic notification. The second major change concerns the collection of a variety sheet for fruit crops. The amendment also adds fruit and berry varieties to the varieties to be taken into the variety leaves. The aim is to start taking varieties of fruit and berry crops in the same way as the varieties of agricultural and vegetable crops. The third amendment concerns improving the availability of information to the holder on seed produced for his own use and the payment of a licence fee for the use of seed of the protected variety. Where a protected variety is used, a licence fee shall be paid to the holder of the variety. Such a requirement has been in force for years, but at present the holders of the variety do not receive sufficient information on the seed of the variety and the quantities thereof produced for their own use. Thus, they have not been able to obtain a fair remuneration for the use of these varieties and to protect their rights. In addition, suppliers of seed potatoes will be subject to a self-control system, which has been their own request, and will be replaced by the notification requirement for the authorisation required from producers of forest cultivation material. The general objective of the Act is to update our laws and the organisation of seed production in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U342	There are questions for the waitress. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U343	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this review. I will now examine this explanatory statement, and there are some very interesting and meaningful places here. Here's my question. You note that the risk of adverse effects is a lack of interest for seed producers themselves to apply for an economic activity permit. What has been done to ensure that this interest is not further reduced by rising state fees? If it goes down, it'll have a more crippling effect on the whole system of seed certification.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U344	Thank you for a good question. This interest should in particular be derived from the fact that seed potatoes or seed crops can be charged significantly higher prices on the market. This should be in the interest of each producer. Secondly, the draft law, this amendment, gives the seed producer the opportunity to carry out its own certification. He will no longer have to turn to the state or pay state fees. It makes her life more comfortable and easier. Let's just say that the state is not the central institution in this case, which should organise this matter, but the economic operators themselves. They'll get a certificate of recognition or whatever it's called. They can organise this work in the future. The main thing is that seed or any certified seed can always charge significantly higher prices than a normal product on the market. So they have a direct economic interest here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U345	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U346	Good manager! Good minister! Wouldn't it be a simpler solution if the PRIA were to apply for aid for arable land, then there could be a single box in the application setting out what has been sown on this field? It would then be very clear what varieties are growing in Estonia, and we would have solved the concern that 3/4 farmers will not pay the breeders a cent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U347	Thank you. I can't imagine it. If I were the breeder and you were the consumer, would I give you the goods at the right price, like cheaper? That's the price of herbage. That's when I plant cereal on my field, which leaves something for sowing next year, and that's when I buy grain from a company that has been certified, there's two completely different things. That's where the spread comes from. We need to move forward so that we grow these varieties, which are highly innovative and provide higher yields, that is the goal. This is also the objective of the manufacturer. But you don't read it on that PRIA page. To be honest, I didn't understand the question directly. It certainly would not solve the situation, because our goal is to look for innovative varieties and look around the world. Farmers should be directly interested in this, as it guarantees them a higher harvest. We have to go along with the updates. We should not move on to the line that we simply leave our seed of the seed we sow for several years. It doesn't guarantee a decent harvest. We should go along with new varieties and innovations. So it certainly doesn't solve this situation. The main point or question is that the company itself must be interested. It must itself be interested in using good and innovative varieties and in obtaining them certified. This is directly in the economic interest of the undertaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U348	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U349	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm a little more specific about my question, maybe I just put it in a bad way. Currently, breeders will receive around EUR 200000, but if we adopt this law, the amount will theoretically increase to EUR 800000. In order for the breeders, the sellers of the varieties, to know what is grown on the field, they need a database. There is no database at this time. One option is this: because farmers submit applications for aid to the PRIA either way or by means of grants, it would be possible to indicate the type of farming they are going to grow in their field this year. Then the sellers would have a database where they could see if they were owed or not. Right now, 3/4 of farmers don't pay a cent for a variety.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U350	Thank you. I understand that the content or heart of the question is that someone uses the production of one composer and listens to it simply, i.e. doesn't pay anything for it. Let me get this straight. The question was exactly the same. I don't know. They usually have to renew the varieties and, in any case, buy them from a certified company. This depends on the length of the period, and it is not possible to live at the expense of others. But I understand the substance of this question so that no one can abuse my copyright or other rights and take advantage of me, so that I do not lose it when I have gone through the juniper of certifications. I honestly don't know if this is a big problem today. I don't know if that's a big problem. I was told a few days ago when I went to Ida-Virumaa that there was no simple grain seed in any of the variants. This is due to the dry summer of this year and to the excessive humidity of last year, not only in Estonia, but also in the Baltic States and the larger district. So these seeds just don't exist. It's a serious problem, and they'll have to deal with it. Some farmers are only specialized in seed breeding, and I think this is quite the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U351	Krista Aru, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U352	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In principle, the draft law also concerns varieties of fruit and berry crops. Could you explain a little about this update, the meaning and importance of this fundamental change?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U353	Yes, the effect of this law is expanding considerably. This also applies to the packaging and laboratory analysis of seeds of forest trees. But this area doesn't change much, the basic principles are the same. Or what seeds did you want to handle? Let me get this straight. No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U354	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U355	Good manager and waitress! I'm reading this list of fruit cultures in Latin and Estonian. Perhaps I have not understood it correctly, but tell me who is dealing with the seeds of the kincan tree, the common chestnut or the European olive tree, and the problems associated with them, if you could limit yourself to a few examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U356	Thank you. Who's in particular? The draft law does not specify who deals specifically, it sets the framework. If anyone wants to act in this area, he must be guided by this acceptable law, which will also result in state fees and all the next steps. In itself, it creates an opportunity, and if you are involved in this field, you must take account of that list. But I can read a list of plant species for which seed and propagating material of the protected variety may be used in small quantities: oats, common barley, rye, triticale, common wheat, rape, rape, flax, chickpea, yellow lupin, lucerne, field peas, field beans, summer peas, potatoes. That's the list.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U357	Thank you very much to the Minister. No further questions. The Chairman of the Rural Commission, Aivar Kokk, will present a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U358	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On Monday, 5 November, the Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft law on plant propagation and plant variety rights initiated by the Government of the Republic, the law on administrative cooperation and the amendment of the State Fees Act. Mr Toomas Kevvai, Deputy Secretary-General for Food Safety and Research and Development of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Mr Sigmar Suu, Head of the Plant Health Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Mr Kristiina Digryte, adviser to the same department, who presented this draft. The Members of the Commission asked a lot of questions. A lot of questions didn't get answers. Let us hope that, between the first reading and the second reading, we will also get answers. We have also sent an invitation to all interested parties so that they can present their thoughts and suggestions on this draft. This affects a very large area: all agricultural holdings operating in Estonia that grow grain on the field, forest-based enterprises and fruit farmers. The Commission also took four consensual decisions. It was proposed to place a draft of 733 on the plenary agenda on 14 November and to appoint Inara Luis as rapporteur. Since Inara could not be here at this time of day, the Commission decided to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur this Monday. The Commission also proposed that the first reading be stopped and, when the first reading is completed, that the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act be amended by 10 working days, i.e. on 28 November at 5.15 p.m. Once again, all decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U359	Peter Ernits asks the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U360	Good manager and waitress! First of all, the compliments to the Committee on Rural Affairs, because their members respond in a clear Estonian language and understandably. But at the moment, I sincerely did not understand the Minister's opinion on this draft. As I heard, there were a lot of questions, but there were no answers. So who's gonna do it? I don't care about people. I wonder why this list is like that. I'm talking about fruit crops right now. Strawberries, pears, twigs, etc. This is quite clear. But why is there a chestnut tree, a kincan tree, a European olive tree on this list, but there are no bananas or all kinds of palms grown in a greenhouse? How did this list come up, can you tell? Is this just a list of the directive that has been sent here to us? Open up some cards, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U361	Thank you for a very good question. So much of the common chestnut tree that, as you know, it is possible to obtain chestnut eggs from them in some years in Estonia. [[A voice from the hall.]] No? Ah, they're horse chestnuts. The common chestnut eggs are the ones you can eat. I can't answer you. We did not really examine the varieties in the Commission. This bill raised so many other issues, starting with the change of payment systems and the abolition of labelling taxes. It was also asked what the amounts for the taxation of seed varieties were. Currently, 200,000 euros are collected on crop varieties in Estonia, half of which goes to Estonian breeders and half to foreign breeders. However, if the total area of arable land is calculated and the amount of grain grown, this amount could be in the order of EUR 800000. We are just starting to analyse in the Commission whether these are real numbers, which are set as variety prices here, and whether they will affect farmers in the coming years. That's gonna figure out what numbers are actually staying here. We didn't get answers to all the questions either. For example, if you got 10 cents for putting a label on the package before, the bill says you can't get it anymore. We asked how many of these packages are made each year. We know about how many seeds are harvested to grow the forest, but we do not know in which packages they are and how much money it means on the other hand. With the precepts, they come from the government, from the Ministry to the Riigikogu, where the committees will discuss them. After all, the bill is finally passed by the Riigikogu. So we will certainly be able to answer many questions in the Commission. And when we see that this bill suffers to come to second reading, we will come to second reading with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U362	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U363	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question concerns the issue of forest cultivation material, and precisely that of the fact that scientists from both the University of Earth and other institutions have highlighted problems relating to the quality of forest plants. If we bring them in from the south side, there'll be cold clefts. Are the forest plants that reach Estonia's forests still of high quality and are the feasibility of this investment ensured? We do not want to plant plants that are sick at one point and do not guarantee the value of the forest or its growth. Will this bill improve something about it and take the subject under review, or will this bill not specifically address this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U364	Thank you. The honest answer is that it is not directly concerned, but it is certainly indirectly affected. I believe that today it has become clear to all foresters, who also plant new forests on their clearing, that they must sow domestic seed or plant domestic plants. By now we already have this experience that the plant coming from Latvia does not grow in Estonia like the Estonian plant. Here, however, we are talking about the variety: those who have the right to sell or breed certain varieties and that I can buy the right variety, which has the right label and whose seed also has the right price.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U365	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U366	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As we know, the state fee is always imposed on some activities here. I read the explanatory statement and do not fully understand whether we have also had people taxed at state fees or whether the person in itself has been remunerated at state fees. In this explanatory memorandum, there is a paragraph in which it says: 'As a well-known variety cannot be charged a state fee for an application for a variety leaf and for keeping it in a variety leaf, because the well-known variety has no owner, they are also exempted from the payment of the state fee in order to avoid unequal treatment between the breeders of the fruit and berry variety. ' Have these breeders so far been subject to state fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U367	That's a very good question. Are breeders taxed at state fees? Not that I know of. We have had a completely different question: Breeders have not received any money for breeding. In the field, varieties are sown for which the breeders are not paid. This is the issue that this bill is trying to resolve. At the moment, I think there are shortcomings in the draft, and that is why I asked the Minister about this. If a farmer had the obligation to include a variety sheet on the field when applying for a premium from the PRIA, then perhaps we would have an accurate view of how many varieties there are somewhere. Secondly, what we saw here in the last two years is very important. One year, when it was very rainy, everyone tried to put down the seeds of legumes obtained from abroad. If Estonia had laid down peas, the fields would not have had the problem of another variety. We recommend varieties bred in Estonia, which can still best withstand the conditions of Estonia. They do not always yield maximum yield, but if the weather is either too dry or too wet, they are often more durable than the varieties brought from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U368	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. If the political groups have a wish to negotiate, I will open negotiations. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 733. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 28 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U369	Next item: First reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act (729 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U370	Good evening, Mr President, and good members of the Riigikogu. We will then begin the discussion of educational topics in the Riigikogu on Wednesday evening. The first of these drafts, as the President has already said, is the draft law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is quite familiar to all members of the Riigikogu; it has been dealt with several times here. The subject matter of this draft law has been pending in different forms for years. Discussions on the provisions of this part of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act have been quite contradictory in their views: who considers the background of this draft as already inherited from Viljandi, who talks about policeing the teacher's position. There has even been discussion of the purposeful activities related to the social status of the teacher and other draft laws. It is noted in the discussions that perhaps this is a draft which does not have much substance, because teachers have been doing all this a long time ago. I will deliberately bring such completely opposite views right at the beginning of the debate, because it is indeed a draft that talks about the skills, competences and wishes of teachers. I start by getting messages from educators on several occasions that schools are struggling with students who interfere with learning and teaching, especially in situations where lawyers are being brought into play to protect the student's inappropriate behaviour. There are certainly lawyers who are teachers, but not all teachers are lawyers. And it doesn't have to be. In everyday school life, you cannot rely solely on abstract emergency protection or other legal principles far from school life. According to this bill, the school worker does not become a law enforcement officer or impose obligations on the school to do something that people who work at school have not been trained to do. The teacher stays a teacher, and the lawkeeper stays a lawkeeper. The purpose of the draft is not to impose additional obligations on the school, but we will give the teacher the opportunity to intervene in a situation where he considers it reasonable and feasible. In particular, we want to create additional legal clarity, to lay down at law level the role and rights of the school worker in ensuring security, to establish limits, rules that help both members of the school family and pupils' parents to understand where the limits of admissibility go and which are certainly not legitimate. I will also speak a few words about the current procedure and the connection with the other drafts in the proceedings. The members of the Riigikogu know that the Estonian Reform Party's political group has initiated a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act, in the parliamentary language 505 SE. Today's draft is a draft that was dealt with by the Ministry of Education and Research quite several years ago, but this document did not reach the Riigikogu, as it was not supported by several ministries, especially the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, but also by other cooperation partners, such as the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice. With the draft that you see here today, we have also done further work in the light of draft 505, and we have tried, together with our partners, to strike a greater balance between the rights and freedoms of the various parties. The only partner with whom no final agreement has been reached is the Estonian Student Association, whose views are also somewhat understandable in the light of the role expectations placed on them. At the same time, the proposals of the Student Union have been taken into account to a very large extent. In our opinion, their inconsistency is largely based on the inherent mistrust of school staff. If there is no conviction that school staff are acting in good faith, there can be no understandable support for any amendment to this Act. We consider the trust between the school family to be extremely important, and we hope to make tangible progress in this respect. Now, closer to the bill. Several legislation imposes obligations on the state, local government and school to guarantee the child's right to safety and to prevent situations threatening the child's health or life. Let me give you a few examples. For example, according to § 6 of the Child Protection Act, risks to the child's well-being and development must be prevented in order to ensure the rights and well-being of the child. Prevention includes early detection, response, including detection of problems and abuse in the growing environment, of situations and events that threaten the child. § 44 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act imposes an obligation on the school to ensure the safety and health protection of children at school. The draft provides for better opportunities for comprehensive schools and upper secondary schools and more clearly regulated rights to ensure the safety of pupils and schools, to prevent and intervene in emergency situations. Influence measures must be available to those who are present at school every day and who are responsible for a secure school environment. Therefore, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act complements the list of sanctions with two measures and sets out the conditions that must be met in order to implement the sanctions and other conditions that must be met in the course of the implementation of the sanctioning measure. According to the bill, the law establishes lists of objects and substances prohibited from school, complements two measures to remove and deposit such items and substances in the possession of the student, including the examination of the closed cabinet used by the student, and the verification of the student's and his/her clothing by observation and compilation, the withdrawal of such items and substances from the student's possession and the removal of the school, the possible application of additional measures, the requirements for those persons, the requirements for depositing stored items, the prerequisites for the application of additional sanctions and the prerequisites that must be met in advance, the organisational requirements for the implementation of measures, including, for example, the drafting of the protocol, and the procedure for informing the implementation of the measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U371	The round of questions begins with Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U372	Thank you. Good minister! You know that you are actually reading a bill that was already ripe in 2016. The talk of hard work and changes being introduced is simply not true. I filed the bill because it's an initiative of my time, but you froze it. Tell me why you couldn't cooperate and let your partymates process these little details in the Riigikogu, which you have written here for a while! The opposition to the draft content is the same: the union of student representatives is opposed. And there weren't any more of them back then. Why couldn't the existing draft be further processed? Why did the document have to be bureaucratically shaken from one corner to another for a year and a half?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U373	Thank you, good questioner! Perhaps you did not see this as a minister in 2015 or 2016, but this bill could not be further processed because a negative position came from both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. If the two ministries have a very specific negative view, it is not possible to proceed with the draft. In 2016, there was a desire to move forward with this bill, but these denials by two ministries in the process called'red warning' did not allow this to happen. And that is why this issue was further developed. As the members of the Committee on Culture know, my position as Minister for Education on this draft has been very favourable from the outset, be it draft 505 or today's draft. We tried to find a balance that would be legally valid, especially in view of the opinions of the Chancellor of Justice's office on children's rights. Finding such a balance was essential, and in draft 729 it is. Those specialists who've been doing this, the good questioner knows very well. This previous bill has not been written by Jürgen Ligi or today's bill by Mailis Reps. This work is done by experts in our ministries. And these people are the same. There have been no political attitudes towards one minister or another since the beginning, there has been a very busy spirit for specialists. As I said in the Committee on Culture, I see no problem in looking at these drafts hand in hand. But, as we know, this bill is substantially different in content. If there is a need, I can, Jürgen, gladly introduce what provisions have changed and how.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U374	Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U375	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In the Committee on Culture, we have been discussing this issue very thoroughly a year ago. However, I come to a specific draft. We are aware of the basis on which and to whom the rights of this prevention and action are granted from among the school staff. But I quote the opinion of the Estonian Student Union: they say that concrete measures should be considered in all of this. If, on the one hand, a school worker is granted police rights and, on the other hand, he or she must be able to provide an environment conducive to learning, one may start working against another. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U376	Thank you for a very good question. That is why very long consideration was given to the scope of the various interventions and to who can do what and how. I'd be happy to explain any changes to the previous questioner. We have very good lawyers and people involved in substantive work. I asked them to draw up a table which, in the meantime, has changed in the two years that the provisions are pending. Well, it's legal nuances at times, but one fundamental difference is what the students point out. The scope of the intervention in the original version was, in fact, taken over from the Nordic countries, which is nothing unique. The definition was that, in very exceptional cases, a school worker who had completed the training may intervene to the extent that, according to the Ministry of the Interior, one of the school staff had been granted the rights of an assistant police officer. Perhaps this employee would have been on the same level as an assistant police officer. The Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, as well as other organisations dealing with children's rights, including organisations working very hard to create a good school culture and an anti-bullying environment, were very concerned. When schoolwork turns into cops, the atmosphere changes in school. This is the main reason why the balance point was sought. It was found that intervention could be allowed in a specific exceptional case and could be much smaller than intervention at the level of an assistant police officer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U377	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U378	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. It has already been pointed out here that the Reform Party presented a similar draft a few years ago, but you said that it was not coordinated by the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs. Could you mark those factors that were not coordinated at the time? What's the change between now and now that they're coordinating?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U379	Thank you. Yes, I can. How many hours do you have? I can briefly say that a very long debate went around which laws which articles and which substances are specifically prohibited at school. This must be clearly stated so that schools can implement sanctions. It cannot simply be said that a student may not have prohibited objects in his possession, there must be a law that specifically lists prohibited items and substances. Next, the original draft used the word'security check'. It's a term used in law enforcement. Experts from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice found that the term "security control" cannot be extended to the screening of objects. These are measures with different restrictions on fundamental rights. Therefore, the definition was narrowed down and specifically referred to as a storage facility, i.e. a closed closet, and, in very limited cases, the control of something in the student's use. In short, there were many places that were drawn in red that lawyers argued about. For example, what is mentioned by one term or another or to what extent intervention is permitted, how it is restricted. A task force has been working on all of this. As I said, I am happy to place these materials at the disposal of the Committee on Culture. There is also the Commission's own decision on the extent to which it deals with this draft and the extent to which it deals with the initial draft. My personal goal is that the solution that society really expects finally comes from this Riigikogu in the best way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U380	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U381	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Our teachers feel that they are doing a very important job, but society does not value it enough. A study just a few years ago revealed that on a five - ball scale, teachers appreciated their profession with 2.2 balls. It is often associated with teachers having too few rights in the schoolhouse, in the classroom. My question is: what are the further plans of the Ministry of Education and Research to increase teachers' rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U382	Thank you for a very good question. Once again, it would be tempting to start talking a little bit more about the subject of a change in teachers' rights. I can delight the people of Estonia: this problem is very international. The UN Task Force on Teachers has also referred to a change in the value of the teaching profession in society. It is not about whether or not school staff have the right to search, but about the fact that, quite recently, the teacher's information and knowledge is now much faster to find information on the smartphone. The authority based on facts tends to be lost and many teachers have not been able to re-learn quickly enough. All these factors cause anxiety and uncertainty. And what comes out of our teacher studies very well: teachers' self-esteem is lower than society's assessment of them. We simply need to step-by-step to resolve these problems, which make teachers feel insecure. We give them more support, train teachers, make them feel safe. One of the bottlenecks has been the issue that we are also discussing here today. Teachers say they have no rights. More precise regulation of teachers' rights is expected. In the introduction to my speech, I said that this problem is controversial. Fortunately, in most schools, these new provisions do not need to be implemented, but in a critical situation, this change gives confidence. And I hope it's on both sides. I very much hope that, during the next stages of the procedure in the Committee on Culture, we can also calmly explain to the students that this should also give the students a sense of security. Any search, any intervention must be recorded, there must be a third party at If we emphasise that, perhaps there will be understanding among the students.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U383	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U384	Thank you. First of all, I'm gonna ask you about the bill form. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has repeatedly drawn the attention of the Riigikogu to its composition so that we can feel that we have not made any redundant law every night when we go home as legislators. My question is that we have a draft of the same content in the proceedings. Compared to the previous draft prepared by the Reform Party, what are the changes that you have referred to? I think they're formal, terminological. Are there any substantive differences from the original draft? What would you like to bring out?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U385	Thank you. I believe the good questioner understands very well that 505 SEs and today's bill were not made by different people. The maker is still the same team of experts who started working on this draft five years ago. I believe you good questioners know how to deal with drafts. When the Riigikogu initiates one draft, it always asks for the opinion of the Government of the Republic. And the Minister of Education, despite his importance in the government, is not the only member of the government. If some people in the government are against the bill, there's no agreement. Would the Ministry of Education and Research have been prepared to proceed with the draft 505? Of course! It's based on the best knowledge of the Ministry of Education and Research. We can see that such regulation works in the Nordic countries. But what are the differences? As I said, there was a debate as to whether the scope of the authorised intervention coincides with the scope of the rights of the assistant police officer, what are the interventions from which the violation of fundamental rights begins. If all of this had been as consensual as it seems today, you would probably not have presented it in the opposition, but also in the coalition. It was just there that there was a very clear distinction between the institutions, no political dividing lines I can see. No party is opposed to the content of the draft is so important that we have been consensual in setting the target. But yes, the argument was about legal, legal nuances. And I'd be happy to explain them. Are they important or not? I believe these are very important to lawyers. People were working on it. Every week this team got together. The draft was taken up for another year and a half after the first draft had already been completed. I imagine it's been working on for five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U386	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U387	Thank you. Good minister! When you answered Jürgen Ligi's question, you probably forgot that in the meantime I was a minister. During this time, I received the draft from the Ministry of Justice and from the Ministry of the Interior. In this sense, it seems amazing that the bill still took another two years. How can you explain this coordination and non-coordination already achieved? So what happened? Did the Minister of Justice, who was the same as he is in the government today, change his mind or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U388	Thank you, good questioner! You'll have to ask somewhere else, a good questioner. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior are now the same as in the previous government. I inherited a bill with both red signs on it. But we can discuss this for a long time. Once again, the Ministry of Education and Research was also the initiator of the original draft. It remained stalled purely because it was not allowed to continue in the proceedings. If they want to see any change in substance, I don't know how to help you find it. Exactly the same lawyers, exactly the same specialists have been working hard on it. And the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice have also dealt with it by the same experts. And they've been discussing what security checks mean, what a closed closet means, which protocol needs to be drawn up on the spot. That is why this procedure has not moved on; these are the nuances. I have no better idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U389	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U390	Thank you. I can confirm what you have stressed here several times that it has been done in the Ministry of Education as a result of the work of the same specialists, but on my strong initiative. My ambition didn't really come true there, but the security part is written down by the same specialists. I can assure you that there was also coordination between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, in oral form. There was an exchange of ministers then, and I couldn't get it done. But what you're saying here isn't serious. This degree of detail in the law you describe is absurd. Why do you need another year and a half? One word, "Security Control," was the last word left up. But to describe some kind of closets and some sort of substance, it's still a nightmare, to be honest. When we talk about legislation, it is overregulation. Please talk about this closet and these substances! How have they now been described there, and what has gotten better with it? After all, there are no other lockers or other substances involved in the dispute, only those where there are doubts. What, though, is involved in substances? How can one substance be identified in such a process?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U391	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U392	Please tell me how it says it!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U393	Thank you. I'm a little bit out of line right now. What are we discussing here today in the Chamber of Riigikogu: the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the purpose of amending it, or the date on which the draft was introduced? We can also proceed in full peace with 505 SEs if you say that this has been the case from the outset with the consent of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice and we question the legal departments of the Ministry of Education and Research and the three other ministries and their competence. Of course, the legislator is the highest authority; the legislator can do so. I have no facts other than the ones here. These provisions have been substantially specified. The reason why this took so long was due to legislative needs: compromises, balanced wordings were sought. I'm sure with all my capabilities, Jürgen hasn't written the original version of the bill himself, nor have I written it at home. This bill has really been done for a long time, but there hasn't been any ulterior reason to delay it for so long. Everything is done with the best knowledge. If there is now a question of why this bill needs to be processed again, then as initiators, we can choose a different procedural mode. We can go forward in a combined form or modified form just all the variants are. I proposed the same solutions in the Committee on Culture. What matters is the content, it needs to be moved forward, and that is what I proposed to you. What kind of lockers and substances are controlled? Good Jürgen, since you've filed this bill yourself, we can talk about what's changed since then. Like I said, it's nuances. If nothing's changed, the better. Then the Committee on Culture can take these drafts and, if they are in identical terms, put them together and go to the process. It's easier! At second reading, all the initiators of the draft, and perhaps the rest of the Members, are very pleased.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U394	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U395	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is very nice that you are so open to certain cooperation on these two drafts. But my question is that you have mentioned the example of the Nordic countries several times. We know that the Nordic schools employ much more assistant teachers and other support staff than the Estonian schools. Does it give any hope that there will be such a regulation in Estonia too that it will be possible to apply more reinforcements in classes? And the second question, to which it may be somewhat difficult to answer: who, in today's highly sensitive world, are the people at school who have the right to run students through?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U396	First of all, as far as the Nordic model is concerned, indeed, with these very sensitive issues, we are looking at how those countries that have long been accustomed to dealing with children's rights have solved similar issues. And when we drafted this draft, we also looked at the experiences of all the Nordic countries and the other countries that set an example for us in the legal system. Finland's experience in this area was analysed quite thoroughly; these experiences are much wider than today's draft and also 505 SE issues. But, yeah, it's a sensitive subject. Do we have enough special educators and other specialists in classes and schools? I'm sure it isn't, but we're all working to make sure there's more and more. The situation has certainly improved considerably in many places. There's a joint job behind this. We must also work together, for example, to ensure that training opportunities for specialized education are extended and received twice as much. Hopefully it will bear fruit over the years. Do we have any tutors? Yeah, they're used. But the status of assistant teacher, as we know, requires clarification. The qualifications framework is currently being reviewed and the subject of the assistant teacher is also on the table. Who are the people who can do the search? If we look at the experience of schools, it is most likely to be the head of the school. Some schools have also suggested that if there is a good specialist, such as a special educator, then in this case his third party is the one who comes and helps to resolve the situation. Why? Because before they get to the touch, everyone obviously wants to solve the problem by talking calmly. You don't get to the company often, in fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U397	Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U398	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Several international studies have confirmed that the most effective way to support children's learning is to have a trusting relationship between the learner and the teacher. In your introduction, you also stressed the importance of trust in the school family and promised to take steps to create it more. What are these steps going to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U399	Thank you for a very good question. In the coming weeks, there will be another very broad debate on school joy and school security. Very many citizens' initiative organisations will come to our mutual support there. One and a very clear option is simply additional training, paying attention to the fact that there must be a zero tolerance for any irregularities and non-notices. If you look at the results of the school study, you can see that the children have said most afterwards that they are insulted if they are left unaided or neglected. Responding to temptation with zero tolerance is the most important thing. Fortunately, when it comes to the general school environment, we have a whole series of opportunities to achieve goals together, it is either through training or by simply raising awareness. Communication, respect for each other, mutual respect, hearing, noticing each other... As the questioner knows very well, it is precisely this general agreement between very many organisations to deal with this issue in a complex way, from kindergarten to kindergarten, that could be what satisfies us all. I am pleased that this consortium has actually already emerged and that they have discussed the problems between themselves on the right number of times. Of course, we will also deal with this in the state budget procedure, and now that the Riigikogu has decided that civil society organisations will have long-term contracts, it is crucial that this consortium also knows that it is possible for them to expand their activities over a period of three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U400	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U401	Thank you, manager. Good minister! We came to the subject of training. I had a question with similar content. Certainly both the KiVa program and the quiet minutes program help students. But in addition to having the skills of this examiner or the ability to recognise some kind of problem, as stated here in the draft law amending the PGS, it is certainly very important to have a supervision for teachers. In general, it seems to me that we are paying too little attention to this. While activities are called teacher training or self-improvement, there could also be psychological and therapeutic training that the teacher needs precisely in order to establish his authority better. How much is meant for, and is it even? Which programs are for teachers to have a supervision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U402	Thank you for a very good question. The subject of teacher training has, of course, been discussed very long and very seriously. We've had periods of training each school itself. A few years ago, it was considered to be more nationally targeted. Major or targeted training has been carried out with universities, and one aspect that has now been added is that, alongside the recognition and support of children's individuality, the mental health of teachers has begun to be considered. The direction is to strengthen it in general so that they themselves can spot bottlenecks and support themselves. How extensive are these trainings? There's been a round in the counties, the feedback is very good, but of course we don't get to every teacher. In fact, the groups that participate are like that in every county. The desire to expand teacher training is considered necessary both in language and in general. And special education is very, very much desired.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U403	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U404	Thank you, Mr President. Good madam minister! One very important group, an organization that has been very critical of this bill, was then a draft of 505 or is currently a union of student representatives. Have you been able to meet with the leaders of this union, or perhaps with a larger group, to discuss the bill and perhaps to ease their concerns a little bit? The root cause of this concern is, after all, in the current school climate and in the fear that this still not very open society will become even more closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U405	Thank you. Indeed, there have been many serious discussions with students. The Council, which brings together youth organisations, which advises the Minister, meets regularly. There's another meeting next week. And every time, students have discussed not only this bill, but the school climate in general. Can these concerns be completely eliminated? No, it's not. This has been repeatedly raised in these debates by the child ombudsman. These are the subjects of the Chancellor of Justice. Yeah, we're proud of our school culture, we're proud of our teachers, but unfortunately, there's a lot of bad examples. It is a concern that students are afraid, rather than the student organisation, that some students are afraid that if teachers receive the right to touch and take things away and it is not limited with sufficient precision, then teachers can use it against children by humiliating them. This is definitely not good. At the same time, they also say that in certain cases such intervention is needed. Yeah, they had that denial from the very beginning. In this sense, good questioners are right, but this procedure has been going on for a long time. They have had such an attitude from the outset that they do not, in principle, oppose the clarification of the regulation, but the aim as such is to extend the rights of one party to the one party, by their very nature, creates caution in them. Speaking in colour, their position is more like pink rather than red. They also say yes, process, specify, but any such step in that direction is like rejecting the balance too much. Teacher organizations again say that there is no balance today. The students know their rights very well, but the teachers are in a precarious state. It is the rights of teachers that need to be specified so that they feel safer in the school environment. This is why, despite all the rather controversial discussions, this draft has already arrived in this Chamber several times. It is likely that at some point the legislator will decide whether it will become a valid law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U406	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U407	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Looking at today's agenda and hearing how many times different parties have tabled this draft and how changes have been made over the years, another draft in your area will come to mind. This is the so-called draft external evaluation of school leaders, i.e. 611 SE. So this is not the only unfortunate case and, unfortunately, it takes the focus away from the content. I'm gonna say in the rectory that this practice could be changed and not wasted on legal trash. But now the contents. I'm asking about the training of these people, whether they're headmasters or not. Does the bill also provide for instruments to enable these trainings to take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U408	Thank you, good questioner! Slowly, I'm starting to get the hang of it. I understand that your questions are primarily due to a long-standing unfortunate practice in the Riigikogu: when the opposition presents a draft, it must, in principle, be voted down and then proposed a draft with the same content itself. I must grieve you, this is not a case of this kind. If it were such a simple solution, if there were no difference in nuances, this bill would have become a law, and that is what I was trying to say. In fact, it is not about the legal details and we have had very extensive discussions. A deputy police officer versus a teacher who has received additional training, this is a big difference. But I will also repeat that draft 505 has not been voted down, taking the view that it is not appropriate. But now about the bill on school leaders, which you mentioned. That, too, is not the question. It is the subject of fixed-term contracts for school leaders and open-ended contracts. Should assessments and qualification requirements for school leaders be carried out at any time? Let's say they have to prove themselves from time to time. A very wide-ranging subject and this idea has as many supporters as opponents. Have we reached a consensus? No, it's not. As you certainly know, the open-ended and fixed-term contracts of school leaders have been widely debated throughout society. Some are eager to confirm that a long-term agreement ensures the stability of schools, that the head of school is non-political, that even in a small area, it is possible to breathe calmly and develop its own school. Others say that it has stopped school development, that some school leaders do not train themselves and that school does not develop enough. So it is still a debate, there is no consensus. But do we have specific provisions regarding today's draft on how to carry out these trainings, to what extent and by whom? To this, a good questioner, I answer so that the best specialists at the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education have discussed whether it should be real training or simply sharing information on what extent they need training. Today, I can't tell you if there are briefings or information days for teachers. This center of gravity tends more to the experts of the Ministry of the Interior. Perhaps a thorough sharing of information will suffice. More specifically, it is appreciated by specialists from the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education and other institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U409	Dear Minister for Education and Science, Mailis Reps, there are no further questions for you. I would like to ask Mr Pikhof, Member of the Chair, to present the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U410	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We discussed the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and made the first-reading procedural decisions on 22 October. All members of the Committee on Culture took part in the meeting. The draft had been invited to introduce the Minister of Education and Research Mailis Reps, the lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research Indrek Kilk and the head expert of the School Network Department Jürgen Rakaselg. Now, from the discussion. Mailis Reps presented a draft which introduces the possibility of introducing additional measures of influence on students in order to ensure a secure, learning-friendly school environment. Minister Reps explained that the draft Act amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act, which was drawn up in 2015, complies with the intention to develop the draft Act, which was submitted to the partners for coordination on 11 June 2015. The provisions of the draft act are substantially in line with those set out in the draft proposal. According to Minister Reps, the students were the only ones who disagreed on the draft. The Minister explained that the purpose of the draft is to regulate the current grey zone in school life, where one student does not allow others to delve into teaching or uses a tool that is not directly covered, for example, by the Arms Act, and there is a situation where the police cannot be called and the school should react itself. The most sensitive subject of the draft is the touchdown, which has been made so bureaucratic that abuses are excluded. Action must be recorded, there must be a third party present, etc., as you have already heard from the Minister's speech. The Minister confirmed that the school must preferably achieve a secure atmosphere by other means: trust between teacher and student, minutes of silence, etc. However, there is a strong social expectation of regulating such a complex situation. Now for the questions raised in the Commission. One question was the year in which the draft on this topic began to be drawn up. Jürgen Rakaselg replied that during the time of Minister Ossinovski, the Ministry sent out a draft of the intention to develop and that the draft had been associated much with the shooting of schools, but this was not a direct incentive. Next, they asked if such a law would help in real life in the case of school shooting. Jürgen Rakaselg replied that the teachers of the Estonian state do not need to be prepared to go against firearms. The Minister added that the benefit is that the draft provides for training. The Ministry of the Interior has very strongly announced that it is ready to be a training party and to talk about such interference. The approach is not to teach teachers to intervene, but to teach teachers or any other responsible person to recognise when there is an imminent danger. Jürgen Rakaselg added that Finland, for example, has been dealing with preventive regulation, which is very rarely needed, but borders have been agreed and disputes about the need for regulation have subsided. Then came the unsupporting position of the students. Jürgen Rakaselg explained that the students were most met, and their opposition to the question of whether the student trusted the teacher or not. The starting point for the problems raised by the students is their fear that the teacher will not be delivered in good faith, but will be spiteful and must be searched by the school for the purpose of searching the students. Minister Reps added that many of the places that the students referred to have already been changed in the draft, but the general position of the students is that such a law is not needed because the rules of procedure of the school are sufficient. The issue of risk assessment also came up. Again, Jürgen Rakaselg explained that it was a question of assessing how to behave. When it comes to a health hazard, it makes sense to put all the opportunities into play, but when it comes to a situation that interferes with learning or teaching, you have to assess how you should act. Teachers, for example, use the solution not to push the distraction out of class, but to leave class with the rest of the class. There was more talk about training for classroom leaders and other teachers. Minister Reps replied that the help of a support specialist is often used in situations requiring intervention so that the rest of the class can continue working with the teacher. If your teacher does not help you say it several times, a third party may have to be involved to resolve the situation. There was also talk about whether to link this draft to the Reform Party's draft. Laine Randjärv expressed the view that it would be reasonable to continue working with this draft and not to start linking it to the same draft 505 submitted by the Reform Party Group. However, Aadu Black considered it necessary to refer to the previous initiative of the Reform Party in the future procedure. And now decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 14 November and that the first reading be closed. It was also decided to propose a deadline of 28 November 2018 for amendments. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U411	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U412	Thank you, manager. Good Heljo! Since my name was mentioned here, although there are no negotiations, I would like to clarify my point. This was due to the fact that the Commission official had carried out an analysis and found that these drafts were very similar. Rather, it was not a stand-off position, but we discussed that this issue was so important and that it should be addressed. The principle was not that under no circumstances should the old draft be dealt with. The point was to move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U413	Well, you can take it like this. I'm not arguing with you right now. I read what the record says. Yeah, in a way, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U414	Dear waitress, Member of the Committee on Culture Heljo Pikhof! No further questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Toomas Jürgenstein as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U415	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I admit that today's bill is a little sad. Learning, discovering, having fun at school. The need to search someone or peek into someone's closet doesn't make you feel good. But now, I hope you don't mind me quoting a little bit more about the classic Estonian work 'Spring'. This is where Toots' pockets are turned upside down. 'Toots, what are you doing there? '''Nothing. '''If a man doesn't do anything, he sits still in his seat. What have you got in your bosom? '''Nothing. 'I'm gonna skip a bit, then teacher Laur says, 'What do you think I'm gonna do to you now? " Toots smile sadly and look to the corner. 'Everyone's wrong. I'm not gonna put you in the corner tonight. You're not gonna be fined. Promise me you won't do any more pranks today, and nothing will happen to you. Promise? '''Yeah. '''Very good! ' Still, just so the things you have in your pocket don't tempt you to the evil way, come lay them out here, on my desk. Come on, come on! ' Toots answers: 'I don't want to, others see. '''Ah swamp. Well, then it's just for the two of us to know what's in your pockets. Go put your things on the table in my room. ' Teacher Laur solved the situation in the best way and today's draft should also contribute to such solutions at school. Note: Objects that interfere with teaching or may be dangerous will be deposited by a schoolteacher. He doesn't do it in front of other students. Moreover, his authority is so great that Toots places these things on the schoolteacher's desk alone. And these aren't innocent things. We don't usually keep reading. But I'm gonna read what was in it. The toss namely peeked through the keyhole and he said that there were two or three Indian books, several stones, a few files, pieces of iron, two or three knives, one iron spike, orb thread, one letter with needles and a wooden skate. Of course, there was a puppy who slept in the teacher's bed. Now, I'm looking for confirmation at Ain Lutsep, maybe he's the only one who can confirm the list of things. But it seems to me that the movie version doesn't match the real book here. But specifically, three knives and an iron blade are certainly things that can prove dangerous at school. Speaking about today's draft, it must be taken very seriously of the fact that the student representative organisation has expressed a position against the draft. The Estonian Student Association notes that they cannot support the granting of rights which may give rise to the possibility that the student's self-esteem may be called into question when exercising additional influence on the student. I think I've taught around 3,000 students some more, some less, and they can confirm that I take the students' opinion seriously. I believe that speaking almost always helps and can be achieved tens of times more than by force. However, there are arguments why I support this draft today. On a broader scale, I will follow the idea of Jeremy Bentham, the founder of Utilitarianism in a slightly modified way: when making decisions, it should be borne in mind that they would bring the greatest possible benefits to the greatest possible number and the lowest possible harm to the minimum possible. The draft is supported by organisations representing teachers. For example, the Estonian Teachers' Association announces that it supports the school culture built on trust above all, but acknowledges the need for a draft. In their view, the draft law provides for a swift response where necessary and they agree in principle. For my part, I would add that we have been talking a lot lately about children with special needs in ordinary schools and that support specialists often do not go to schools. And there's nothing to do. Teachers are insecure when dealing with children with special needs. Accepting today's bill would give them a little bit more certainty. Perhaps I would conclude figuratively: with today's draft, we can give schools a drawer insurance policy, while we hope that this policy will never have to be taken out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U416	Heidy Purga, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U417	Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed here! As a representative of the Reform Party, I will state the position of our party. In his opening speech to Parliament, the Prime Minister said that there will be no such thing in his government that the right bill will be presented by the wrong man and therefore the law will not be passed. But it seems that this is what happened with this bill. The first version of the draft law under discussion today with the number 505 was launched already in 2016, as we have already heard about this evening's debate. The broader aim of the legislative amendment was also to enable teachers and schools to respond to situations of danger. More than a year went by, but this important issue had not been brought forward at ministerial level. In addition, the Estonian Reform Party Group introduced a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act, i.e. a revised version of the same draft. The amendment proposed by the Reform Party was rejected. We do not want to wonder whether the fact that the bill was presented by the wrong man was the reason for the rejection. However, despite the progress of things, the Reform Party continues to believe that this is a good and very necessary draft aimed at making the school environment safer. We are also sympathized with the opinion of the Estonian Student Union that it is important to deal with the prevention of threats, also by increasing school cheer and reducing school bullying and violence. Schools must provide a good mental and physical environment, but it is also necessary to ensure the safety of the school family. School staff must be able to intervene and support security. We are of the opinion that the two drafts that have been discussed here this afternoon could be combined, because the basis for rejecting one is, in our opinion, a little small and it is not practical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U418	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U419	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Good people's representatives! The Free Party Group supports the proposed draft law, but we are most pleased with the opinion expressed by the Estonian Student Association. This is their description of how they want to see the school environment as open, friendly, trusting and supportive, as they take into account the skills, abilities and needs of each learner. In fact, it is the wish of all of us, but since education is so multifaceted and multifaceted and changes every day, it is clear that no such beautiful idealistic great desire can come true as it is intended. And that is why all the opinions that have been voiced here today are very clear: in order to maintain a trusting and supportive atmosphere in school, or at least ever, there is a need to value, above all, the work of a schoolmaster or teacher, to raise his reputation and to give him more rights. When we look at these coordinations, we look at the opinion of the Teachers' Association, we look at the opinion of the School Leaders' Association, we see that, in different terms, they say the same thing. What we need is an open, friendly and supportive atmosphere in the school. True, the union of school leaders is a little concerned about the fact that this bill doesn't mean that a teacher is granted certain rights by law, but eventually they ask why you don't do your job. This side must also not be forgotten that we are not imposing greater obligations on the teacher, but that we are giving him the opportunity to intervene in a certain way in extreme cases. That is when the situation is getting out of control and becoming very dangerous. The Estonian Children's Protection Association's doubts as to whether a teacher can hold children and trust them and not abuse the rights granted to them are probably for some clear reason, but we must certainly give the school, the whole school family and, above all, the teacher the courage and rights that young people dream of and think about. This also means greater responsibility, for school life is nothing more than obligations and responsibilities given in one of the rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U420	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 729. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 729 amendments, including 28 November at 5.15 p.m. We are closed on agenda item 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U421	13th item: First reading of the draft Law on Higher Education (725 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Science, Mailis Reps, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U422	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We have come to a very important draft, which is draft law 725 on higher education. The Government of the Republic has presented you with a package of draft laws on higher education. The package contains the Law on Higher Education and separate laws for the four universities that still do not have their own law. These are Estonian Academy of Arts, Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, Estonian University of Life Sciences and Tallinn University. The University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology already have their own law. We prepared the reform of the Code of Higher Education in very close cooperation with our good partners. As a result of the multi-annual work, the package is in front of you. Students, higher education institutions, different competence centres, employers' and employees' associations and ministries were involved in this work. The new Higher Education Act replaces the current university law and the law of the University of Applied Sciences; private higher education schools have been introduced into the law of private higher education. The reform of the legislation does not change the fundamentals of the higher education system: free learning, broad autonomy of higher education institutions and three-tier higher education. The aim of updating the Code of Higher Education is to organise and simplify legislation in the field. The current Higher Education Code has been developed in the 1990s. In 20 years, learners and society's expectations of higher education have changed considerably. Higher education institutions are much more capable and important legislation in other areas of law has been added. The draft specifies the issue of the language of instruction. The curricula of applied higher education, bachelor's and master's studies are generally in Estonian. A higher education institution may only open a foreign language curriculum in cases justified by the need for quality or labour. The Ministry shall take account of these reasons when allocating operating grants and shall, if necessary, lay down the conditions for increasing the volume of study in Estonian. The draft will also increase flexibility for students. Graduates of the University of Applied Sciences will continue to be awarded a Bachelor's degree that will support opportunities for further study. An opportunity to open Master's degree programmes of shorter duration has been created to involve people who are working. Restrictions on participation in studies during academic leave have been waived and credits received thanks to previous studies and work experience will be counted towards the amount of study required for free learning in the future. Collaboration between higher education institutions is supported by the simplification of the requirements of joint curricula. In order to link universities and society more closely, non-university members will be involved in the management of all universities. The need for such an amendment is also the most compelling argument for universities in creating four new laws. The governing bodies of universities are the academic Senate, the Council and the Rector with a majority of external members, according to the drafts. The draft law on higher education takes into account the Tallinn University of Technology's proposal to use the Council and the Senate, in the same way as other universities, as the names of the management bodies of the work. Changes concerning academic staff give higher education institutions more responsibility and opportunities to design career models that match their specifics. Instead of the current nine posts of academic staff, the draft mentions four: Professor, Researcher, Lecturer and Teacher. Intermediate degrees are created in higher education as part of the career model. In order to better link learning and research, there is no longer any distinction between faculty and research staff. All academic staff are able to achieve tenure, get promoted and use a semester free of auditory work. In assessing the quality of higher education, the thematic assessment of the overall assessment of study programme groups will replace that aimed at specific problems. The amendment will significantly reduce the burden of assessing large higher education institutions that teach in many different areas. As a consequence of the Higher Education Act, the provisions of the R &amp; D Organisation Act on Quality Assessment and Academic Workers are amended. The existing institutional and personal research grants will be merged into one research grant measure, which will be awarded as different types of competitive grants. At the same time, as a stable source of funding, the amount of basic funding will increase significantly, supporting the consistent development of the research organisation's activities. The general date of entry into force of the Higher Education Act is 1 September 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U423	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U424	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I actually have a complex of questions, everything about learning in Estonian. In short, we have free education in Estonian, but there are a number of subjects or, let's say, curricula that are not at all Estonian. So, in fact, an Estonian person who would like to come to a university of higher education for free may not be able to do so, because one or the other specialty is not offered in Estonian. For example, if a foreigner comes here and studies in Estonian, he gets a free education, but after that, the education received in Estonia will not be "realised" but will go back to his home country. And the third option is that an Estonian young person who has had to travel abroad with his parents and who has studied there in English comes here and has to study in English for a paid position instead of receiving free education as an Estonian citizen. How can such situations be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U425	Thank you. Let us first look at the purpose of the bill. Similarly to the current practice, Estonian-language higher education is free of charge. Now, this very large circle of topics that the good questioner brought to the table, we also had a discussion in committee from one angle or another. And when we look at the common goal, it is clear from the work of this working group, which has resulted in this draft, as well as from the broader social debate. We know what's expected. It is expected that there will be no sneaking transition to English-language education to earn money for the university. To this end, the draft contains provisions on how higher education institutions must ensure free learning in Estonian and in which case English-language education may be extended. It must be justified. For example, it may be necessary to internationalise or invite foreign teaching staff or otherwise improve the quality of education. In fact, it is behind this that the Ministry of Education, as a policy designer, expects us to be able to negotiate with our autonomous universities politely and with mutual respect that English-language education can generally still be realised if there is strong Estonian-language education at the university. Our goal, however, is that Estonian young people do not have to study in English, but receive a very good education in Estonian. Do we have any young people who need to study in English? I have to say, I get a lot of these calls. Usually, these visitors have not just graduated from school, but already over a few years of experience in life, young people who have started higher education, having studied not English at school, but other foreign languages. They have chosen a curriculum, but in order to pass a seminar in one of the compulsory subjects, for example, you must attend a course in which a part or a whole course is taught in English. They have chosen a curriculum in Estonian, but an alien lecturer, for example, gives them his subject in English. Then the frustration has been expressed: they would like to acquire the content of the subject, but unfortunately they are given the subject in English, but they are, for example, German-language backgrounds, usually German as a foreign language background, and their English language is too weak. They're asking you to do something to resolve the situation. We have discussed this, of course. However, we certainly do not want to restrict the use of foreign lecturers. I guess in that case, we need to make sure that they can choose an alternative substance. We certainly cannot say that foreign faculty cannot be used. There's been these dilemmas. Proficiency in Estonian is a very important topic in Estonia. All universities can confirm that they are very active in this. In general, these are young people who are quite quick to adapt, who in fact rarely take additional courses in Estonian. They are actually moving quite quickly to the Estonian language. Exceptions may be shorter master's programmes. If young people come here from the very beginning for basic education, they will be able to follow Estonian lectures during the year, and so will those who have come from quite distant countries. You mentioned a complex of questions. Was there another question? Maybe you'll be more specific later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U426	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U427	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue, in a sense, with the question of my colleague Laine Randjärv, and I will refer to doctoral studies, doctoral studies. We have been worried here that we have too few researchers with a doctorate and that they will not be able to enter entrepreneurship at all, but in today's report of the National Audit Office there was one very thoughtful number. Almost one third of those who study at doctoral studies in Estonia come from another country. They defend the doctoral thesis here and mostly leave Estonia. How seriously has this problem been recognised, and is this Code of Higher Education somehow helping to resolve these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U428	Yes, there is a great deal of awareness of this problem. On the one hand, we are very pleased that our education is of high quality and that we want to come here to study. Young researchers, young doctoral students, study here either throughout their studies or in part. It shows we have something to offer. But, on the other hand, the fact that they're leaving here later is a serious matter. This has been addressed by specialists from different fields and is a concern in terms of economic development, job creation and certainly scientific continuity. People who have come from outside will leave Estonia, but so will our doctoral students born and raised in Estonia. They do the doctor here, but they can't find jobs in Estonia that match their education. Really, there are two serious problems. We are not, in fact, actively engaged in ensuring that a foreigner who has received a higher education or defended a doctorate can continue his scientific or professional work here. That's not what we do in the wider picture. There are exceptions in some areas, but in general this is the case. It's more of a matter for higher education institutions to make sure that someone stays in a research lab somewhere to do research or do a follow-up dock. There is another problem, we have to admit it. Namely, the involvement of people with doctoral degrees in the private sector in Estonia is extremely small or even very small when compared to neighbouring countries. It is rather modest to hire people with PhDs in the private sector to help produce added value. Why is that? The reason is always that the remuneration of these specialists is much higher elsewhere. How do we proceed with this? One way is to pay particular attention to this situation, as is the case here today. It must be understood that this is not just a university issue, it is a broader issue. Here comes our future jobs, here comes our economic development. We have to take this very, very seriously. And there is also a need for a broader social understanding. It's not the Ministry of Education or, I don't know, the EAS problem. This is a problem that we need to find solutions to across authorities. But the private sector issue is very serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U429	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U430	Thank you. In recent times, teachers' salaries have risen considerably, and they are still rising, I think they will soon reach EUR 1300, which was the minimum that can be paid. At the same time, in the higher education system, lecturers receive a gross wage of less than EUR 1000. And it's kind of normal. How much autonomy do higher education institutions have in paying salaries and how much is regulated by the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U431	Thank you, good questioner! The simple and brief answer is that it is university autonomy. The slightly longer answer is that the subject of consistent funding for faculty and higher education is a matter for all of us, not just for universities. We are now at the very stage where we are negotiating administrative agreements with universities. Universities clearly understand that faculty salaries tend to fall behind in competition. We can safely say that more money is needed for higher education. At the same time, financial specialists critically say that efficiency can be further enhanced. I guess both sides are right. However, at the end of 2018, I have to say that there is no very strong increase in the 2019 budget in addition to the general wage increase in higher education. But what these ups are supposed to be, this is a very, very important issue. In part, lecturers can understandably be relieved of the increase in funding in the field of science. This has so far helped to pay competitive wages in a number of areas. In addition, the European Funds and the Horizon Fund have been used. That's why we're doing pretty good. But what has happened now is that deep spikes are formed during inter-programme periods, and that is why we are taking basic funding so strongly. But the subject of faculty and higher education came so vigorously for the first time on the table about six months ago. We need to analyse the situation with universities and the general public so that the message is clearer. I am afraid that so far the message has been a little vague and that is why we have not been able to be convincing enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U432	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U433	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the wider impact of this draft. Higher education is known to be an area in which it competes with almost the world in terms of both academic and research outcomes, but the success of students in the future career path is also important. Universities all over the world hunt for brighter heads, and the results show that universities are ranked globally. My question is: does this bill in any way affect the competitiveness of Estonian universities in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U434	Thank you, very good question! We can proudly say that our national university is very competitive and smaller universities are also quite highly valued in one field or another. So we're good. The aim of the draft is to make universities more flexible in a very competitive way. One of the issues I have already pointed out is that we do not want to give up quality, but all universities admit that quality assessment is administratively burdensome. This assessment was very justified in a situation where we had dozens of different higher education institutions and the state had to intervene forcefully. But for the time being, it is not justified to intervene bureaucraticly and constantly in the life of our very decent institutions, perhaps in this form. We need to give the universities some space to breathe. We have a TASK measure, we want universities to have the right to take into account individual experience, take courses of some kind. So far, we have been very inflexible in this area. Universities have well highlighted the fact that in many countries universities have much greater rights to consider someone's work experience, allowing them to go directly to different levels of education. For example, you come from vocational education, you have certain skills, and you are automatically taken as a result of this third course, or you have a reduced master's programme. In this respect, we are going to be very competitive. Probably a good questioner knows that, for example, one year of master's studies are common in general, which are not used at all in Estonia. The 13-month Master's programme is also being drawn up so that the student does not have to stall for two years. Such more flexible options were discussed very much in the Higher Education Code Working Group. Perhaps some innovative solutions were a little too innovative and did not get into this draft, but most of the proposals that require confidence in universities were taken into account. Some people don't either. As you know, society did not understand how a university could grant a higher education diploma directly from primary school to a university student. But the point was that the university itself appreciates a certain competence. We didn't get that far with this bill. The draft's keywords are significantly more trust and flexibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U435	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U436	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, it is very important for the quality of higher education that the faculty and the entire teaching staff are. I'd like you to open up the principles of quality assurance a little bit. I noticed that according to this bill too, the docents are disappearing. How does this process work? How do they move to professorship or become lecturers? I'm sure there's some kind of danger. How do you see this coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U437	Thank you, very good question! In the working group, this whole issue of human resources was very much discussed, particularly in terms of quality assurance. This change must be flexible enough to prevent us from losing good specialists. Now, docent as such. Yes, the term has not been understood internationally. In general, he is also a professor, I cannot say in Estonian, say, assistant professor or assistant professor. We'll specify the names. So far, docents in international communication have had to explain their position. Now about quality, which is very important. Strong involvement of researchers and lecturers is needed. In fact, we have very few independent research institutions. Rather, researchers are also active as lecturers. Even KBFI, which is an independent institution, is very strongly involved in teaching. How quickly and calmly will this harmonisation go? I'm sure it'll take some time. Each change takes its time. How are we going to see this coming? Universities have now proposed that such a peaceful transition period could be provided and moved gradually. A little bit of tenure, too. On the one hand, competitions must remain and, on the other hand, teachers must be guaranteed stability, given the certainty that they have the right to use this semester of self-improvement. All these changes should make these jobs attractive enough to find the best people who want to have a long-term career. As such, the package drawn up by the working group is very briefly intended. How have there been changes in some universities that have already started implementing it? I'm sure a good questioner knows that, for example, tenure competitions have given rise to quite a lot of talk, and they probably do, but those who have gone through it say that the event is worth it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U438	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U439	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Continue funding universities and teachers' salaries. You said the universities were free to decide on the pay of the faculty. However, they are also limited to national budget allocations. Universities depend on state money, at least for full programmes in Estonian. You also said yourself that this has led to the fact that we have a lot of open English-language curricula because of money. How does the minister feel if we allow universities to charge tuition fees under certain conditions also in the case of Estonian-language curricula? Is this the subject of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U440	Thank you. Under certain conditions, a student does not study full - time. We actually know what universities want. There are curricula where they want to take part-time students right from the start. This has been a serious debate. This topic is also currently on the table at the Ministry of Education and Research for negotiating administrative contracts. Universities want to have a very limited range of subjects, mainly specializations that were the most popular some time ago, such as the right to immediately receive the opportunity to provide part-time education, i.e. paid education. The ministry has been more careful. After all, it is not just a question of raising money; many factors must be taken into account. For example, in these popular professions, receptions have been clearly overexploited in view of the labour market. Very attractive specialties, such as a business manager or some other, have long sold very well on the market, but these people may no longer find a good application and do not recommend studying these specialties so much. We did not say absolutely no to this proposal in the Ministry of Education when concluding administrative contracts, but we are very careful and we are going to negotiate it by millimeters so that this decision does not reopen the overcrowded reception by creating overcrowded auditoriums where, in fact, all parties agree with this clearly suffers from the quality. If you still have such lectures with 300 students simply to take tuition fees from everyone, the current situation, with a slightly smaller and more reasonable amount, is better than this. But now for the funding. Yes, this is a serious issue, on which the debate is seriously institutional. I have already referred to it, but let me put it more precisely now that we have not been able to make it very clear in society why we need to give more money to higher education. There are different arguments against this, which are very convincingly put forward by financial people. In this Chamber, too, there are financial people who can say what these arguments are against additional funding. If the budget is quite capable and there are very large surpluses at the end of the year, it has been asked whether this institution really could not make a significant amount of its own decisions. Within this debate, we have not, yes, been able to prove the need for more funding for higher education; rather, the focus has been on research and innovation funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U441	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U442	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The topic of funding will continue. The funding will now eliminate institutional research grants and personal research grants, and one project-based research grant will actually come. And the Ministry also wanted to revise the R &amp; D Organisation Act (TAKS) together with the Higher Education Code, which could be dealt with in parallel. Where was the revision of the R &amp; D Organisation Act? Is it still in the way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U443	Thank you. Part of the R &amp; D Organisation Act is on this table with the entire Higher Education Code. The initial ambition in the working group was that when the new law was put together, the TAKS would disappear in its current form, but in time it was considered that the R &amp; D Organisation Act regulates the activities of certain institutions so that its abolition could cause great confusion. Universities, too, were afraid that this process would stop. This Riigikogu does not deal with these drafts. Otherwise, the changes that are very much expected in the Higher Education Code and are very much desired by universities would not be implemented as of September 2019. It is therefore ready to come back to certain TAKS issues a little later. So the law on the organisation of R &amp; D has not disappeared from the picture: its certain changes are included in this draft, a larger package awaits further analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U444	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U445	Thank you. Madam Minister! It is very nice that we are updating the Higher Education Act, talking about faculty, language of instruction and curricula. But life shows that many apologize for that word! A university of higher education, want to study law or get, let's say, as a dentist, higher education. But I'm looking at this from a different angle. Let's be honest, we have companies with a technical slope where there is no staff. For two years, the Kohtla-Järve City Government has been looking for a person to deal with roads. There aren't any! They're going to work for big companies where they get a big paycheck. There's no one on Kohtla-Järve to choose from, to be honest. Does this law in any way regulate these things or are there other mechanisms for directing young people towards technical disciplines?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U446	Thank you, very good question! There is a very lively debate in society about whether there should be any stronger measures to target young people in certain areas where the need for labour is high, but which may not be such a challenge. What has been proposed so far and what we will certainly continue to do is try to attract and convince people through various scholarships and benefits. For example, teachers are offered many of them, and we will certainly complement them so that we can get the best young people to choose a teaching profession. In school, too, there is a problem in science. In engineering, they are very concerned about this and are actively engaged in it. What are these measures? Different science schools, for example. I deliberately gave an example of vocational education here. Universities say more and more that they want young people to get practical knowledge early. A lot of people go to high school, but one in three doesn't really learn any further. Students should be involved in cooperation with universities in the past, providing them with practical knowledge, including through vocational education. Otherwise, the Germans wouldn't put much emphasis on it. They consider that certain engineers, middle-level managers, could be trained on the basis of their initial experience. From the seventh grade onwards, students will gain practical experience and, if they see the potential of this work, they will also be able to obtain proper higher education in this field. Such different models in the STEM field are considered very seriously by higher education institutions. At the same time, the ICT sector, which is very, very hungry, provides huge jobs and captures a very large number of smart young people, is also for good knowledgeers of mathematics. We do not propose mandatory referral measures with this bill, although yes, in society we very often hear suggestions that there might be some kind of contractual obligation that a young person who learns free of charge and receives his specialty will work in his field for at least three or four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U447	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U448	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I am addressing the issue of public universities. On today's agenda, we have four more drafts after that. It is, in itself, a little sad that our legislation has gone so far instead of resolving this issue in this very draft. I ask you to make a small comparison, in which case the draft laws that are still to be discussed here today will be different, plus the law on Tallinn University of Technology. How big is their common ground? The difference, I understand, comes from the specifics of every university. Are these differences really so large that separate drafts had to be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U449	Thank you. No, the ambition of this own-initiative group was, from the outset, to make a law uniting higher education laws and, for a very long time, this opportunity was sought. But at one point it was relatively clear that the national university would not give up its law, followed by the decision that the technical university would not give up its law either. Today, of course, this is a first reading and if the Committee on Culture or the Riigikogu are prepared to take such a step that it will implement the Code of Higher Education in general instead of the law of the National University and the Technical University and the four drafts proposed by them, it can be done. In general, it would be possible to change everything you want through the Higher Education Code. The distinction is extremely institutional and intrinsic. The National University has its own law, the Technical University has its own law. And alongside that, the smaller universities that have been mentioned here feel the need for their own law. This is how the Academy of Arts, the Academy of Music, the University of Life Sciences and the University of Tallinn clearly formulated their wish to have their laws dealt with separately here in the Riigikogu. The question was whether, technically and legally, something was preventing these drafts from being merged into a single higher education code. The answer is that it does not, and the Riigikogu has this opportunity. We are certainly prepared to support this in technical terms. But in essence, I think it is impossible to find such a compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U450	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U451	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will continue on the subject that you said that 'financial people' have demanded arguments as to why they still need to increase funding. That's what my question is about. I also think that more money is needed for higher education. There is a need to raise the pay of teaching staff in order to maintain the quality of learning. Has the Ministry of Education and Research, the so-called public sector, for its part, done everything it can to ensure that these arguments exist? Don't we have any duplications? Can we focus enough on the specialties that society expects? It's been a lot of times since this bill doesn't have any direction. What, then, is the state's work? Is it done?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U452	Thank you for a very good question. We are in the process of negotiating administrative agreements. As a result of this process, by the end of 2018, by the beginning of 2019, are we prepared to say that we have managed to significantly reduce duplication? Yes and no. Over the last few years, universities have made major reviews in their fields. The pure statistics on the fields of study show that there are considerably fewer curricula in this area, and a lot of work has been done on this. I dare say that the rapporteur on behalf of the Commission can certainly, in the light of his experience, confirm that universities have worked very hard to do so. But is that enough? Has the duplication gone away? Have all the joint curricula been successful? I have to say, we still have a big job to do. The duplication has not completely gone away, not all are concentrated in the areas of responsibility. On the contrary, it has rather been a willingness to look at the areas of responsibility more widely. For example, does teacher training mean only education in the Faculty of Education or should it be included in all undergraduate studies in certain areas? For example, if a university does not have a responsibility in mathematics and statistics, but at the same time has a responsibility in teacher training and has to train mathematics teachers, should it have a lower level of responsibility? There have been a lot of discussions on such an administrative agreement in recent months, and this shows that we have to deal with this issue together, and we still have to deal with it. So the answer is yes and no. On the one hand, universities have worked themselves and also in cooperation with the country, on the other hand, there is certainly much to be done. Now for the funding. Over the years, there has been a huge change in higher education, we remember; only a few decades ago, we had quite a lot of university-like institutions. There has been a change, consolidation has taken place, there has certainly been an improvement in quality and competitiveness. All this time there has been a very clear desire for our researchers to be involved in teaching. And it's been a pretty long process. Most research institutions have joined universities, and now more funding for research and innovation is precisely what we can actually channel into this money, as well, in addition to the growth in basic funding for higher education. Both sources clearly support funding for higher education. But you have to add a little pepperbread. Surely a good questioner knows that a few years ago, the European Union's resources were opened up to us. Archimedes also distributes money to higher education institutions, but our application process was rather modest. The reason is clearly that it is a little more annoying and complicated to get this money. However, this work should be done so that applications for Archimedes grants are not characterised by the percentages that we currently have. At times, applications for programmes remain at a few percent. It is actually the money that should be used. I guess we're gonna have to do this together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U453	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U454	Thank you. I once again touch upon the autonomy of higher education institutions in the use of money. Does the state in any way foresee any proportion of the amount of money it allocates to higher education institutions, for example, for real estate development, how much to teach, for other activities, or is the university completely free in these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U455	Thank you. Of course, the administrative agreement sets out quite a number of objectives by mutual agreement. The question is, in fact, that too, the TALO has repeatedly raised it, so that the state can prescribe more precisely the minimum wage levels, as they apply to teachers. So far, no such regulation has been introduced by the State. This is possible, while universities take a little care of it. But we are aware of this desire and the Ministry of Education and Universities will certainly take this proposal very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U456	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U457	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will also touch on the four issues of law. I am also very surprised that you still gave in to the pressure of the rectors and went this way to have these four draft laws on the table now. In some ways, when you answered Maris Lauri's question, you threw the ball in the hands of the Riigikogu. I would, of course, like the Riigikogu to be able to reject them. But my real concern is that the level of these little brothers and sisters has gone down terrifyingly. If we look at the University of Tallinn, six of the Institute's leaders do not qualify for five formal requirements for the professor, the sixth, who formally qualifies, is essentially questionable. How did you come to agree with yourself in spirit that you'd be willing to chop off this mediocrity? Because if there's your law, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U458	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U459	...all these mergers and stuff are probably out of order.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U460	Thank you. We have had a very long discussion about whether any public authority, institution, should have its own law or not. I'm gonna leave this argument to the lawyers. The representatives of one school state very clearly that if the university is public, it should have its own law. Is it possible for the Riigikogu to join public institutions? Of course it is. It is clear that such an opportunity will still exist in the future, but we also understand that public universities can only be merged if these institutions themselves see the need to improve quality or for some other reason. Now the little brothers and sisters. Let's start with the smaller, music and theatre academy and art academy. These are very clearly specific bodies that are highly competitive in their area. The Academy of Music is unprecedentedly international, there is a great urge. Rather, the Academy of Music and Theatre has started to think very seriously about how many foreign students it receives. A very high level has come, especially from Asia, and so it is an emergency to find a balance. I can say with a perfectly calm heart that these are very good universities. Yeah, they're small, yeah, they could be together, but because they're so specific, the consolidation analyses say that in reality a merger wouldn't make any real difference. The creation of Tallinn University was also discussed here in the Riigikogu. Many will certainly remember the discussion on whether it is right to create a broad-based university from a pedagogical institute, how many years it will take for it to develop. I must say that a very big job has certainly been done. Tallinn University is a community of most institutions with a very specific background. The current rector has done a lot of substantive work. What he has reached with his team shows that the change that has taken place has been very substantive. I believe that this is a very big change and a rapidly developing institution. There are areas that are already developing very strongly, and there are areas where we are seriously discussing whether the university should continue with them when concluding administrative agreements. The university itself has said that it is prepared to make certain changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U461	Tiina Kangro, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U462	Thank you. Of course, the Riigikogu will hardly join public universities with force here. I myself have worked for some years to be very familiar with university disputes. I know that the accession of the University of Tartu and the Estonian University of Life Sciences, as well as the accession of Tallinn University of Technology and Tallinn University, have been under very serious discussion years ago. I'm just asking you, if these draft laws go through nicely now, will there be peace in the house and there will be no more discussions between the parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U463	Thank you for a very good question. I believe that if you have been in these discussions and seen them from the inside, you know that they have always been difficult. All the consolidations in other parts of the world have shown that accession will only be successful if the authorities themselves understand this need. The signal may come from outside, the arguments may come from outside, but in the end, accession will only be possible if the authorities themselves vote in favour of it. Do I think that at some point, for example, the University of Life Sciences and the University of Tartu will get back to this subject? I assure you, I believe it will be discussed at least a few months. The question of whether it will be discussed at Senate level, at Council level or at a crowded place. That's a question in itself. But also on a very serious level, this topic comes up again and again after a few months. The exact same discussion is, for example, about the merger of Tallinn University and the Academy of Arts just how large the joint section is, whether the joint curricula satisfy the educational demand or whether there should be closer institutional cooperation. But in a way, peace will certainly come to the house. Maybe if you don't have to fight life and death and start analyzing everything more calmly, it's possible. But I don't expect that today. This has not been an objective in itself, but consolidation will only be effective if it is a well thought out objective. In the case of the accession of research institutions and universities, the objective was clear, but it still took several years for these processes to actually work and to achieve positive results. Before that, the changes made the parties uneasy and certainly were not good for the indoor climate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U464	Madam Secretary, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I invite the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Aadu Musta, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U465	Good manager! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. The Committee on Culture has been discussing both the draft legislation under discussion and the subsequent major package of higher education legislation for years. It was interesting to note that a number of the issues raised in this Chamber have also repeatedly been discussed and sought better solutions, whether two, three or four times. We have also debated whether one law is needed or many, and we have come to the understanding that the most important thing is not always to follow a scheme or model. It is said that fewer laws, that maybe it is better then, and sometimes it is said that there must be no parallel curricula. That's what we just heard. I say, as a practitioner, between me firmly and certainly: it is not so important to have so many parallel and competing curricula, but it is very bad to have some universities read their student-time notes, which were written 20 years ago, and to produce newer and better. That's what happens to us. However, the specific draft law was discussed by the Committee on Culture on 22 October. The draft had come to introduce the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, the lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research Indrek Kilk and the head expert of the School Network Department Jürgen Rakaselg. In fact, all the same problems were discussed, so I don't have to go over it. The debate that just ended was indeed long and constructive. A whole series of applied things were asked, just the same thing that still changes. Of course, funding issues were at the centre of the issues. And there were a number of questions, especially about joint curricula. There was also a debate about whether every university still needs a separate law. Finally, it was found that there is a logic that if we compare this situation before these laws were introduced, and afterwards, a situation that is now satisfactory will be good, but not yet God knows how good. And we in the Committee on Culture are used to saying that it is not possible to make perfect laws. Perhaps for a moment, the situation will be ideal, but also on the substance of this draft, I would like to say that on the second day after the adoption of the law, the Commission will begin to discuss what still needs regulation, how we should proceed. Agree that the laws on different areas of education must be renegotiated every four or, if any, every six or seven years at the latest, because the situation in the world of education is changing so quickly. We are not talking about other laws, but let it be said as a reply that we will have an even more painful dispute over the law of heritage conservation. The question is whether the whole quality of a ten-ball evaluation system can make four balls better or wait and argue and leave four balls less high-quality law in force until we reach the ideals. But that's it. I would also like to emphasise that a very large part of the problems that these laws solve were already on the agenda 10 to 12 years ago. Somehow it wasn't ready to make that change. I also remember those times when international models were taken over with great enthusiasm and it turned out that some did not justify themselves. I am now referring to the Bologna system, which, after the Bologna Rector said that it has never done anything to these schools, which you call technicians, according to this model, the University of Bologna. However, we were thrilled to make all sorts of changes. This law, and the laws that follow it, of course, if these drafts are adopted, will take us several steps forward. And the next formations will look and say, oh, why some work has not been done and will continue to do our work. Now, procedural decisions, these most mandatory decisions: to propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda by 14 (consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (full consensus), to propose a deadline for amendments to be set at 5.15 p.m. on 28 November 2018 (full consensus). So the Commission is asking you to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U466	Mr Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture! No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U467	Good chairman of the sitting! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It was good for me to read this bill because it was written in Estonian. That is what I say: in Estonian. I have been a member of various committees, worked in the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, and I have also read the drafts of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and some others. It is impossible for many to understand what they are trying to say, and I have seen a situation in which officials have argued among themselves about what they have wanted to write. But this bill is readable and the explanatory statement is also readable. So thank you, at least, for the quality of the bill in this regard. I am not a member of the Committee on Culture and I do not know exactly these aspects of the debate. As far as I could, I brought myself up to speed. But for me, some questions are still up and I would like to ask the parties involved to explain these choices more in public. Unfortunately, I have the feeling that the parties involved have probably discussed everything in depth among themselves, but in public we have not heard of many things. Something seems to be changing quite a bit. So this is a very big request for me: please speak more about these things in public, so that we don't do anything again, but then we don't know what happened, why happened, and why it's good. I admit that one way or another, I understand why we have four more laws coming up next to the Law on Higher Education, but I don't really like it. It is not because these universities are guilty of something, but precisely because, in the sense of legislation, it seems a little overstretched. I would like this draft to once again consider the subject of the diploma of the joint curriculum. Looks like this thing got messed up. However, as far as I was able to make myself clear, one diploma, one diploma issued by a school, could still be reached in mutual cooperation. I think it is also worth considering whether to extend paid education. Having worked as a lecturer myself, I know that there are people who are willing to pay for their studies. Why, then, do we put this barrier before a person wants to learn and pay for it? It has also been a question of what to do with people with a doctorate. There is concern that they will not be included in the private sector. There are certainly many different reasons here, but there really is a problem that we do not have much chance of obtaining an applied doctorate through applied learning. This issue certainly also needs a broader discussion throughout society. As I said when I asked my question, the key is to a large extent what the lecturers are like. Lecturers must not fall, they must be the best. They should always have the motivation to improve themselves so that the best minds really teach our young ones. Some older people could be among them, since lifelong learning is not just about attending classes. Even as a middle-aged and perhaps older age, a university degree can be obtained and a degree protected. I hope that this bill can still be improved and, in intelligent cooperation, ensure that our university education becomes even better than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U468	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U469	Mr President! Dear colleagues, who still have the strength to stay in the hall! I have witnessed the fact that the Minister of Education and Science in the Committee on Culture once said that the Higher Education Act, which is being updated in the negotiation process, will certainly try to merge the University of Tartu Act, the Tallinn University of Technology Act and integrate the entire grant of higher education into the Higher Education Code. It didn't work. And the result we have on the table today probably scares a lot of people. But the time and opportunities that have now remained at the disposal of the Committee on Culture make me very much doubt whether we can still reverse this process. I mean, high schools expect their own law. However, in this form too, the Higher Education Code is very concerned with matters of principle: all this restructuring of funding, as was said, changes to the law on the organisation of R &amp; D activities, harmonisation of job titles, which is likely to present a great deal of problems in the future. Universities themselves talk about very different deadlines when it can be done, when it can be done. However, there is still a lack of flexibility in the response of higher education institutions to date. And this lack of flexibility is precisely about part-time learning and also about learning as an external source. It is not in a free form now, and it is certainly something that we must seriously discuss whether it can be better organised. A little bit of an evaluation. This is changing, and I very much hope that the assessment of higher education institutions will become less bureaucratic. This is still a very heavy burden, which is currently imposed on universities with multiple and different assessments at different times. It would certainly not be necessary in this form. But what's the most important thing? The most important thing in higher education is the faculty. But the role of a lecturer as a person is unfortunately not even reflected as a shadow in the Higher Education Code. It must be hoped that higher education institutions themselves will return to the fact that it is not only that the lecturer is a good scientist and perhaps also a good lecturer, but also that he is a person. The kind of person who encourages higher education on the one hand, but on the other hand also contributes to our society. For the higher education institution's greatest mission to its country and nation is to train very well-educated society-conscious citizens. In this context, I call on all of you to reconsider what could be the place for setting standards and academic requirements. Does it have to be in the higher education standard, or could it be in the law so that we do not lose in the good quality of our higher education? And what is important is: it would be nice if we once again focused on the problem of how to achieve a move from the academic sphere to entrepreneurship. This is one of the big points in our society about, and if we can make this clogged up with the Code even less, it would be a very big victory and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U470	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 725. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 725 amendments, including 28 November at 5.15 p.m. We have passed the 13th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U471	Let's go to item 14. First reading of the draft Tallinn University Act 726 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please report to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U472	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We're still here today, discussing university laws. The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft Tallinn University Act to the Riigikogu, which is part of the new Code of Higher Education. In-depth discussions took place in preparation of the draft, but many of the proposals put forward by universities are based on the draft. The draft regulates the legal status of the University of Tallinn, the purpose of the activities, the management bodies, the conditions relating to the university's property, financing and graduation. The draft provides for the tasks assigned to Tallinn University as a legal person governed by public law in education, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences, as well as in art, teacher training and educational sciences. According to the university law to date, the university council was an inter-university decision-making body, and non-university members belonged to the Board of Governors, but the university lacked the competence to make decisions that were essential to the university. The draft will make changes in the management of the university and, like other universities, the Tallinn University will be run by the Council, the Senate and the Rector. The university Senate makes all important decisions relating to study, research, development and creative activities. Following the proposals of Tallinn University, the Charter of Tallinn University is adopted by the Senate. In other universities, apart from the University of Tartu, the statutes are adopted by the Supervisory Board. The basis for the formation of the Senate shall be laid down in the statutes of the university. According to the proposal made by the university, 11 members belong to the Tallinn University Council. Five of the members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the University of Tallinn in accordance with the procedure laid down in its statutes and one member shall be appointed by the Academy of Sciences. The Minister of Education and Research also appoints five members, based on proposals gathered from a wide range of partners. The composition of the Council shall be appointed by the Government for a period of five years. According to the draft, the Rector of Tallinn University will elect a electoral body, the foundation of which will be laid down in the University's statutes. The aim of the proposed changes to the governance model is to strengthen the university's commitment to society, to support effective governance and to clarify the allocation of responsibilities on board bodies to enhance the university's competitiveness. The general date of entry into force of the Tallinn University Act is according to the draft September 2019 and the transition to the new governance model of the University will take place gradually until March 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U473	Madam Minister, thank you for your presentation. No questions for you. Please speak to Toomas Väinaste, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U474	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, The meeting of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture (Protocol 206) took place on 22 October. Commanded by Aadu Black, chairman of the commission, in the minutes of Angelika Berg. The participants were Laine Randjärv, Heidy Purga, Heljo Pikhof, Krista Aru, Toomas Jürgenstein, Toomas Väinaste, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Yoko Alender and Merje Noorlind. Invited were Minister of Education and Research Mailis Reps, Deputy Chancellor of Education and Research Indrek Reimand, Head of the Department of Higher Education Margus Haidak and Head of the Education Code Sille Uusna. The fourth item on the agenda was the discussion of the draft Tallinn University Act 726. Procedural decisions at first reading. Aadu Must proposed to deal with the Tallinn University Act, the Estonian Academy of Arts Act, the Estonian University of Life Sciences Act and the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre Act in a single debate and to make only separate procedural decisions on points 4 to 7. The draft Tallinn University Act was the fourth. Mailis Reps explained that university drafts have been delayed, as at the beginning there was a desire to include the laws of all universities in the new Higher Education Act and this has been the subject of a long and thorough legal dispute. During the discussions, however, it became clear that the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology did not wish to give up their laws, so there was no objective reason to refuse to create the laws of other public universities. The Minister explained that the drafts provide for a similar management model for universities, while accepting that each university still has its own characteristics. Laine Randjärv asked about the harmonisation of funding for the Estonian Academy of Arts and the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. Mailis Reps explained that the Riigikogu passed the Act amending the Gambling Tax Act, which introduced the funding of the Cultural Endowment of Estonia for creative professionals, which will be allocated to these universities in the future. Laine Randjärv also asked about the wording of § 3 of the drafts why the two universities' law contains 'leading bodies' and, in the case of two universities, 'university management'. Sille Uusna explained that the difference is due to the desire of universities. Laine Randjärv expressed the opinion that this provision could be the same for all schools. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of 14.11.2018 (consensus), that the first reading be closed (consensus) and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U475	Toomas Väinaste, member of the Committee on Culture, has no questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 726. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 28 November at 5.15 p.m. We've been through item 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U476	The 15th item is the first reading of the Bill 730 of the Estonian Academy of Arts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please speak to the rapporteur, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U477	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We're already halfway there. The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Arts to the Riigikogu, which is part of the new Code of Higher Education. The draft is largely based on proposals put forward by the Academy of Arts. The draft includes the legal status of the Academy as a legal entity governed by public law, the purpose of the activities, the governing bodies, the conditions relating to property, financing and termination. The draft provides for the tasks assigned to the Estonian Academy of Arts in the fields of art, design and architecture. The draft states that the Academy of Arts is engaged in creative research as a specific form of research, which is a research activity with the aim of acquiring new knowledge of man, nature, society and their interaction by creative means. According to the university law to date, the university council was an inter-university decision-making body, and non-university members were members of the board of directors, but they lacked the competence to make decisions that were essential to the university. The draft will make changes in the management of the Academy and, like other universities, the council, the academic Senate and the Rector, who will be in charge of the Estonian Academy of Arts, will lead the Estonian Academy of Arts. The Senate of the Academy makes all important decisions relating to study, research, development and creative activities. The basis for the formation of the Senate shall be laid down in the Statute of the Academy. The Board, which includes external members, shall be responsible in particular for decisions of strategic and economic content, including adoption of the Statute, Budget and Development Plan of the Academy. On a proposal made by the Academy, the Board of the Academy of Arts is composed of nine members. Four of the members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the Academy in accordance with the procedure laid down in its statutes, by one member of the Academy of Sciences. The Minister of Education and Research also appoints four members, based on proposals gathered from a wide range of partners. The composition of the Council shall be appointed by the Government for a period of five years. The Rector of the Academy shall elect, in accordance with the draft, a electoral body, the basis of which shall be laid down in the statutes of the Academy. The aim of the proposed changes to the governance model is to strengthen the academy's commitment to society, to support effective governance and to clarify the allocation of responsibilities on board bodies, to enhance the academy's competitiveness. The general date of entry into force of the Estonian Academy of Arts Act according to the draft is September 2019, while the transition to the new governance model will take place gradually until March 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U478	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There are no questions for you. I invite Yoko Alender, member of the Committee on Culture, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U479	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed here late at night to discuss these important draft laws! The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu discussed the draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Arts on 11 October. All members of the Commission were present. Invited were Minister of Education and Research Mailis Reps, Deputy Chancellor of Education and Research Indrek Reimand, Head of the Department of Higher Education Margus Haidak and Head of the Education Code Sille Uusna. The draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Arts was one of the points discussed in this whole package, some of which you have already heard. I will add a few more questions that have been asked. The speaker here asked about the introduction of university responsibilities. According to the reply of Mailis Reps, certain subjects are included in university laws, but not as areas of responsibility. Indrek Reimand also commented on this from the Ministry, who added that until now there has been no definition of responsibility and this has not been the case in the new draft. In terms of funding, it has been pointed out that key areas of performance funding have been mentioned for the country and we will interpret them as areas of responsibility and they will be agreed in management agreements with universities. In consensus, it was decided to place the draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Arts on the plenary agenda by 14 November and to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 November and the Commission's representative Yoko Alender. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U480	Thank you, Mrs. Alender! You have at least one question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U481	Very nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U482	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U483	Good manager! Good waitress! Just a procedural clarification. Maybe I heard wrong, but the date that it was discussed should be October 22nd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U484	Yeah, you heard right, and you're very observant. Thank you for the correction at this late hour. The date was indeed October 22nd, but the meeting began at 11.10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U485	Thank you. There are no further questions or clarifications. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 730. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 730 including 28 November at 5.15 p.m. We have passed the 15th agenda item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U486	The 16th item is the first reading of the draft Estonian University of Life Sciences Act 727 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U487	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law of the Estonian University of Life Sciences, which is part of the new Code of Higher Education. The draft is based on proposals submitted by the Estonian University of Life Sciences. The draft regulates the legal status of the Estonian University of Life Sciences, the purpose of the activities, the management bodies, as well as the conditions relating to the property, financing and graduation of the university. The draft provides for the tasks assigned to the Estonian University of Life Sciences as a legal person governed by public law in areas related to bioeconomy, sustainable use of natural resources and the development of rural and rural economy. According to the university law to date, the university council was an inter-university decision-making body, and non-university members belonged to the Board of Governors, but the university lacked the competence to make decisions that were essential to the university. The draft will make changes in the management of the university and, like other universities, the Estonian University of Life Sciences will be run by the Council, the Senate and the Rector. The university Senate makes all important decisions relating to study, research, development and creative activities. The basis for the formation of the Senate shall be laid down in the statutes of the university. The Board, which includes external members, shall be responsible in particular for decisions of strategic and economic content, including adoption of the university statute, budget and development plan. According to the proposal made by the University of Estonia, seven members belong to the Board of the Estonian University of Life Sciences. Three of the members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the Estonian University of Life Sciences in accordance with the procedure laid down in its statutes, one member of the Academy of Sciences. The Minister of Education and Research also appoints three members, based on proposals gathered from a wide range of partners. The composition of the Council shall be appointed by the Government for a period of five years. According to the draft, the Rector of the Estonian University of Life Sciences will elect a electoral body, the foundation of which will be laid down in the constitution of the university. The aim of the proposed changes to the governance model is to strengthen the university's commitment to society, to support effective governance and to clarify the allocation of responsibilities on board bodies to enhance the university's competitiveness. The organisation of clinical training in veterinary medicine has been an important task of the Estonian University of Life Sciences. The draft provides that the operating costs related to the organisation of clinical veterinary training are to be covered by additional financing on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Veterinary Organisation Act. The general date of entry into force of the Estonian University of Life Sciences Act is in the draft September 2019 and the transition to the new governance model of the university will take place gradually until March 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U488	Thank you, Madam Secretary. No questions for you. Krista Aru, Member of the Committee on Culture, as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U489	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Bill 727, Estonian University of Life Sciences Act was discussed in the Committee on Culture on 22 October. All the draft laws of the higher education institutions were adopted voluntarily by the rapporteurs and practitioners. I completely volunteered for the draft law of the Estonian University of Life Sciences with the greatest joy. The Estonian University of Life Sciences was founded as its original veterinary school in Tartu in 1848. I will not dwell on all the nuances of the great and respectable history of the University of Earth, because we have met them in the Committee on Culture and we will continue to talk about them. Four issues were decided unanimously by the Committee on Culture. First, it was proposed to put the draft law of the Estonian University of Life Sciences on the plenary agenda by 14 November, i.e. today. The rapporteur was, as I said, a volunteer speaker here. It was proposed that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 28 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U490	Dear waitress, Mrs. Krista Aru! You don't have any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U491	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U492	I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 727. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 28 November at 5.15 p.m. We have passed the 16th item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U493	We have reached the last or 17th point on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre Act 728 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U494	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This is the last item on the agenda, but for the Estonian music and theatre people, it is a real day of celebration. The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, which is part of the new Code of Higher Education. The draft is largely based on proposals put forward by the Academy of Music and Theatre. The proposal regulates the legal status of the academy as a legal entity governed by public law, the purpose of the activities, the governing bodies, as well as the conditions relating to property, financing and termination. The draft provides for the tasks assigned to the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre in the field of music and theatre, as well as the role of the Academy in promoting cooperation with other educational institutions. According to the university law to date, the university council was an inter-university decision-making body, and non-university members belonged to the Board of Governors, but the university lacked the competence to make decisions that were essential to the university. The bill makes changes in the management of the Academy and, like other universities, the council, the academic Senate, and the Rector, who will be in charge of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, will lead the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. The Senate of the Academy makes all important decisions relating to study, research, development and creative activities. The basis for the formation of the Senate shall be laid down in the Statute of the Academy. The Board, which includes external members, shall be responsible in particular for taking decisions with strategic and economic content, including adoption of the Statute, Budget and Development Plan of the Academy. On the proposal of the Academy, seven members belong to the Board of the Academy of Music and Theatre. Three of the members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the Academy in accordance with the procedure laid down in its statutes, by one member of the Academy of Sciences. The Minister of Education and Research also appoints three members, based on proposals gathered from a wide range of partners. The composition of the Council shall be appointed by the Government for a period of five years. The Rector shall elect a electoral body in accordance with the draft, the basis of which shall be laid down in the statutes of the Academy. The aim of the proposed changes to the governance model is to strengthen the academy's commitment to society, to support effective governance and to clarify the allocation of responsibilities on board bodies, to enhance the academy's competitiveness. The general date of entry into force of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre Act is September 2019. The transition to the new governance model will take place gradually until March 2020. Thank you very much for your patience and attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U495	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You don't seem to have any questions. Please speak to Mrs Laine Randjärv, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U496	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great honour to present our last item on the agenda today, Bill No 728 of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre and its first reading. Just as previous speakers have found links to the drafts they are reporting, I am extremely pleased and proud to be able to present this bill here as an alumni of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. The preparations for the first reading of this draft were discussed in the Committee on Culture on 16 and 22 October 2018. At its meeting on 16 October, it was decided to appoint Laine Randjärv as rapporteur for the Commission. A more detailed examination took place on 22 October and all members of the Committee on Culture took part in the meeting. They were invited, as has already been read out here, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Education and Research Indrek Reimand, Head of the Department of Higher Education Margus Haidak and Head of the Education Code Sille Uusna. The Minister presented this draft together with other drafts concerning the laws of higher education institutions. This law is similar to the laws of the higher education institutions previously introduced, but it is special that the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre is the bearer of continuity of the Tallinn Higher Music School, founded in 1919. Thus, the high school will celebrate its 100th anniversary in the coming autumn and it will coincide nicely with the time when the draft law will hopefully be implemented in the autumn of 2019. So, it's a nice gift for the school for the 100th birthday. The Academy is an integrated research, development, creative, educational and cultural institution. Its aim is to contribute to the sustainable development of society and the welfare of the people through high-level international research, learning, development and creative work and innovative services based on it. I am not going to question which bodies run the academy, but I am going to say that at this very word 'organ' it was discussed that § 3 could replace 'Academy Boards' with 'Academy Management' and harmonise it with the laws of other institutions of higher education. There was a consensual proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 14 November 2018, and here we are now. The proposal to conclude the first reading was also consensual and the proposal to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 November also received the support of all those present. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U497	You have at least one question. Mrs. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U498	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Since the Minister here mentioned earlier that the Academy of Music and Theatre is extremely popular among international students, perhaps you can somehow predict whether this bill will somehow affect this process, that many Asian students will come here. Or is it a school so good in itself that they just come into it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U499	Thank you for your question. The Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre is an internationally recognised school and has an exceptionally good lecturer here. Very many indeed come specifically from Asia and come to study various instruments, but also from the field of song and choir management. At this point in my own speciality, such an interesting reflection that there is, in fact, a very big problem with the subsequent growth of choir leaders, because the profession of choir leaders in Estonia may not have been as valued as it could be. We are looking forward to having a big song and dance party for 150 years in the coming summer, but the number of choir leaders is decreasing. The interesting question now is whether those who study choir management and come from other countries could somehow balance or balance the deficit we have. The truth is that a number of choirs who have sought a conductor as they simply do not have a conductor are exposed to a situation where students from Asia, who have studied here and received the invitation of the choir leader, are prepared to come to the choir, conduct and teach songs. But since their education is a foreign language, or English, because they have come from elsewhere, it is very difficult for them to start teaching stories in Estonian to Estonian choirs. So it's quite something to think about. Perhaps there must then be in-depth language training for those who come to learn choir management from outside Estonia. I do not want to say that this would necessarily solve this situation, our lack of choir leaders, but it is such an interesting question. Thank you for this opportunity to present such an improvement here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-14_U500	Mr Laine Randjärv, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 728. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 28 November at 5.15 p.m. We've been through today's agenda. I would like to thank all members of the Riigikogu, the Minister, officials and guests for their positive attitude during this long day. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 21.49 p.m.
