ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good guests! We go to the 15th working week session of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Who has to hand over drafts or inquiries? Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U2	Mr President, honourable representatives, a nice spring day! On behalf of seven members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõnis. The enquiry concerns the start-up of an entrepreneur account. The previous Minister of Finance spoke very sympatheticly and exhilaratingly to us about the business account, about how wonderful it is. It was still a very clear government policy to help and support small businesses. We now ask four questions. The issues are very clear and specific. What, then, has become of this business account, why has it not started? What are the reasons why banks do not have an active interest in this? Why have the preparatory work been so badly done? And the most important question: why did the government allow this and cheat small businesses and those who taught small businesses by making empty promises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Now, presence control, please! 67 members of the Riigikogu are present, 34 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U4	We will go to the agenda on Thursday. The key national question 'Problem of National Responsibility on the basis of the VEB Fund case'. I'll introduce you to the discussion procedure. First of all, the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Karilaid, will present a presentation lasting up to 15 minutes, with questions and answers lasting up to 20 minutes. Next is a report by a representative of certificate holders, attorney-at-law Indrek Leppik, which lasts up to 15 minutes, questions and answers will last up to 20 minutes. Rein Järvell, the liquidation director of the SA VEB, will be next, whose presentation will last up to 15 minutes, questions and answers will last up to 20 minutes. Henn Oit, the auditor of the representative of Eesti Pank, will last up to 15 minutes and the questions and answers will last up to 20 minutes. I would remind you that a member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to the rapporteurs during the discussion. After that, of course, there will be negotiations, members of the Riigikogu and representatives of the political groups can take the floor. There is a request to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups first take the floor. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. So, President of the Legal Affairs Committee, Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pleasure to see such an interest in addressing this issue. Is this a matter of national importance? Only one party questions it, but the representatives of the other five parties do not. The representatives of five of the six political parties supported the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs to hold a debate on a key national issue on the VEB Fund case, with one party's representative then abstaining. In total, four meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs were scheduled to prepare the OTRK. We started on 22 March when Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Artur Talvik Küllik as an alternate Kübariser, Liisa Oviir, Olga Ivanova, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere were present. We continued on 2 and 9 April. On 17 April, we approved the final starting point and the agenda. The representative of the Reform Party, Taavi Rõivas, tried to change the agenda and invite Mart Laari to perform. The Commission's majority did not support this. He also argued that perhaps this issue should not be discussed at all because he himself was very young at the time, at the age of 14, but this argument was also not supported. On Monday, when the Riigikogu approved this week's agenda, 81 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of it, there were no votes against. Therefore, this small political protest falls within the heading of one political party and reflects political fears, not anything else. This is a matter of national importance for two reasons. Firstly, Estonia is a rule of law, but it is not possible to be a rule of law without being a state of justice. When we made a property reform, despite the questionable results, we tried to restore justice. Today's government is still working on this justice, and the principle of justice was not important to the previous government. The question of the VEB Fund is to bring about the same kind of justice. If the Republic of Estonia is unable to establish justice, can it at all claim to the rule of law? The old folks say you don't hide a bum in a bag. Really, on the back of the VEB Foundation, it flashes through the sackcloth in the hide-and-seek bag. The Reform Party is terrified because this returnee may stick it in the most painful place, may reveal that the foundation of this party is laid out in packages of foreign money. Oh, it's not? Well, then, dear colleagues, show me the origin of your party money, R-Maintenance money. What do you have to be afraid of? Any honest thing can be public. Why do you want to cover everything up with the VEB Fund? The Reform Party has now taken up the issue of citizenship. Praise! I congratulate you, good men! But even more, we must ensure the value of Estonian citizenship. Why does a person have to appreciate Estonian citizenship even more from tomorrow? We're told he'll get protection abroad. But shouldn't he also be protected from his own country in his own country? Why, then, do we not value the citizenship of our country as legislators and show that the people of Estonia and Estonian entrepreneurs are protected in this country, where Vahur Kraft, the Acting President of the Reform Party and Siim Kallas, Governor of Eesti Pank, has acted on the basis of a false document? Now the businessmen did the State Reform SA. They defend themselves because they feel that without reform, this country will not protect them enough. So let us show that we are defending entrepreneurship, which some politicians in this country have knowingly damaged. Estonia has helped victims of natural disasters here and there in the world, while the VEB Foundation created victims here at home. Jürgen Ligi can whistle at it, and he and the Reform Party's interest is to hide the story forever, but don't hide the returner in the bag, it stabs and it really hurts. This is a matter of national importance. Today, I'm standing here and I could do other things if I wanted to help cover up, vaccinate and cover up. But I also wish Estonia, but also the Reform Party, the best, a better start. This is possible when we talk about the VEB Fund as openly as possible. Today we are talking about the VEB Fund, because we cannot go any other way if we are fighting for a fairer Estonia, but we have things that have not been negotiated. It's clear to everyone that there are questions about the VEB Fund. This ghost follows us, it goes after the Estonian state and politicians, and it should once be put to a point. Lasse Lehes, assistant professor of financial law at the University of Tartu, said the day before in Postimees: 'I think that certificate holders should have received some form of compensation, how exactly, there would have been variations and there are also options here. The state has been evading responsibility all this time. It is now the unfinished work of the state, it is Eesti Pank, it is the VEB Foundation as a separate foundation, no one wants to assume responsibility. That is why I think it is right to resolve this at the level of the Riigikogu. ' We, the Riigikogu, have this responsibility to stop years of cover-up and damage to the reputation of the institutions. Eesti Pank is a constitutional institution. With the help of Eesti Pank's forged document, more than 32 million dollars were transferred to Russia's margins. Almost half of the claims were granted on the basis of a forged document. Eesti Pank's audit found that Eesti Pank had sent a letter to VEB Pank on 5 April 1995 containing false information about the claim of the Russian resident company TSL International. According to Eesti Pank's audit, TSL International's claim in the VEB Fund was zero, while Eesti Pank's letter of 5 April 1995 showed that TSL International's claim amounted to USD 32.3 million. The letter with false information was signed by the acting Governor of Eesti Pank. The Reform Party has said in a corner that what happened to the VEB Foundation will remain in Vahur Kraft's time, who has no links with their party. We can be quite certain that we do not know anyone who would believe that Vahur Kraft did something at Eesti Pank that his immediate predecessor did not know about in this capacity. To support this statement, the question in the air is why the Reform Party has not done anything to investigate this matter, claiming that only one person, Vahur Kraft, is behind it, but everything has been done to dampen the subject for 20 years. The various coalition partners in the Reform Party government have unfortunately had to compromise and close their eyes on the VEB Fund. The representatives of Estonia's most important institutions are also forced to dimme in order to cover major fraud. The Reform Party has trampled Estonia on the credibility of constitutional institutions and damaged their reputation, turning these institutions into political playthings. At the same time, those who have not submitted, such as the National Audit Office, have been ridiculed. This same party has been saying for ten years that the VEB Foundation is a major political bubble, while at the same time they have politicised the subject by their own inaction. It is also in the interests of the Reform Party that it is not necessary to discuss it again in four years' time. It is only now that we have been freed from the leadership of this party that we can talk about things openly. This is an extraordinary moment when several public institutions, in particular Eesti Pank, are no longer under the control of the Reform Party. The only Governor of Eesti Pank who has formally apologized is Ardo Hansson, a man who is not involved in this matter. When Hansson became Governor of Eesti Pank, Hansson immediately found documents that could not be found in a bank with leaders manned by the Reform Party in ten years. If Ardo Hansson has already found it necessary to apologize on behalf of Eesti Pank, there is no way to say that there has been nothing. So who did he apologize to? His wish has been to improve the reputation of Eesti Pank, and he did so with this step. The party that has built its rhetoric on protecting businesses has acted unfairly and hostilely with business on this issue. It is not a question of compensating companies for their losses, but of paying them back their own money, which was then taken by force. We hope that, unlike the Reform Party, other parties will not repress our own people, our own entrepreneurs. With the agreement of the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, TSL International realised the claims of VEB Pank in Russia in 1997 and 1998 in the amount indicated in the letter of Eesti Pank with false data for 1995, which amounted to USD 32.3 million. Who received this money and how much in Estonia is unknown. The new generation of politicians will be able to evaluate and take responsibility for what has happened. Entrepreneurs' money saved the Estonian kroon and banking. At the 100th birthday of the Republic of Estonia, it is finally time to find a dignified and fair solution for entrepreneurs as well. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U6	Thank you. You have questions. Thomas Paur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, thank you for your beautiful and meaningful presentation. On 22 October 2010, more than seven years ago, the Tallinn Circuit Court issued a judgment obliging the Estonian State, or Government, to compensate for the damage caused to the owners of the VEB Fund and gave it nine months. The decision was not taken by the government. Tell me why. I'll ask you another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U8	There's a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U9	How do you think that injustice should be alleviated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U10	Thank you. Maybe the manager's making a concession. This is still one question, but the questioner bound the two questions into one whole. Yes, the judgment of the District Court came in 2010. The then Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, had nine months to prepare for the execution of this decision; he did not get the job done in time. The fine was EUR 3200, which was paid by the State. But the fact that he whistled to judgment does not prevent him from continuing to act in politics. What to do in a situation where data has been misrepresented and distorted, or not everything has turned out, and then some decision-making bodies make a decision? It is also a political philosophy question: if a body has made a decision, is it the final truth, can it never be reviewed? I think that in a situation where these legal levels have been passed and, in many ways, there has also been misinformation, the ball is in the hands of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu is able to resolve this issue with its own decision. How exactly is this going to happen, we have our own procedures. One draft has been submitted. If, in the opinion of anyone, this draft is not sufficiently precise, it can be clarified and amended, a new and better draft can be presented. But if the total amount of claims was more than $60 million and today we know that the false figures indicate that more than 32 million have been issued, then the share has been received and part has not. I think that's unfair. It is a question of our choice whether we are dealing with it or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that a member of the Riigikogu can ask a question within one minute. Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U12	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! This largest so-called bank robbery in Estonia today has been repeatedly investigated and also here in the Riigikogu. Last time he did that, I remember, Rainer Vakra-led commission. I have to admit, they got a lot further and closer to the truth after all. But unfortunately, it finally stopped because the Social Democrats came to the government. Today the situation is different, the Reform Party is in opposition. Do you think it's possible to get closer to the truth this time or to find out the truth? What arguments do we have in favour of this, these new channels of truth, the information channels? Do you think that the damage should still be compensated by the Estonian state or by the people whose pockets this money was flowing? Of course, the truth is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U13	Yes, I am also convinced today that the longer the Reform Party is in opposition, the more likely it is that it will be possible to get closer to the truth. The fact that the Reform Party has always manipulated and silenced the various issues in power is not a political hate speech that is currently invented, but it is proven, that is a fact. On 3 April in 'Forum', Taavi Kõivas also indicated very clearly to us that if we take up the VEB Fund in this way, they will be involved in the investigation of roubles transactions. This is actually a rerun of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The desire to manipulate and how some reform parties try to make Eesti Pank speak as the Reform Party's office has written it, is the remnant of the Communist Party of Estonia that everyone must sing the same song as they sing. This thinking, unfortunately, is rooted in them. Looking at the Reform Party and at how they behave in this case too, I see them as a security threat to the Republic of Estonia, because they are not willing to accept the mistakes made and draw conclusions, they are not willing to make assessments, they are afraid to disclose all the decision-making processes that highlight their omissions, but of course it is quick to point the finger at others.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U14	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a thank you for bringing this up. A question of self-sufficiency. Five members of the Riigikogu already submitted a draft decision on the VEB Fund on 26 September last year. Our Rules of Procedure provide that the drafts will be brought to first reading within seven working weeks. This bill has not yet reached its first reading. Therefore, Mr Karilaid, I have a question for you. You yourself are the initiator of this bill. The initiator of the bill, Jaanus Karilaid, has the right to assume that the bill will be brought to the hall. How has the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs Jaanus Karilaid held it back because it has not happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U16	Thank you. The victim must always signal that his rights have been violated and he is the victim. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure provide this way, but the five initiators of the drafts themselves have, at the outset, asked for meaningful debates in Parliament to have more arguments and more public understanding on this subject, but only then could we go to the formal procedure of the draft. One of the initiators could have said that now is the time to move on with it. At the moment, we have rather drawn on the fact that we are doing a debate on a matter of national importance, we are listening to arguments and arguments against it, and then the initiators will be able to move forward with the draft, if necessary, or to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U17	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U18	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, you are in a very responsible position. You should sense that in a legal system, it is your role to put forward legal arguments. Instead, you use proverbs (you may know only one or two, because you repeat them several times), you spread gossip, you personally attack your opponents and one party, your whole text is made up of such things. But let's leave it. Please tell me how you legally justify this sentence, that the Estonian state took the money from entrepreneurs. I now ask for a reference to the court documents, not the party program. The state of Estonia has taken away the money of entrepreneurs I see in this argument three or four legal errors. Please try to justify it legally!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U19	Thank you. I'm sure I'll answer that question as well. But I sincerely hoped that when I named your name, you would take the opportunity to explain why the judgment of the circuit court was not complied with in time. Nine months were given to do so. Why did you whistle on it? No, I'll answer the question. But why didn't you care? It's a question of your own, so legal isn't important to you. Then why do you ask? Your inaction caused a fine, 3200 euros. That's a fact. Is this a village gossip? Have I made that up? Is this about you taking the rouble deals off when we're dealing with it, gossip or something? All this is from the archives. When the Riigikogu decided to establish the VEB Fund, wasn't it an intervention in private relations through the Riigikogu decision? Is that gossip? If it has been stated that these steps have stabilized the Estonian financial system and saved Estonian banking, then this is not a village story; these are all facts. More than 32 million dollars were received, and more than half of them were lost. These are all facts. I am talking first and foremost about the principle of justice. I'm based on the principle of justice, that's all that matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U20	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! When I listened to the presentation, I asked about Vahur Kraft and the letter that came to Eesti Pank, or rather, came from Russia. Did the Russians themselves not find out from their own data whether they had to ask Eesti Pank about this money and what made Kraft produce such a false document? After all, Kraft's life has gone very well, not usually when something so high is faked.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U22	In politics, there must also be no doubt, even a corruptant must not seem to be involved in contraband or conspiracy. Vahur Kraft signed this false document, after being the acting judge, after being Vice-President of Eesti Pank during the time of Siim Kallas. It can certainly be argued, as the Reform Party also claims, that it acted alone, that it had no guidelines and that no agreements had been made, but TSL International, who came with his so-called body, presented false information and also identified the audit of Eesti Pank. Did the money move from there to Estonian politics and how much did it move? I think that, unfortunately, our supervisory bodies were not yet sufficiently operational and professional at the time. This may be a political hypothesis, but it is a problem if the Russian special services have a file on one of Estonia's top politicians. If these agreements are made, then our neighbouring country can manipulate this party, and this is a security threat. That makes perfect sense. It should therefore be in the interests of the Reform Party itself to address this issue thoroughly and in depth in order to remove these doubts, so that it is clear: their party is not manipulative from the Kremlin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U23	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U24	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. Very okay. Here's the question. You're suggesting they threatened to investigate the rouble deal. The Rubla deal has been the subject of a very beautiful documentary called Rodeo, where the parties nicely and nicely acknowledge that they carried money from one place to another with buckets and drove cars there and there. Do you think the VEB Fund should be the subject of an analogous documentary? Do you think these guys would dare explain themselves in front of the camera?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U25	People who are critical, people who can read documents and draw conclusions, have actually long known what happened there. Ninety percent of it is known what was going on there. I simply repeat: in power, the Reform Party has always pushed certain issues out of the agenda and wished not to discuss them, otherwise taking another issue on the table. A rare window of opportunity has opened today, and all the issues that, for certain reasons, were left out of the political agenda in the last 10 to 15 years can be discussed because they were not suitable for the narrow world view of the Reform Party. This is one of the factors why it has been so. Is there anything else we should do about the VEB Fund? Investigating journalists Toomas Tenl and Virkko Lepassalu have written about this. Anyone who wants to read these books and scriptures gets a pretty good picture of it. I think that today, first and foremost, it would be necessary for the Riigikogu to go back to all sources and make a decision on the basis of updated information.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U26	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! To be honest, I have come to this Chamber right now to hear arguments and substantive arguments about the title that has been put to the debate on a crucial national issue. Any argument as to what this national responsibility is. What I'm actually hearing right now are the names of Jürgen Ligi, Taavi Rõivas, Reform Party. The whole debate is completely missing the arguments I would expect. Jürgen Ligi asked whether the State had stolen money from the undertakings. I'd like an answer to that, too. You didn't answer that question. I know that money was taken out of banks' balance sheets to save banks. I repeat that question. Did the State actually steal money from entrepreneurs? What are the arguments on the responsibility of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U28	I'll say it again. There's no time to read the report again right now, but I'm sure I'll e-mail it to you. It appears from the report that the state has a responsibility. The State itself has taken responsibility for its decisions by intervening in private relations. Some certificate holders have received compensation, some have not received compensation. There were several aspects. On the one hand, how the constitutional institution Eesti Pank is involved. Eesti Pank has acknowledged this, he has apologized. It was only when he got out of political control that this false document was found. In ten years, when he was under political control, it was not found. If you are suggesting that the Riigikogu's own decisions and the Eesti Pank's audit are not already the national responsibility and have not defined themselves, saying that they will also take responsibility, I do not agree with you. I think that this issue should be continued, precisely on how to restore the principle of fairness from the perspective of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U29	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U30	Thank you. Good waitress! I agree with the questioner that you didn't mention the subject and the title in your presentation, but in your presentation you were very enthusiastic about how bad the Reform Party is. I think your blind hatred for the Reform Party prevents you from seeing that there is no causal link. The VEB Foundation and the Reform Party have no causal link between these two things, but you can't see it because your anger is so great. I was always looking forward to you telling us about the destruction of the Aravete ATM, because Jürgen Ligi was running for office in the same area in 2015 at the Riigikogu. How could you not bring these two things together?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U31	Thank you. Good Valdo, now you're inciting a political hate speech that's not here. Together with reform party Valdo Randpere, we have published a book and only recently. It was The Wreaths of a Closed House. We don't want any of your colleagues coming into that closed house, that's why we're dealing with these things. You already know through these forms of cooperation that there is no such thing as blind anger. But speaking of certain things, speaking honestly, doesn't mean you have to feel a false shame. Of course, it is difficult to talk about problems related to your home party. It hurts, but talking about it makes you feel better. So there's no blind anger. I have already mentioned in my speech that I expect the Reform Party to reinstate, that it will not hold on to its old thinking or say when it comes to problems and cases of corruption, that it is a village story and a fiction. Get rid of this old, ECB mindset, then your party will become more honest and transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U32	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Citizen Karilaid, you personally insulted me and the entire Reform Party. It's hard to call you a gentleman, let's just say that. Your tending speech, filled with holy anger, was essentially an accusation against the entire Reform Party, not against specific persons who knew the circumstances of the VEB, although the vast majority of our party was not involved in this case at all and still are not aware of what actually happened there. The circumstances of the VEB case have been dealt with by the Estonian legal bodies; I think they have made their decisions. Why don't you blame them? Why do you blame the party? Or are you trying to achieve some kind of cover for dirty corruption in Tallinn, which has been used for a long time by representatives of your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U34	Thank you. Unlike the Reform Party, the Centre Party does not hide its heads in the sand. Yes, there are cases of corruption in Tallinn. We'll deal with them, the party doesn't say look at the names of these people, they don't concern us. The party issued a press release on the subject yesterday, and the anti-corruption programme is underway. The party doesn't run away from it. I also advise the Reform Party not to run away from certain problems. If you run away and don't want to talk about the subject, then you're responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U35	Thank you. Your time for answering questions is over. Attorney-at-law Indrek Leppik of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U36	Happy Members of the Riigikogu and Members of the Hall! I've been acting as a lawyer since 1997, and all this time I've had more or less on my desk, including the problems of the VEB Foundation and its people who lost their money. I would like to give you a brief overview of this topic, which I believe is, unfortunately, far from one of the success stories of the Estonian state. The first important point. I would like to explain that Russia's Vnešekonombank had no legal relationship with the creditors of the VEB Fund; even less so, they could have any connection with the foreign debt of the Soviet Union. Unfortunately, we continue to hear misinformation from those trying to muffle the VEB Fund, as if, first of all, in Russia, the VEB Fund certificate holders would have been frozen in the foreign bank of the Soviet Union. Secondly, it seeks to link the repayment of funds to the certificates holders of the VEB Fund to the foreign debt of the Soviet Union and to shift the responsibility for the damage suffered by the certificate holders to Russia. Either way, it's a false claim. First, VEB Fund certificate holders have never had an account or any customer relationship in Russia. They were customers of Estonian banks. Secondly, for the same simple reason, they have no connection with the foreign debt of Russia and the Soviet Union. I will explain this more precisely to all of us on the basis of a familiar and simple example of normal life. All members of the Riigikogu have a bank account, which in turn means the contractual relationship between the bank in Estonia and the client of this bank. If you receive money from a foreign country as a transfer, you do not even know which foreign banks your bank has used as correspondent banks in the world to move money. The transfer made to you is simply reflected in the bank account in Estonia. Even when the VEB Fund was set up, foreign transfers were carried out in exactly the same way. I also have slides that, for technical reasons, have been made available to you, unfortunately, on paper in a box somewhere. I suggest you get acquainted with the slide that characterises these legal relationships. The content of this slide is that Eesti Pank's foreign operation government, the later North-Estonian Bank of Share (as a abbreviation of PEAP) and the Baltic Ühispank (as a member of UBB) used Vnešekonombank (as a correspondent bank in Russia) as a correspondent bank for external settlements. These two Estonian banks had correspondent accounts at VEB Pank and today's certificate holders AS Saare Kalur, Akke AS and others had contractual relations with PEA and UBB, or Estonian banks. Their current accounts received entries from foreign banks to their contractual partners and were only subject to claims against Estonian banks on the basis of settlement agreements. This is also very clear in paragraph 4 of the 1993 decision of the Riigikogu, which I have brought out on this slide. At the time, the Riigikogu clearly separated the claims arising from the bank's clients' accounts and transferred them to the State VEB Fund. The question before the round of questions and answers was how the state took the money. That's exactly what taking money from the state looked like. The National Audit Office has made the same conclusion today; it is not just my position. On page 3 of the VEB Foundation Report of the National Audit Office, the National Audit Office itself asks, "Did VEB Pank freeze the current accounts of UBB and VOV (PEAP) depositors? No, the VEB Bank did not freeze the current accounts of UBB and VOV (PEAP) depositors. The VEB Bank frozen two correspondent accounts of UBB and two correspondent accounts of VOV (PEAP). The depositors of UBB and VOV (PEAP) had current accounts in the bank of UBB and VOV, not in the bank of VEB. ' The National Audit Office also points out that since the depositors had no accounts in Russia and VEB Pank frozen the accounts of Estonian banks, not those of their clients, the possible loss of money was the business risk of the banks and the liability to all customers is equally valid. The selection of the persons whose claims had to be transferred to the VEB Fund was contrary to banking practices and to the nature of correspondent accounts. I will add here the idea of Lasse Lehise, a lawyer, of an interview that appeared in Postimees on Tuesday this week: 'All this defence tactics by the state is built on the fact that Russia took money from bank clients. Russia did not take the money from the bank's customers, Russia took the money from two banks specifically, and then these two banks took the money from their customers with the help of Eesti Pank... ' And a new quote: 'If the Estonian state legalized it by decision of the Riigikogu in 1993, the state must also be held accountable and compensate for these consequences. ' How can the withdrawal of their entitlement from the customers of banks located in Estonia and its repayment by the Republic of Estonia be linked to the foreign debt of the former Soviet Union? I say I can't. The Republic of Estonia, not the Soviet Union or Russia, took the money in the bank from those to whom compensation is provided for in the draft currently pending in the Riigikogu. Let it remain on the conscience of those who, in contrast, try to confuse the matter and justify what has happened. Okay, I'm moving on. Unfortunately, there is the highest level of corruption involved in this issue. Whether it was fatal for entrepreneurs who actually lost money is a question. It is worrying how more than 32 million dollars of Estonian banks' money has been received from Russia with the support of the top officials of Eesti Pank and the Estonian state. Given the number of transactions and the number of people likely to be exposed to them, their position, this is a high level of organised crime. A lot has been said about Eesti Pank's letter with falsified data, which allowed the Russian company TSL International to withdraw $32.3 million from Russia. I would not dwell on this, but I would like briefly to recall the purchase of certificates for the Russian company TSL International, which was dealt with by the National Audit Office. In fact, probably in fear that Russia would at some point release assets belonging to Estonian banks from VEB Pank and so it would appear that almost half of the money belonging to Estonian banks has been stolen, the scheme makers decided to buy these certificates back to TSL International. In a slide made available to you in some way, I have brought out the exact scheme of how the certificates of Eesti Pank, Estonian Maritime Shipping, the Port of Tallinn AS and the Port of Tallinn AS were bought through Eesti Ühispank for more than 30 million dollars. To illustrate this slide, the exact quote from the report of the National Audit Office's VEB Fund: 'In the 1997-1998 period, the claims of the Government of the Republic and Eesti Pank were gradually acquired by TSL International through Eesti Ühispank. In March 1997, the Government of the Republic transferred its VEB fund certificates free of charge to Eesti Pank with an obligation to transfer them. In April 1997, Eesti Pank transferred these claims to Eesti Ühispank, who agreed to take over the loss-making PEP of the state bank, when the state also transfers certificates from the VEB Fund to the Ühispank. Exactly one year later, in April 1998, Eesti Pank sold its VEB fund certificates to the Ühispank. In addition, Ühispank acquired VEB Foundation certificates from Estonian Maritime Shipping companies, the Port of Tallinn and the Port of Tallinn City Centre. ' This text can be found on page 62 of the VEB Foundation report, from 336. All these certificates went to TSL International. The audit of the National Audit Office concluded that this major fraud was a long-term planned activity that had been maimed at the cutting edge. It is also worrying that this crime was covered until the expiry of the limitation periods. Why law enforcement authorities did not pay attention to the wide range of persons on this scale, it would also need further clarification. Everyone will draw conclusions on the level of support needed for this crime, which has become obsolete today, and whether what has happened could have affected the success of companies actually losing money in obtaining their money through the courts. I stress once again that in order to ensure this same scheme, the certificates of Eesti Pank, the Government of the Republic and the companies controlled by the state were also purchased, the Port of Tallinn and the Port of Tallinn. Next moment. In Estonia, there are now, true, two compulsory judgments in force to enforce. The first of these is the decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court from 2010. I represented certificate holders in this dispute. The dispute began in the Administrative Court in 2004. The court did not deal with the complaint on several occasions and we argued to the Supreme Court three times. We argued through all procedural nuances, namely whether such a request could be made in the complaint, whether the complaint had been lodged in due time or not, what the circle of the parties to the proceedings should be. It was only after that that there was a substantive debate. Finally, the certificate holders won. In the judgment of the Tallinn Circuit Court, which entered into force, it was found that the state intervened in private relations with public law measures, thereby assuming responsibility for the proportionality and effectiveness of the above measures. The Court noted that the State is not relieved of liability solely because it has set up a National VEB Fund, which is known to be unsuccessful in making claims against that fund. The Court concluded that the State has all the means and powers necessary to seek a new alternative solution to the situation. It was specifically stated in the judgment that due to the scale of the problem, nine months were granted for the execution of the judgment. Thus, the judgment ordered the State to compensate for the damage suffered by the undertakings, leaving open only the instrument and rate of compensation, i.e. whether the State was chosen to pay the money or to pay the State bonds, and the exact amount, taking into account this long period of time and the specificity of the whole case. This decision should have given the holders of certificates legal rest. The state should have granted compensation. Unfortunately, the Riigikogu at the time decided, probably due to a lack of sufficient information, to sell the property of the VEB Fund and the money from its sale as compensation to the entrepreneurs. As a result, the VEB Fund was notified by the liquidator that their compensation would amount to EUR zero. Unfortunately, by the time the Riigikogu decided, Eesti Pank had not published enough of the whole issue of this major fraud. Decision No 2. I also represented certificate holders in this dispute. The matter came to the General Assembly of the Supreme Court through the Constitutional Review College. The General Assembly of the Supreme Court found, unlike the decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court, that there are no claims from certificates against anyone other than the VEB Fund. Six judges of state disagreed. On the basis of which such a conclusion was reached when these issues had already been cleared up once in the course of proceedings which had been completed by a decision which had entered into force and the General Assembly had no right to review the judgment which had entered into force, it is very difficult for me to reply on the basis of law. I quote from Lasse Lehist, the most popular source of today's speech, who has also produced legal expertise for the audit of the National Audit Office's VEB Foundation, and who this week commented on controversial judgments as follows: 'Accept it, but it is procedurally possible, our judicial system is not so unified in this sense. Depends on how a particular matter is resolved, which is precisely the centre of this dispute. Sometimes these things happen by accident, sometimes by purpose. It is not legally possible to have access to, or challenge, that last judgment. That is why the ball is in the hands of the Riigikogu, which can then either change the laws or solve the matter in the way that is fair. ' There's another quote on this end. Taxpayer magazine Taxpayer published the draft currently pending in the Riigikogu in October of last year and its explanatory statement, accompanied by the following introduction. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Can I...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U37	How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U38	I still have a page of text. Can I finish this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U39	Let's extend the hearing by that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U40	Thank you very much. 'One of the blemishes in the history of Estonian banking is undoubtedly the VEB Fund. In both legal and ethical terms, a mixed issue. The only clear thing about this whole story is that the customers of the banks who lost their money in 1992 have not recovered a cent to this day. Except for one client whose account managed to unwind. In the meantime, it seemed that this would end because the court did not receive assistance, as was customary in such cases, after a couple of decades of trial, it became clear that the victims had turned either to the wrong court, to the wrong claim, to the wrong person, too soon, too late, or to forget important witch's words. " I must have forgotten those witchcraft words when I represented clients in these disputes. This is where I get to my last point. I request members of the Riigikogu to return the funds taken from Estonian entrepreneurs by the state in 1993. It is, good members of the Riigikogu, in your hands. By force, without asking the entrepreneurs affected by the VEB Fund, the funds from the companies were taken away from their current accounts of Estonian banks. How can such a situation even arise in a democratic country? With the money of today's VEB Fund certificate holders, the state saved the banks from the bankruptcy of PEAP and UBB. The rescue of these banks was necessary for the survival of the new Estonian kroon. In 1993, we had a constitution already adopted in the referendum and still in force today. With the decision of the Riigikogu, the VEB Fund was formed, entrepreneurs lost their money, they were only given hopes of a grand theft that we have received today thanks to the honest manager of Eesti Pank. The temporary solution for entrepreneurs is still ongoing, in fact, our own country has stolen them. Does the idea and provision of our constitution support the return of money in this situation or not? What is more human than returning what was taken from a bank account by force? I quote again from Lasse Lehist: 'I think that some form of compensation should have been paid to certificate holders, how exactly, there would have been options, and there are also options here. The state has been evading responsibility all this time. It is now the unfinished work of the state, it is Eesti Pank, it is the VEB Foundation as a separate foundation, no one wants to assume responsibility. That is why I think it is right to resolve this at the level of the Riigikogu. ' Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There is always little allowance for the child, there is always a strain on the family budget, and there is an endless amount of responsibilities on the side of the state budget. The Estonians are not the most busy church people, but one of the Ten Commandments says you can't steal. You have the opportunity to evaluate what has happened, to be honest and to find a fair and dignified solution for businesses. Those certificate holders who have so far carried the burden on the taxpayer's shoulders and have contributed to the stabilisation of Estonia's currency and financial system can be given the money back. You have the solution to this situation in your hands. Whether 100-year-old Estonia is a mature country that recognises its mistakes and gives money back to those who took money to save the Estonian kroon and two Estonian commercial banks, and whether interest is paid for the money of companies that have served public interests from 1993 to today, that is a joint decision of all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U41	Thank you. You have questions. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this presentation. This has been a long case, this has been going on for a very long time, and there have been such claims in the air that since this thing has expired, let's not come back to this. In fact, the last fundamental decisions were taken in 2012 when the Supreme Court made its decisions and when the Riigikogu took a stand in this respect. At the same time, you completed your report by ensuring that the Riigikogu should proceed with this matter. I agree that new circumstances have constantly emerged and should really go on with this. My question is how do you see this thing that the Riigikogu should do, how the Riigikogu should proceed with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U43	Thank you. On the Riigikogu table today there is a bill protecting the interests of certificate holders. These people have been directly deprived by decision of the 1993 Riigikogu of this VEB Fund of their claim against commercial banks located in Estonia under the so-called account agreement. So the first moment I see is certainly that the Riigikogu can remedy this injustice of its own time and return the money taken away. The second point, in my opinion, is broader and very serious in relation to politicians. First of all, how was it possible that during the 15 years, three Governors of Eesti Pank never gave information about this or were unable to identify such a large amount of fraud. Secondly, how was it possible, given the scale of this problem, given that I have always been involved in this subject, that there were claims in the press that dark transactions had been made, in Russia the money has moved away from the correspondent account of these two Estonian commercial banks, how it was possible that, despite such large numbers and such serious issues, no law enforcement authority had started any proceedings before those crimes had not yet expired. In conclusion, I think that this is actually a serious point of thought for the Riigikogu, how to ensure that in a small and rather corporate country like Estonia, the top offices are manned in such a way that these persons are actually in a neutral position so that those who are otherwise perhaps very good do not abuse their position on specific issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, you had a very meaningful presentation that briefed us all on this matter. In his additional opinion to the Supreme Court decision of 30 June 2017, Supreme Court Jaak Luik wrote that on the 25th anniversary of the Constitution he has no right to remain silent in the VEB Foundation saga as a bearer of judicial power. In his additional opinion, Jaak Luik also referred to the position expressed by Rait Maruste, former Chairman of the Supreme Court on 22 March 1994 that justice must primarily be fair. Do you think it will be possible to find a fair solution to this VEB Fund matter in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U45	Thomas Paur, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U46	Thank you. I, too, have realised that this decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court since 2012, which ignored the decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court in force in 2010, created a conflict between the two judgments and led to the legal peace that should have come to our country after seven years of litigation. It's on the heart of a lot of law scientists. It is also evidently on the heart of the judges of the state, because the same judge you have appointed has highlighted the VEB Foundation by expressing a dissenting opinion on several cases, even those that are not related to it, and he has even written poems in his dissenting opinions, very nice. But as far as justice is concerned, here are two views, one is a view back in time, and the other is a view forward in time. As we go back in time, I think we should find out, as far as possible, why it went like this, and as we go on in time, the Riigikogu has all the tools in its hands to make sure that this case gives serious thought, so that it does not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U47	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have any disagreements and you want to discuss them, please do so outside. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I, too, thank you for this explanatory report. But to clarify: how is it possible that two mutually exclusive judgments are currently valid in the Estonian state? One says that the State has a responsibility to the holders of certificates and that the damage suffered by them must be compensated, and the other says that the State does not have that responsibility. Did the judges of the state make their last decision, informed of this great deception?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U49	Unfortunately, the decision of the Supreme Court's General Assembly came from a relatively short distance after Eesti Pank had revealed the facts about this major fraud. It's really hard for me to comment. As I said in my speech today, I cannot explain these conflicts on the basis of law. In the course of the judgment, all procedural aspects were discussed: how can such a complaint be lodged at all, whether such a claim can be made in this complaint, whether or not this claim has been made in breach of the time limit. This whole issue was thoroughly, in detail, passed through the administrative court system. It took years for us to discuss the substance of the matter. This case repeatedly moved up to the Supreme Court, it also went on several occasions on the table of the Supreme Court before a substantive decision was reached. Perhaps some legal scientists have better and more thorough knowledge of this issue than I do, but I do not think that the Estonian country should be as it has now been.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U50	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a question that Parliament decided in 2012 that certificates should be compensated for by the assetless VEB Fund. Although it has been said for a long time that the VEB Foundation has been cross-checked and found nothing, the last committee of inquiry was able to identify the memory loss and falsified documents of quite a number of people associated with the VEB Fund. So every time they investigate, something comes up. I have a question. In 2012, Parliament made a decision, in which I too participated with the knowledge I had at the time. But now, as I said, it has become clear that in reality, someone has managed to get the resources and so on. Was this decision legitimate and must Parliament review its previous decision in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U52	Thank you. In my opinion, this decision was not in line with the final judgment. At the same time, I must admit that the General Assembly of the Supreme Court rejected the reasoning of the judgment which entered into force on the administrative court line, which, according to legal theory, should actually have been taken into account, and the General Assembly of the Supreme Court did not annul the decision of the parliament. So, materially, this decision is valid now, but since it is the decision of the Riigikogu itself, when the Riigikogu today, now and now understands the confusion that comes with this whole thing, it is understood that in reality there was a very simple withdrawal of funds from the accounts of companies by the state, it is understood that the financial system was actually stabilised with this money, that the two commercial banks of Northern Estonia and the Baltic Joint Bank were kept alive at the time, and that, in essence, it understands that it is the financial support that these unfortunate entrepreneurs who have lost money have given to the state for more than 20 years now, then the Riigikogu has every opportunity to take these facts into account and to change and correct its decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U53	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U54	Good manager! Good waitress! You said that this was the highest level of corruption, which, moreover, was maimed with excellence. If so, who formed the criminal union and who led it, are the Prime Ministers of the Republic of Estonia, the Presidents of Eesti Pank or the Presidents of the Supreme Court? Do you dare mention the name of one of the leaders of this criminal organization? Currently, some of the ministers of the Republic of Estonia have been convicted of criminal offences, but since this crime has expired, you can be a little more frank. Do you dare mention the name of one of the leaders of a criminal organization?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U55	Thank you for your question. I, acting as a lawyer, have relatively limited opportunities. I can, true, make all kinds of inquiries, requests for information, but for some reason I am of the opinion that if, as a young active lawyer, I had been busy explaining this matter and sending out enquiries to the institutions about who committed this crime, who led it, who is all 'participants', I could hardly have gotten answers to them given my options. We know who signed the letter with false information sent to Russia. It was Vahur Kraft. Why did I also consider it necessary in my report to pay attention to the fact that the certificates of Eesti Pank, the Government of the Republic and the three companies of the state controlled by the state were bought in order to create the same financial crime? Obviously, those instructions had to come from somewhere. Who gave those instructions back then? I will be honest with you that I have not studied it, but it is certainly a subject that the Riigikogu can address. Just as for me, the question mark is what I pointed out in my speech, why these persons were not identified until the deadlines for the expiry of the crime passed, and why these persons have not been held accountable. But, yeah, no specific names, who gave the order, who simply carried out the order, who had the leading role, I really don't know. I don't have that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U56	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U57	Good attorney Leppik! In view of the previous question, I say that we call things with the right names in beautiful Estonian. You are saying here today that this was a robbery and not Russia has taken money, but the key figures of Estonia, who have been involved in politics for years, have taken money from Estonian entrepreneurs. Is that right? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U58	Thank you. Yeah, that's right. Very simply and vulgarly, business money has been taken away, and this money has not been returned to this day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U59	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Attorney Leppik! Indeed, the National Audit Office, together with the Special Committee of the Riigikogu, identified that all this could have happened only with the help of the then executives of Eesti Pank and North-Estonian Bank. But I have a specific question about compensation. I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't think that any injustice must always be compensated. However, VEB certificates are issued by very different companies. These include those who are "shadow-dead" and who have not appealed to this decision, those who are in principle still in court, as well as the companies you mentioned in Estonia Maritime Shipping, the Port of Tallinn, the Port of Tallinn, in fact, only 10% of the value of their VEB Foundation certificates. How do you imagine this compensation? Will everyone in the future get a " 100%" or those who have received 10% once will receive 90% more, or will only be compensated by those who have been in court to this day? This is a very important difference, and it depends on how we can proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U61	Thank you. In the draft pending before the Riigikogu, the five companies that went to court for seven years and received a positive court settlement within seven years, which essentially obliged the state to grant them compensation. Only the compensation instrument and the size remained open. Given that 10% of the money for the certificates you mentioned was recovered from the sale, I understand that here the Heads of State pulled these certificates together by buying them and by fixing these amounts. I would exclude these certificate holders from the compensation at the moment, they are the Bank of Estonia, the Government of the Republic and state controlled companies. But those who were entrepreneurs who went to court were deprived of the money they had earned in the course of their business at the time, which was about to be paid into a bank account. This caused them very serious problems. In this situation, where the money has been taken away and the so-called price of this money has increased considerably today, I believe that at least those who are beneficiaries of this judgment should return the money to 100% (plus interest) of the decision of the Circuit Court of 2010. If the Riigikogu wants to be particularly fair, it should be thought that these other persons have also left their money very clearly for the good of the state. This opportunity is always on the table to compensate them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U62	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U63	Thank you. Mr waitress, I do not know how you feel after Jaanus Kariladi's very open text, where there were no legal arguments at all, and where he opened up some of his motives as to why this debate is taking place here. Personally, it seems like you're here, a little incredible. You are a lawyer of one side, you have been beaten up regularly in court, you are selectively quoting different opinions and you are trying in the political process as one side of the lawyer is not here; however, it is not a duty to get the money. It was an assessment. The question is this. Most of the requirements belong to AS Imbi (bankrupt). Most of them, according to my records. How much money did AS leave in those banks? And then specify how these his claims arose, most of the claims.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U64	Thank you. I'll start with where you started. Yes, I listened to Mr. Kariladi's speech. I've listened to speeches from politicians before, and I didn't see anything weird in there. Just because I'm a party lawyer, I don't make a secret. I think it is very nice that everyone involved is being heard and that all those involved are being asked for views. There is certainly much more room for decision-making and data in this case. The rules of procedure of the Riigikogu allow us to ask for any opinion from anyone. So I don't see anything unnatural about a representative of these people giving their heads-up. As regards the second part of the question, the requirement of AS A.O.Imbi, first of all I say that Eesti Pank introduced these certification terms at the time, they have been confirmed by the decree of Eesti Pank. According to the decree of Eesti Pank, the certificates were freely transferable. The Government of the Republic and Eesti Pank did exactly the same. If here the entrepreneurs have been called speculators because they have made a deal with a certificate, I do not think that is a very polite expression. Secondly, for A.O.Imbie, what he claimed was purely his own money. It was a company operating in the fuel business, which made joint transactions with its partner in Latvia, and the transaction clearly included A.O.Imb's money. Even if you look emotionally at whose money was actually frozen, that money came from that very A.O.Imb, and there is nothing to blame for this entrepreneur legally or emotionally. If necessary, I can explain this in a calm manner and give more information on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U65	Thank you, good waitress. Ladies and gentlemen, The time for questions and answers is over. Thanks for the report! Please speak to Rein Järveille, the liquidator of the VEB Foundation! Let me remind you that you have up to 15 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Today's debate here is probably a few decades late. Is it still worth discussing this issue? I think it's better late than never. And it's probably a little easier and more relaxed to do it now, because it's been a quarter of a hundred years, and today maybe it's easier to talk about everything, make assessments and maybe take responsibility. Most importantly, the Riigikogu has the power to remedy the illegal activities of the entire government in a broader sense, to restore justice, and to restore faith in the fair functioning of state power. After all, the VEB Foundation case has shown the complexity of building our state and has called into question the functioning of Western liberal democracy in the Republic of Estonia. This debate is certainly not too late today in order to restore public faith. First of all, a brief overview of what took place in 1992 to 1993, which was the economic substance and economic significance of the activities at the time. In 1992 the biggest problem in the banking sector was the freezing of currency instruments in Vnešekonombank, Russia. In Vnešekonombank, some 890 million kroons of different currency instruments had been frozen. It accounted for about 6.2% of gross domestic product in Estonia at the time. If it were to be converted into today's ratios, it would amount to EUR 1.4 billion. This may help you to understand the magnitude and depth of the problem. Today, a misleading claim has already been rejected on several occasions. There the money of Estonian companies was not frozen, the currency instruments of the Government of Baltic Ühispank and Eesti Pank's foreign operations were frozen in Vnešekonombank. Another fact that we do not want to admit and which we talk about very little or hardly at all is that Vnešekonombank granted loans to Estonian residents, mostly then to state institutions or public authorities at the time. We don't even know the exact total amount of loans right now. There has been talk of very different figures, but this sum could have reached 770 million Estonian kroons with secondary claims at the time. Thus, the ratio of Estonian-Russian debts was almost balanced, especially in view of the Russian party's wish to leave Estonia to bear the corresponding part of the foreign debt of the Soviet Union at the time. The negotiations between Eesti Pank and Vnešekonombank on the netting of interbank debts were not successful. The Vnešekonombank, under pressure from the Government of the Russian Federation, wanted to offset the external debt of the Soviet Union in addition to the netting of the VEB loans. The Estonian side, of course, did not agree to this and no agreement was reached. Eesti Pank's position in these negotiations with Vnešekonombank was also significantly weakened by the agreement with Vnešekonombank, which was an agreement between Eesti Pank and Vnešekonombank, which was concluded when the Tallinn Department of Vnešekonombank was separated from the mother bank and based on it the government of the external operations of Eesti Pank was formed. At the time, it took place peacefully, in a spirit of cooperation and according to the agreement, Eesti Pank promised to contribute to the repayment of loans granted by Vnešekonombank to Estonian residents. As a result, there was probably no hope of getting any dollars and stamps from Russia. Rather, there was a risk that the Estonian state would have to pay additional funds to Russia if there were to be agreements. Thus, satisfying the claims of our banks and ensuring the functioning and reliability of our banking system was clearly a problem for our country; it had to be resolved by Eesti Pank in a fair, legal and then efficient manner. Since 17 November 1992 the Bank of North Estonia and the Baltic Ühispank were under a moratorium. Eesti Pank had to take decisive steps to resolve the banking crisis. Eesti Pank has no direct liability to its creditors formally, but for example North-Eesti Aktsiabank was 100% of the junk bank owned by Eesti Pank. In order to legitimise his resolution plans, probably also in some sense to dispel responsibility and justify his next steps, the Governor of Eesti Pank Siim Kallas brought two draft decisions of the Riigikogu to the Riigikogu at the beginning of 1993: 'Issuing of the Government of the Republic's fixed-term debt obligations' and 'The accounts of Estonian banks frozen in the foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union'. These drafts are also clear on the frozen accounts of Estonian banks. Unfortunately, the frozen money of the owners of the certificates of Estonian companies, the National VEB Fund, will be discussed immediately at Vnešekonombank. During the discussion on the issue of government bonds in the Riigikogu, Siim Kallas points out: 'I stress that it is primarily a matter of rescuing customers' money and saving customers, not of rescuing these banks. ' And then: 'Second option: The Baltic Ühispank will go completely bankrupt, which means that customers will receive some 60-70% of the money. ' By the second option, Kallas meant that the National VEB Fund would not be formed, Eesti Pank would save the Bank of North Estonia and bankrupt the Baltic Ühispank. Kallas also told the Riigikogu: 'Therefore, a proposal has been drawn up that the government will release bonds, buying up the VEB certificates that appeared on the balance sheet of these banks. [---] Once the money is recovered, the owners will also get the money back. If they can't, they have this paper that either has something to do or nothing to do. " In doing so, he accepted the VEB Fund certificates as a paper, either to do something about it or to do nothing about it. On 19 January 1993, the Riigikogu adopted a decision on the issuance of Estonian government debt claims, on 20 January 1993 the draft decision "The accounts of Estonian banks frozen in the foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union' was approved, which formed the State VEB Fund. Unfortunately, the Governor of Eesti Pank Siim Kallas failed to comply with paragraph 6 of the Riigikogu decision. This item obliged the National VEB Fund to convene within six months the fund's creditors, i.e. the general meeting of certificate holders, for the selection of the fund's board of directors. This point of decision of the Riigikogu remained until the liquidation of the VEB Foundation, registered as a successor to the National VEB Fund, was governed by a three-member supervisory board, two of which were appointed by Eesti Pank and one by the Minister of Finance. Thus, until its liquidation, the fund remained essentially a closed organisation of Eesti Pank, where the creditors of the fund had no say. The government bonds issued on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu were used exclusively by Eesti Pank and the Government of the Republic to save banks and not bank clients. The customers of the listed bank completely lost their money. Their deposits were compensated by issued papers, which had nothing to do here to the then President of Eesti Pank, Siim Kallas. The failure to comply with the Riigikogu decision and disregarding the interests of the bank's clients would have made it right to dismiss the Governor of Eesti Pank due to a loss of confidence, but this did not happen. However, Eesti Pank had been relieved of its obligations and responsibilities by raising its customers' claims to a fund without rights and without property, which Vnešekonombank did not recognise. The Riigikogu's decision of 20 January 1993 was controversial in terms of its content and vague and legally unclear. The Riigikogu made an urgent decision without realising what the decision was and what the problem should be resolved. Liina Tõnisson, a member of the Riigikogu, a future member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, is a vivid feature of this decision-making process: 'The subject under discussion today is rare in that I believe that there are less than 10 people in this Chamber who dominate the subject, and I am not one of them. [---] After all, the situation with banks is really difficult; none of us precludes it. Since most of us do not have this subject, on behalf of the Central Group, I propose that we stop reading it and organise the so-called hearing, which is the most common phenomenon in most of the world's parliaments. There would be representatives of the Bank of Estonia and the Government, as well as delegates and we could speak our mouths clean and come to an understanding. The one or two questions we can ask the waiters in the hall do not make the problem clear to us. ' The solution proposed by Eesti Pank and enforced by the state to the banking crisis was contrary to what international experts had proposed. This was contrary to the principles of civil law and the Constitution that were in force at the time, as well as those currently in force. The entire rescue operation was unclear, unambiguous and carried out without democratic control. In addition, the management of Eesti Pank also failed to comply with the decision of the Riigikogu in substance, i.e. it was carried out selectively and incompletely, and tried to forget that in reality a large number of bank clients, entrepreneurs specifically aimed at exports at the time, were simply deprived of money. Unfortunately, decisions were taken and implemented which satisfied 100% of the claims of the selected persons, while some of the creditors' claims were completely rejected. To this day, legal persons or their successors have not received a cent for their currency deposits in the Baltic Ühispank and in the government of foreign operations of Eesti Pank. This is the case despite dozens of litigation and even a final judgment, which obliged the Estonian Government to find solutions to satisfy the creditor's legitimate claims. Instead of their lost money, these certificate holders need to hear what they are called'some persons who are trying to extort money from the Estonian state and create a legal framework for it. ' I quote from Siim Kallas again. The decision taken by the Riigikogu could have resolved this bank crisis fairly and legally if Eesti Pank and the Government of the Republic had complied with this decision in accordance with the law in force and fairly. Not allowing creditors to manage the fund, register of VEB Fund certificates held in breach of the requirements, keeping important information on the fund's resources only in the hands of the selected persons ultimately led to an obvious crime. Using inside information, falsified documents, non-existent bank props and transaction confirmations by Eesti Pank, TSL received nearly half of the funds belonging to the VEB Fund from International VEB, or USD 32 million. All this immense disorder and injustice, apparently also violations of the law, are not the fault of just one individual. A number of public bodies should probably draw their own conclusions on this. In particular, the Riigikogu should consider why and how a decision was taken, which may have been contrary to the Constitution. Can I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U67	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U68	The Riigikogu, yes, should consider how it was not possible to guarantee control over the activities of Eesti Pank and to make Eesti Pank comply with the decision of the Riigikogu. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank should consider why it was not possible to control the activities of the Governor of Eesti Pank, why he was not required to comply with the decisions of the Riigikogu and the Supreme Court. It should be considered why the Ministry of Finance and, more generally, the Government of the Republic, being one of the parties to transactions in the management of the VEB Fund and in the fund, allowed such illegal transactions to take place in the State VEB Fund. The least that the Riigikogu can do now is to implement measures to strengthen supervision of the activities of Eesti Pank. In particular, people who are competent in management and are able, at expert level, to understand what is happening at the central bank should be appointed to the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank should not be a convenient place for politicians to retire. And what else could the Riigikogu do? It could make good the damage to those legal persons whose money was once replaced by a certificate from the VEB Fund, or a paper with which there is nothing to do. Finally. We are discussing here in the Riigikogu as an important issue the problem of the liability of the state in the case of the VEB Fund without the main architect of the case and the person actually responsible. We do this because Siim Kallas has said: 'All the explanations are given and the times have changed. ' Siim Kallas has made it clear to us that several committees, courts and audits have discussed this issue. We believe what Siim Kallas said...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U69	Good waitress! Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U70	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U71	You have questions, too. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U72	Thanks to the waitress! Thank you very much for your very thorough and meaningful presentation. You have also been a member of the SA VEB Board and I ask you: when did you discover that some of the money has been lost, some changes in the certificate holder's register? You went to the investigative bodies. Did the DA's office have a chance to start criminal proceedings? What did you say back there? Introduce these facts to Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U73	Thank you. The question was very long and the answer would probably be very long, but I will try to be brief. In 2007, the Minister of Finance appointed me as one of three National VEB Funds or then as a member of the Supervisory Board of the SA VEB. When I first attended the Council meeting, I wanted to see the certificate register. Unfortunately, this was not to be demonstrated, because all the documentation was already managed by Eesti Ühispank at the time. And when we finally got the documents from the bank and brought them to Eesti Pank, it turned out that the register did not really exist, it was not possible to identify which transactions had taken place. And then it took a while for Aili Lindpere, then the head of the foundation, to set up the register, but apparently for some reason he either failed or resigned, so he resigned. Since I had already done some work on this subject, in 2009 I was appointed as the Foundation Manager and I started to organise the VEB Foundation's certificate register on the basis of the existing original documents provided by the Estonian Ühispank. And in the process of scraping these documents, I discovered those letters that weren't actually true and which led to the $32 million ♪ how do I know from where then? be either on the assets of the SA VEB or on certain accounts of the Vnešekonombank.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U74	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U75	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. My question is a little unusual. I mean, war crimes don't get out of hand for them, and the punishment hangs in the air just as long as they come out. How, then, will the crime committed against the state be brought to an end? How can this be viewed as a common criminal case and an ordinary act? It's actually anti-state action.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U76	Thanks to the questioner! I'm probably not the right person to answer that question at all. Other people should answer such questions. But it is probably not a crime against the state, but it can also be taken on a wider scale, rather it was an action against individuals. However, there is no justification for claiming that the current laws did not apply at the time. This behaviour of different treatment of bank creditors or bank clients in bank crises was not acceptable at the time either. Bank customers should have been treated equally. If you are looking for an anti-government crime here, all the activities that have taken place around the State VEB Fund were like a black hole used by North Estonia and Eesti Pank when there were operations to be carried out. The control of this fund was nonexistent, and there were incredible transactions. I mean, it's incredible that... Well, that would be too long a story. I still recommend that everyone read the audit carried out by the National Audit Office on the National VEB Fund. It doesn't have many pages, it's 70 pages thick, and it's all about these things. 70 pages, and on each page you will find one potential misdemeanour or criminal case if anyone had a desire to deal with them in time. So, yes, read the audit of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U77	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U78	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am referring to your last sentence so that a 70-page report can find a number of reasons to initiate criminal proceedings or misdemeanour proceedings. But why is it like running into a wall all the time? Why has nothing been initiated, or is there nowhere to be found? Is the background that, in fact, there was a criminal organisation that led the country and some important institutions, and therefore everything was simply blocked? Is there any truth to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U79	Thanks to the questioner! Well, that's not a question for me at all. I am neither competent nor competent to judge whether there was a criminal group or who has been affected. That's not what I do for an assessment. But why has the prosecutor's office not initiated any investigation on the basis of the facts that are known to the public, published in the press, why the Riigikogu itself has not checked the execution of its decisions and asked Eesti Pank to comply with its decisions, why the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has not checked the activities of the Governor of Eesti Pank, and I have no answer to that. It's a question for these bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U80	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U81	Good waitress! I know that when a good colleague of the Riigikogu, Rainer Vakra, was at the head of the committee which studied the activities of the VEB Foundation, it was also tried to communicate with the key person on the subject, who is often present in Russia, a businessman named Alexander Matt. Matt was the head of TSL International, who probably knows how money moved through his company, what money it was, and who he was communicating with. Now, my question to you as the liquidator of the SA VEB. Do you believe that person was really the key person? What has been his role, and can he or he now influence our politicians?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U82	Thank you. In my opinion, the key players in this whole process were those who possessed inside information, those who had access to a black hole, who had information about it or who even perhaps negotiated with Russia on some level, so that the frozen claims of Russian residents would be released by the Russian government. The managers of North-Estonian Bank, who managed the black hole, kept the register, carried out the register operations, kept the fund's books and had all the information necessary to make certain combinations, wrote the figures in the letters of Eesti Pank that were actually as feasible and verifiable as possible. This circle of people is known. I think Matt wasn't the most important person in the game, he was more of a tool to try to get those dollars from Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U83	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We have been made clear here many times that it was the solo project of Vahur Kraft, and Kallas and Lipstok did not know anything about the whole scheme. How likely do you think it is, and how many politicians could this scheme actually involve? And how many of them are still involved in politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U85	Thank you. That's not really a question for me. I have not been involved in investigating all other transactions and, specifically, in these persons, in any kind of research or surveillance activity, so I cannot provide any exhaustive answers. It is clear that Siim Kallas, the then Governor of Eesti Pank, is the author of the whole idea of the VEB Foundation saga, because he was responsible and had the right to deal with the banking affairs of Estonia, to solve the problems facing the state. And this solution, that it was decided to set up the VEB Fund and leave the customers of certain Estonian banks basically without money, was the direct responsibility of the Governor of Eesti Pank. This should also be borne in mind to what extent both the Riigikogu and the arrangements adopted by Eesti Pank themselves were fulfilled. I am referring to the closed management of the National VEB Fund and SA VEB, the banks were not allowed to access it, and the entire certificate register was kept. After all, Eesti Pank was responsible for this, and the next governors of Eesti Pank were also responsible for this. But on the subject of a real circle of people, I don't want to speculate here about who they were.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U86	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Good Mr. Järvell! TSL was paid $32 million. Have you tried to track what was done with the money? Where did it go afterwards, and is it possible that some part of it came back to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U88	Thank you. This question certainly did not fall within my competence or responsibility when I was the manager or liquidator of the SA VEB or a member of the supervisory board. What happens after the funds of third parties are the responsibility of other bodies or persons. I don't know anything about this, I haven't studied it, I haven't done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U89	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have just shown a thick book where the opinion of the National Audit Office is probably consolidated. Has anyone else audited the assets of the VEB Fund and, if so, how many times and with what result or conclusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U91	Thank you. In the case of the VEB Fund, there was also a statutory obligation to be audited. For years there was also an auditor of the VEB Foundation Deloitte Audit Estonia. I think that, in general, these audits ended with an independent auditor's report, where, at the time, there was a reason for not issuing an opinion. In one report, the auditor stated that according to the management board's assessment, the foundation lacks assets and liabilities, and that on-balance sheet accounts frozen in the foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union and legal and natural persons' claims against the foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union within the meaning of the register have been recognised. 'We have not found sufficient and unambiguous evidence to recognise or record in the foundation's balance sheet the claims relating to the accounts frozen in the former foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union and the liabilities arising from the issuance of the National VEB Fund certificates. Nor have we received confirmation from third parties of the off-balance sheet exposures and liabilities included in the notes to the annual report. Due to the importance of the facts described above, we do not express an opinion on the annual report of the Foundation VEB. " The reason was that the National VEB Fund register was not kept properly from the beginning. It has practically never been held, and certainly not properly. The fund's main balance sheet generally includes the liabilities side and the assets side, but if they are not listed, the auditor cannot express any opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U92	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U93	Good President! Good waitress, thank you very much for a very clear, precise and frank presentation. But I have this request to you: would you say one more time why we have to talk about this problem again today, 17 May 2018, when so many years have passed since these events?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U94	Thank you. I think that this decision made in 1993 in the Riigikogu was not fair. In my opinion, it is the Riigikogu's duty to remedy this unfair decision. I, too, had a question as to why the Riigikogu did not discuss this 20 years ago. So this question is not for me, but rather for the Riigikogu. Why hasn't it been done yet, and why was Eesti Pank allowed to create such a huge mess and confusion? Why is it allowed to undermine the credibility of our country? It's a Riigikogu issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U95	Igor Kravtšenko, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U96	Thank you. Do you think the lack of a register was caused by deliberate action or simply by sloppyness?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U97	Thank you. I have not discussed it or tried to determine which option it was, either sloppy or deliberate. Rather, it was a coincidence of many circumstances. After all, when this scheme was created, Eesti Pank was really hoping that it would be a temporary phenomenon and get rid of this problem, that Russia would receive money and solve it. I think they really believed that. And since all the jobs led either to our government or to Eesti Pank, or it was state companies whose funds were frozen there in Estonian banks, it was a bit of an internal matter. I think that at first the problem was simply rejected, it was expected that time would come and it would resolve itself. But that time didn't come and they just didn't want to deal with it at all. I don't know, I don't think this mess in keeping a register was due to the original plan to create any particular situation. The situation that arose when half of the frozen money was received in the Vnešekonombank in 1995 was, in a sense, unexpected. This was certainly not planned in 1993 when the matter was discussed in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U98	Mr Järveill, thank you very much for your presentation and for answering questions. Henn Oidi, the auditor of the representative of Eesti Pank, next to the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U99	Dear Riigikogu! It has been five years since the audit of Eesti Pank related to the VEB Fund, the events that this audit has been studying, but it has been 25 years. It is a long time, but thanks to the documents we have preserved, we know quite in detail what took place in the early 1990s in connection with the VEB Fund. During the two and a half months, we reviewed more than 15000 pages of the material preserved in the archives of Eesti Pank, VEB Fund and SEB Pank and drew our own conclusions on the basis of the audit carried out at Eesti Pank. The audit was an extraordinary audit initiated by the Governor of Eesti Pank, motivated by a suspicious letter found by the VEB Fund's liquidator Rein Järvelle, which confirmed the existence of a claim of USD 32.3 million from Vnešekonombank for a Russian company that did not actually have it at the time and, secondly, by the liquidator's observation of the difference in the claims and liabilities of the VEB Fund in the amount of EEK 108 million. The audit on the VEB Fund of Eesti Pank has three objectives. First, find out the circumstances of the letter sent out of Eesti Pank with incorrect data. Secondly, find out the circumstances of the difference between the VEB Fund's claims and liabilities. Third, to assess the integrity of the preserved archive material. The latter was necessary to assess the reliability of the audit results, as well as to look for other unpleasant surprises among the preserved materials. In summary, Eesti Pank was able to restore quite well with its audit what was happening with the VEB Fund's claims and obligations, but could not identify why this happened. So, what happened 25 years ago? In spring 1992, the foreign trade bank of the Soviet Union, or Vnešekonombank, announced that it would freeze all the assets held in the correspondent accounts of Estonian commercial banks. Estonian commercial banks had accounts there to communicate with the outside world. In the autumn of 1992, the moratorium of Tartu Commercial Bank was announced, which ended in bankruptcy. As the Deposit Insurance Fund did not yet exist, depositors lost their money. The moratorium of two other banks was announced in November, and then it was because their assets were frozen in Vnešekonombank. In order to avoid the bankruptcy of two other banks in Estonia, it was decided to merge the two banks. Thus, the Bank of Northern Estonia and the VEB Fund were born by decision of the Riigikogu, which brought together all the claims for which a certificate was issued to the owners of the claims. Eesti Pank was the manager of the VEB Fund. However, Vnešekonombank did not recognise the VEB Fund as the owner of the claims, only the Bank of Northern Estonia. Therefore, Eesti Pank soon handed the register to the Bank of Northern Estonia. The information exchange with Vnešekonombank therefore took place through the Bank of Northern Estonia and all changes could also take place at the initiative of the Bank of North Estonia. We know that the assets of the VEB Fund could not be released. The VEB Fund retained the role of registrar for a short period of time. During this period, account was taken of who and to what extent claims against Vnešekonombank were made. In order to confirm the claims, the VEB Fund issued certificates, the holders of which in principle had three options. First, to keep the certificates, in the hope that the VEB Fund will be able to release the assets. Second, sell the certificates. Thirdly, to withdraw the certificate from the fund and try to realise this requirement on its own. One of the objectives of the audit was to assess how well the archive materials have been preserved. Only correspondence registers had been destroyed in the preserved archives, the retention period of which had passed. The letters themselves have survived, but we couldn't find out if all the documents that were originally in the correspondence files were still there. The retained documentation allows for the restoration of all major changes in the VEB Fund register as well as in the accounts of Vnešekonombank until 2000. In general, the decisions of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank have been preserved in the archives, while the background material on the basis of which these decisions were made has not been archived. Also, the parties could no longer recall all the details that had taken place, as the events had already been 15 to 20 years since Eesti Pank's audit. The archive of Eesti Pank was not complete either because the employees of Eesti Pank were also the managers of the VEB Fund in the early years, i.e. they did not exchange letters with themselves. Before Eesti Pank, the National Audit Office also examined the activities of the VEB Fund in 1995 and 1997. The audit carried out at Eesti Pank did not call into question any findings made in the context of the audit of the National Audit Office. Rein Järvelille, the liquidator of the foundation, was also accepted in the Eesti Pank audit, with the exception of his estimate of unknown transactions of 108 million kroons. Järvell claimed that certificates worth EEK 108 million have disappeared from the VEB Fund. Although the balance of claims and liabilities was out of place in the VEB Fund register, it was not an unknown transaction or theft, but a poor record keeping. First of all, some of the entries in the register do not contain all the original documents, but the documents have been kept sufficiently to enable the contents of the transactions to be understood and restored. The audit of Eesti Pank was also sufficient to identify who and to what extent the certificates have moved from. Secondly, the balances were out of place due to the fact that the liabilities were accounted for in kroons in the VEB Fund register, although the claims against Vnešekonombank were in different currencies and the exchange rate of the kroon fluctuated significantly against them, especially the US dollar. This further divergence was due to the fact that the VEB Fund allowed claims in different currencies to be converted into US dollar claims. In addition, it should be stressed that VEB Fund transactions, including poorly documented transactions, were only a change in the VEB Fund register, not a real change in Vnešekonombank accounts. Eesti Pank's audit found that a letter with false information was created in Eesti Pank. What was its contents? This was the answer to an inquiry into the Vnešekonombank. Vnešekonombank was interested in the amount of money held by Russian residents. To them, the Russian bank promised to pay out the frozen funds. The answer from Eesti Pank went out with false information. The sent out letter mentioned four Russian companies that had funds in Estonian commercial banks and whose money was seized by Vnešekonombank. Of these four companies, false statements were made. $32.3 million was written behind the name of TSL International. The audit found that the company had no claim against Vnešekonombank at the time. Why and whose motion the incorrect data of the letter came into existence, the audit could not be identified. We know it was a planned operation. This amount consisted of the sum of the claims of the four claimants. These claim holders were the Government of the Republic, Eesti Pank, North Estonia Bank and the URF company associated with TSL International. These claims amounting to USD 32.3 million were subsequently realised. At the same time, it should be noted that the realisation of the claims required authorisation from the Russian Ministry of Finance and a payment order from Eesti Ühispank. The joint bank had already joined the Bank of Northern Estonia by then. However, Eesti Pank's misinformed letter created undeniably prerequisites for the whole further process. At the same time, Eesti Pank did not detect any plundering of state assets, which has repeatedly sounded in the media. The central bank sold its certificates at market price and the government transferred its certificates to a state-owned bank that was in difficulty. In summary, I would say once again that quite well, what happened with the VEB Fund's claims and obligations was restored, but it was not possible to establish why this happened. As far as possible, Eesti Pank has done everything it can to clarify the above-mentioned problem. Both the audit report on Eesti Pank's VEB Fund and important archive material are available to the public on Eesti Pank's website. In addition to Eesti Pank's audit, the National Audit Office carried out a similar audit. The special committee of the Riigikogu also examined this issue. The results of both work did not call into question any conclusions of Eesti Pank's audit. Thank you for your attention. I am ready to answer questions about the audit of the VEB Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U100	Questions for the waitress. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U101	Thank you, manager. Good waitress, thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. But please also remind the large hall, which may have been the motivation for the special audit organised by Ardo Hansson, the Governor of Eesti Pank! Did the previous governors of Eesti Pank not have such a legal opportunity to carry out a similar audit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U102	I counted the reasons for this audit at the beginning. This was mainly driven by the findings of Rein Järveille in connection with the liquidation of the SA VEB Fund. Previous presidents, except Vahur Kraft, probably didn't know these circumstances. And in the case of Vahur Kraft, I think... Well, I don't think anything. Vahur Kraft is there, he can answer certain questions more specifically. But I imagine that since this money could only be created by agreement between several parties and one party was the Government of the Republic, perhaps Vahur Kraft was quite convinced that it was not a troubled paper. But that is my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U103	Thank you, Henn Oit! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U104	I'm opening negotiations. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes that the representatives of the political groups take the floor first. It is difficult for me to know who wants to speak on behalf of the group. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, I think. If I'm wrong, Jürgen Ligi will. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U106	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Paraphrasing Liina Tõnisson: there are not three people in this Chamber who want to understand this subject and can understand it, but I am among them, and I am also one of those who have done so far, only Mr Oit. There's nothing you can do about it, that's right. The debate as a whole has been a nightmare. We have discussed Estonian language, culture, Estonian science, economics, forest in the format of a nationally important topic, and all of them have been noble topics. And now all of a sudden, chunk, let's discuss the VEB Fund, some kind of past shadow, and put a witch hunt on it! It's pretty depressing! It is quite depressing and humiliating for the whole of Parliament, but above all for the Committee on Legal Affairs and its chairman. As largely free of legal arguments as Jaanus Karilaid did, no chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs has allowed himself throughout the ages. One of the favorite lawyers quoted here to have a broader view was Lasse Lehtis, who has never acted in the interests of the state. He's always been in the interest of getting something from the state. But I agree with him on this subject, in which he is, as if, a great expert. He said some people think you can't talk about deportation. That's right, there are people like that. But the comparison with deportation is right now because the state should, like, take the blame for the deportation and pay for it. In the same line, the fall of the fact that Estonia has to pay for the occupation damage must make up for people's assets that they have not had. These people have been called forced tenants. With the same status, I have lost my home, but I refuse to recognise this status as legal. There are more examples in that line. Now another loss of occupation and the occupation of the Republic of Estonia is as if to blame. It is simply a depiction of Estonia as a successor to the Soviet Union and the ESSR, and it is shameful. In the case of Jaanus Kariladi, it is also interesting to note that he has invited a lawyer from a party who is seriously saying that all parties must now be heard. But only one party's lawyer is present, and this person has been defeated in all the courts, including the human rights court. His arguments are largely non-legislative. It's almost the same mush that Igor Mang offered, gently connected to real life. Most of the presentations today could have been replaced by Igor Mang's lecture. Another name: Vambola Kolbakov. When I first saw Vambola Kolbakov and the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, I remembered Kolbakov's eye view: it was like the view of a person who was caught stealing. I'd seen him ten years ago, we were in a company. He never looked at me like that, but this time he reacted like a caught person. It has to be said that this is the same man who, according to Siim Kallas' testimony, offered for the same purpose of obtaining money from the State relating to the VEB Fund, a bribe, and I do not believe that he did not do it this time, that is my opinion, and I do not believe that Jaanus Karilaid would reject it. That is an additional motive why we are discussing this today. Firstly, the political witch hunt; secondly, I say corruption, and thirdly, the desire to bring a message to my constituency that I have brought you money. I hope no one here goes along with this campaign. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U107	... is nervous, then frankly I hope the last sentence! That everyone gets nervous when the state of Estonia is robbed. I'm not very nervous, I'm just busy, I have little time to prove my legal arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U108	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U109	Mr Oit gave an adequate overview of the legal affairs of Eesti Pank or the degree of confusion related to all this, but this view was, of course, narrow. I am now speaking on the basis of the judicial documents that the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs should actually have done. There is a claim that the State took money from the undertakings. Yes, the country did, but this country was Russia. It's confirmed in court. How many of these people were entrepreneurs is a question of its own. After all, the money was frozen by a decision of January 1992, i.e. before the monetary reform, before the commercial banks of Estonia had the full legal capacity to use one legal term here before any realization of market economy relations. However, these currencies for these accounts were then earned by non-market-economy means, socialist property, currency rights and, unfortunately, by the obligation to keep these fruits in Russia. The state of Estonia did not control the money and could not do anything about it if at one point they were pawned on these accounts. Interestingly, these demanders are all state-owned enterprises, parastate companies and their descendants, whether or not they are. As far as we know, they've all acquired these certificates after. I don't have the opposite facts, I haven't found them anywhere since the cash was frozen. They knew the value of this asset and now they're turning a claim against the state. However, neither the State, nor those commercial banks, nor anyone else, actually entered into obligations as third parties in that they exchanged their money for cheaply acquired, cheaply priced certificates. That would have been a legal argument that should have been mentioned. 32 million is a very exciting subject. We can tell fairy tales here, too, but Mr. Oit has explained it. In fact, the state's assets did not go into use; the fraud was probably linked to the document. I haven't been there, and there's no verdict, but it's probably fake data. However, they did meet certain requirements, and the money was received primarily because it was one of the instruments. Russian residents were entitled to receive money, but the 32 million were not taken away from the others from Saare Kalur, Imbi or others. You have to tell the difference here. When the bank was robbed, it was committed by Russia. This was not committed by the Estonian state. Even this forgery was nothing more than an unfair opportunity to satisfy claims that were real claims. I repeat: none of them were the original owner and they did not have any claims against the state. I repeat: the Republic of Estonia did not expropriate this money and if the VEB Fund had not been created, all this money would have gone to the last line in the bankruptcy process. However, the Republic of Estonia tried to save money with the VEB Fund failed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U110	Thank you, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U111	If the main effort of the Karilides and Kolbakovs is here to show that the Reform Party...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U112	I understand there's more to talk than there's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U113	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U114	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker showed that VEB Foundation is a topic that some people pissed off. Even 25 years after the events, there will be a rather low level of behaviour in this booth, which is known in cases where something is still very wrong. For starters, however, I would like to clarify a little before what Jaanus Kariladi said. He specifically mentioned that I am one of the five who have initiated this draft, which requires compensation for the victims of the VEB Fund. The Karilaid also said the reason why the bill has lingered: that all five initiators have wanted this debate to last longer. I have to say that, at least in private conversations, I have repeatedly emphasised that we are now going to the big hall with this bill, because the closer the elections are coming, the more the VEB Fund can be labeled the subject precisely as an election mother, and in this case the substantive debate is weakening. But I came here to try to answer the question why we are dealing with this matter 25 years later. For a very long time, I was the head of the Special Anti-Corruption Commission and the Head of the Commission that investigated corruption at the Port of Tallinn. I will give an illustration of what came up in the case of the Port of Tallinn. One of these inmates or one of the managers of this company had allegedly passed the city and claimed to be driving in an armored car. It meant he can do what he wants, he has political support. And it wasn't the '90s, it was a few years ago! What do I mean by that? The rope of the VEB Foundation needs to be cut out precisely because a political culture that has left a mark on the entire Estonian business culture will end. It is a slippage, aft from behind the country and a rake, which are unfortunately completely common phenomena also 25 years later. Okay, maybe it's going to be more refined, maybe it's even better hidden than very, very confusing circumstances with the VEB Fund, but they still work. Now, 25 years later, how do you cut that rope? It has not been cut out because the architects of all these dubious schemes, the authors, have not been responsible for these things. All right, Vahur Kraft got caught and at least took so much responsibility that he lost the position of head of a major bank. But Vahur Kraft was not the most important player in this game. Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U115	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U116	It is quite frightening to think about the behavioral patterns that have been discussed here today. And that those who have developed such schemes are still continuing in Estonian politics. All right, it has not yet been proven that part of the frozen money in Vnešekonombank moved to Estonia. We do not know if it has moved to Estonia and if it has moved to Estonia, then to where. But if it ever turns out that the money has laid the foundations for an important Estonian political party, then it is already relatively frightening, let us be honest. Okay, we can't prove it today, but there's still no answer to the question of where the money went, what was done with that $32 million. Yeah, that famous NO Theatre movie title "Where the dust comes from and where the money goes." Today we may be able to answer this question of dust, but where the money went, what was done for it, we don't know. We have been given a great opportunity to cut the rope. As has been said here today, much of the responsibility lies with the Riigikogu. The decisions at the time led to very many people losing their money, in order to save the Estonian kroon or, say, save Estonia from a major financial collapse. So we could chew through or cut through half the rope if this bill, which says that we have to compensate the companies that were then losers, were supported. By doing so, we signal that we recognise that one of the most extremely serious political hogs has taken place in our country. This compensation can be any kind of compensation. I am not going to talk here today about sums, this should be the subject of a general debate. But there must be compensation. Regrettably, however, the other side of the rope is not cut out: we do not have a list of those responsible, a list of the actual architects of the VEB Fund. And we don't know the answer to the question of where the money went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U117	Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly sorry that Jürgen Ligi has run away from the battlefield. But it's typical of his style that says something and then makes it run. He, as chairman of the Reform Party Group, is one of the last political goalkeepers on this subject. I'd like to stop at a few moments that Jürgen Ligi took to criticize. To be honest, his text was like mash and cabbages, like rosolje. He was talking about Igor Mang, talking about Kolbakov's frightened eyes, said that the forced tenants' problem, I got it so understood, there's a pseudo problem. When he passed me, he yelled in my face that I was a corrupt. Arthur Talvik said he's a spaceman, he doesn't have to listen at all. He's a spaceman. And like that, with the briefcase in his hand, he ran away. It is very difficult to have a political dialogue, a debate with such a person. And now we also have a self-proclaimed psychologist who finds out who has scared eyes and who doesn't have scared eyes. I understand him too. In 2010, when the district court ruled, it was his task as Minister of Finance to prepare a solution and bring it to Parliament. He's too late for that. And that is the legal argument that it was fined EUR 3200. Is that a political gossip? Is that a political fiction? No, it's not. But he doesn't want to hear that argument. Why is the Chairman of the Reform Party Group desperately afraid of this issue? He understands very well that if we talk about it honestly to the end, the Reform Party would most likely no longer be in Estonian politics, because we have the connections and doubts that some of the members of this party may be manipulated by a neighbouring country. But we have to talk about corruption, any party, any party. The President of the Reform Party Group denies political ties in the case of Tallinn Port, so-called plastic bag cases, Arsenal etc., etc. There are never political lines in the game, everything is made up, nothing has happened. I stress: the window of opportunity that has now opened to the Republic of Estonia at 100 years of age to clean up the Republic of Estonia and restore justice is then the case of the VEB Fund or the issue of forced tenants. It is a window of opportunity because one party that has dealt with covering up and concealing certain issues and problems is not in power. I don't know how long this window of opportunity is going to be five months, 12 months, more or less. In any case, I wish the Riigikogu strength and strength to take advantage of this wonderful window of opportunity and make fair and caring decisions for the people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U119	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U120	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The picture that opens in this hall is very eloquent. This is very eloquent because those who have actually been involved for 25 years and perhaps more, for about a quarter of a century, are not present in this Chamber. No, it's not! They don't care! No problem, everything's fiction, everything's malicious political propaganda, everything's a lie. But actually, what we heard in this hall today is depressing. It shows very clearly, unambiguously and, in essence, factually the evidence that it has been the extortion, lies and fraud, which has been wiped out by a large-scale national carpet for decades. No man with common sense has any doubt about this, including probably those who are not present in the Chamber. I will be honest with you that the money is, in my opinion, secondary to this case today. Money comes and money always goes more when it comes, but it always comes instead. Money, which was a lot of money in 1993 and 1994, is no longer so much money today. Justice, of course, requires compensation for those who have been deceived, but once again: money is not, in my opinion, the most important thing for this case today. A more important point to this was the previous speaker's fact that, as a result of these machinations, certain Estonian politicians, as well as political parties who have formed a government over the last 25 years, are manipulated by the intelligence services of another state. This is actually a central issue. It's actually a categorical imperative, and sooner or later it's gonna happen. When all these circumstances are finally brought to light, it may appear that this is the case: certain politicians who have served as ministers or prime ministers have been at the head of an important national institution, have been manipulative and directing throughout this period. This explains some very strange decisions made in the Republic of Estonia. When this comes to light, it turns out that we are dealing not only with massive financial machination and fraud, but also with treason. And treason is an accusation that never comes to an end. Perhaps that explains why the institutions of the Republic of Estonia have contributed all the time to ensuring that everything connected with the VEB Fund is suppressed, secreted, delayed, voted down, one judgment replaced by another. Stalin, one of the world's most brutal thugs, was a fine piecemaker. He said, "Isn't it too many coincidences? " At this point, this is a very pertinent observation. Isn't there too many coincidences in this particular case? I am not pointing a finger at any man or any institution to say: this is the root of evil, the thief and the traitor. But in order to dispel any doubt, all secrets need to be brought to light. I think that we, who do not belong to a party that has left this hall, must do everything we can to make sure that these things come out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U121	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U122	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The VEB Foundation saga has also been discussed several times in this large hall. I would like to remind you that the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry held 40 sessions with the National Audit Office, where 49 people from us participated as interviewers. I think that the main thing that hurts the sense of justice of the people of Estonia in this whole thing is that we clearly identified that Russian frozen accounts of Vnešekonombank provided Russian resident TSL International only with the help of the leaders of Eesti Pank and North Estonia. Until then, as the representative of Eesti Pank spoke here, Mr Järvell also spoke, he was an urban legend. It was argued that there was no such document in 1995 that proved that a Russian company had certificates from the VEB Fund for $32 million. In fact, although the company did not have any certificates at that time, it was clear that Eesti Pank had misinformation. But they said it was an urban legend, there's no such document. I think this is definitely something that the people of Estonia do not really understand. How Eesti Pank can formally make false statements, do so knowingly and ultimately participate in the entire scheme related to this money. On the other hand, there is the most painful question that has been asked, both in this Chamber and outside where the money came from. It is clear that the creditors of the VEB Fund were treated unequally. But how and to whom did the US$ 32 million issued to TSL International move? And that's the thing you don't have the answers to. I can assure you that no law enforcement authorities in Estonia have any information about this. Yes, it is possible that some key players at the time may know that answer. They also visited the Commission, but it must be said that their memory turned out to be short, that is, as Riisalu, the Member of the Commission said: at times it seemed frightening that people with such a short memory were managing Estonian finances. But it's not really a place to joke. In practice, the Russian intelligence or legal service or any other authority knows this, but the relations of the Estonian state with its eastern neighbour are such that (a) we can ask them for this information; (b) they can also send us this information, but (c) we cannot trust them, unfortunately. We don't know if they're correct, even if they're sending us the data. That is why this is the most important question, which came forward with this money, without an answer. Unfortunately, I have to admit that neither today's debate nor this future draft will answer this question. There are only two ways to get it. At one point, perhaps our relations with our eastern neighbour will improve and we can really work honestly on judicial cooperation. Or another possibility: that the few or three-four people who are familiar with the individual details of this entire scheme will write sometime before they go to the angels, the book, or they all speak honestly from the heart. These are the only two options. As far as this bill is concerned, I regret that Mr Leppik has left the room, that he is giving interviews, that the state decided to save the banks from bankruptcy and chose an unusual way to raise the accounts of Estonian companies to the VEB Fund, was reasonable in my opinion. The idea of the state to save our banks and the Estonian monetary system was wise. Unfortunately, entrepreneurs who actually, and not at all voluntarily, contributed their money to this are still deprived of this money. I think that there are no people in this Chamber and beyond who do not think that the principle that any injustice must always be compensated must apply in this case as well. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U123	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U124	On the other hand, it makes me ask with a loud voice such a concern that, as far as this compensation is concerned, I am convinced that all those who suffer damage should always be treated equally. At the moment, we have here a draft which ultimately highlights only five companies that have gone through the courts. In fact, the number of enterprises concerned is clearly longer. We can, in principle, classify these companies into three categories. First of all, companies that at that point understood and then so it was a newspaper paper with a value of zero. They gave it up, the companies were sold, and the loss was accounted for as a loss. The second part of it has been discussed differently here, but at that time it caused great trouble and it seemed to all other entrepreneurs that they were huge winners, for example Estonian Maritime Shipping, the Port of Tallinn and the Port of Tallinn, who sold their certificates to TSL International for about 10% of the value. All companies would have been satisfied if they had received 10% of this newsprint. And now we have companies on this table who, according to the bill, should get 100% of the value plus dividends. This is certainly an issue where we need to think very carefully in this Chamber, on the basis of which we are compensating, and on whom we are compensating, so that we ultimately do not harm anyone and treat all beneficiaries equally. I think this will be a very serious debate in this Chamber on how to proceed from here to here. But in the end, I am convinced that many people have already said here that, as sad as it may seem, such a debate should have been in the Riigikogu hall a few decades ago. Then it should have gone further and called for a more in-depth debate, because it may be too late today for many answers. Nevertheless, there is no harm in repeating it too much. This topic is, in itself, very complex, and there are, as I pointed out when I started my speech, very important moments in which the sense of justice of the Estonian people is clearly violated. But as far as compensation is concerned, the principle should be that we do not harm anyone. If we make amends, we must always remember that those who suffer damage must be treated equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U125	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U126	Mr President of the sitting! I thought I wasn't going to talk at all about what's going on today. Everything has been said and I have nothing important to add. I would have liked to say a few words to Jaanus Karilaid, but he just left the hall. Hopefully he'll read the verbatim. In fact, Mr Karilaid, who is a member of the outstanding commission and undoubtedly the most influential member of the current government's leading party in the Riigikogu, began his introductory presentation today, speaking in a reasonably understandable, understandable manner to a quite Estonian, with the words 'righteous' and 'justice'. Indeed, those words are related. He argued, among other things, that what has happened in this area was not fair. That's not what I'm dealing with, maybe that's how it is. But he claimed that Estonia is not the rule of law. Here is the problem that such an influential person should not use words so incorrectly because it is amplified in society. First of all, the truth is that the word "justice" is a later artificial word. There has been a time in Estonia when the word 'righteousness' probably meant both terms to the people of Estonia. It's only later that there's a difference of meaning. Now, the word 'right' has quite a variety of meanings in Estonian, but the word'state of law' has only a specific meaning. And not only in Estonian, but also in international constitutional law has a specific meaning. We have received this word as a translation from the German language, where it sounds Rechtsstaat, but more has it come into use under the influence of the English expression rule of law. So, what are these things? It is a certain political concept, quite rightly, it is the same political ideal that is stated in these languages in these words. And what is the content of this ideal? Its content is two sub-principles. The first is that if a public authority or a public official is doing his job and makes some kind of decision in the course of the work, he must comply with existing laws. And the state must strive not to leave room for 'free decision-making'. The law should prescribe how decisions must be made, how they must be reached. That's the first principle. The second principle is that, in principle, the state must, both theoretically and practically, give any person who does not like a decision taken by a public authority or a public official, the opportunity to protest, object and, if necessary, sue. These are the two things that determine the rule of law. In fact, there is a third thing that lawyers do not say directly, but what is important in practice. Indeed, the rule of law can only be a bureaucratic state. And a bureaucratic state, not in the sense of the Soviet era, when bureaucracy meant that a public official was doing his job badly. Then they said it was bureaucracy. In a strict sense, however, bureaucracy means that the principle of the functioning of the state means that all the actions of the state, from how the decision is prepared, have been recorded in writing until the final version of the decision. This means that the process of reaching a decision is fixed so that everyone can control it. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U127	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U128	And since the right to appeal or protest cannot be otherwise realised, it must also be possible to verify how the previous work process or the decision-making process took place. So, in fact, there are two general principles and then this third, the principle of bureaucracy. Whether Estonia is a rule of law is the main question. I've asked you this before, and now I'm asking you again. And in answer, I say that Mr Karilaid was definitely wrong. Estonia is the rule of law. There are some problems from time to time. The last serious problem has been that we have had the opportunity to sue illegal decisions made by councils. This is one particular problem of the rule of law that we have had, but it is a relatively small problem. Mr Karilaid probably meant the problem that, if we have the rule of law, is it the direct conclusion that all the decisions of the state are fair? Or, on the contrary, if a decision seems unfair to anyone or is generally declared unfair, does it testify that there is no rule of law? Unfortunately, some decisions may be tragic for someone, but these things are not related. In one country, there may be a rule of law more or less, but at the same time everyone may be quite dissatisfied with the fact that the results of the state's work are not fair, that the results of the state's work are not intelligent or meaningful. Unfortunately, these things are not related, although in Estonian these words call to be put together. The final comment is that Estonia is certainly both a bureaucratic state and a rule of law at the moment. But we already have such an experience in history. This regime came to us once during the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Sweden was, in its technical capacity, a fully bureaucratic state, as well as a full rule of law. When after 1700 the territory of Estonia went under Russia because of the conquest, the rule of law ceased to exist for at least 150 years, and came back gradually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U129	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U130	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen. I wasn't planning on speaking, but I just remembered Heldur Tõnisson. When I became the editor-in-chief of the Luub and we talked in Stockholm, he gave me the task of systematically examining the corrupt schemes that flourished in Estonia especially in the early years. What did I find out today? That, at a higher level, there has been corruption that was maimed with excellence. I found out there's some kind of black hole and some kind of characters who've been controlling them for years. And what happened? There were incredible transactions, and on the basis of the 70 pages of Rein Järveille, a wholesale of both misdemeanour and criminal cases could be initiated. But when we asked Eesti Pank's auditor, whose speech was interesting like all the presentations, why did this happen, there was no answer to it. I also did not receive an answer to the question that, when it came to a higher level of corruption, which was maimed at the very top level, who was part of this criminal organisation and who was in charge of it. Prime Ministers of the Republic of Estonia, Governors of Eesti Pank, Governors of the Supreme Court? Maybe someone else? Yeah, I remember a guy on the Arkturt Port Committee who told me how he drives like an armoured car. Yeah, these guys are driving in an armored car, and they've been doing it for a long time. We have said a lot that there has always been corruption in Tallinn, one case and the other one has come to light. That's what happens when someone's in power for a long time. The Centre Party has really been in power in Tallinn for a long time. But there is another side: one company has been in power in the country for a long time. And they say relatively little about these things. Remember when we were talking about Mr Burkhardt at the time of the buy-back of the Estonian Railway, but the state prosecutor's office decided miraculously that there was nothing wrong with it, a completely empty thing. Remember what happened to Silvergate? The boys were carrying money, but then it turned out to be nothing! It's probably how it works, but you can't accept it. In fact, some ministers of the Republic of Estonia have been convicted of criminal offences, but this is also the top. One of them is former Minister of the Environment and leader of the People's Union Villu Reiljan. Villu Reiljan has one such colourful saying, which has been quoted a lot: he said that there is tilted force in the organs. It's ridiculous. But listening to today's debate on a matter of national importance, I remembered that. What if it is? A good colleague, Jüri Adams, said that Estonia is a rule of law and there is nothing like that. What if it is? I am reminded once again of the talks with Heldur Tõnisson about high-end corruption in the Republic of Estonia, which we should be dealing with and what we were doing in Luub. In retrospect, we could say that we did not have enough experience and even studying abroad did not contribute much. A few more minutes, if you don't mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U131	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U132	Now is really a chance to start looking a little further. I think that's actually the way it is: some guys have been driving out of an armored car until recently. And there are in the organs, because the machination has taken place at the highest level, a 'inclined force' that really shouldn't exist. And as a result, many things are blindfolded. The talk about the rule of law is, of course, beautiful and I would like to believe it, but on the subject we are discussing today, I am beginning to think that, unfortunately, this is the case. Is there any way we can move on here? Of course, the Riigikogu has actually been turned into a rubber stamp. Unfortunately, it is, but I have not given up hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-17_U133	I will close this item on the agenda. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.54 p.m.
