ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. The Tuesday session of the 16th working week of the VIIth plenary session has begun. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U2	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I have an inquiry to make to the Minister for Social Protection Kaia Ivala about the availability of tools for the development of children with disabilities, actually necessary for life. We were motivated by the concern of parents of children with disabilities. They have repeatedly called on the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Board to draw attention to the problems of access to aid instruments and to a very large number of special procedures. In carrying out these special procedures, however, they risk taking the next step, which is a challenge, as a result of refusals. Unfortunately, these arguments also usually receive a negative answer. This whole process is very difficult for the parents of children with disabilities and even humiliating. In May, a story about Jasper, whose parents have had to go to court against the state to protect their children's rights, has run through the press. When I spoke to this father, I asked him what we were talking about, i.e. how much money. It is 380 euros. This is not a reasonable situation. In order to get answers to these burning questions a little more widely, we have asked the Minister six questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U3	On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and we process it as usual in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. It has to be said that there was not much to be heard about what Monika Haukanõm said, but fortunately, we also have a written text. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 78 parliamentarians take part in the meeting, no 23. Our colleague Raivo Põldaru is also present, whom we congratulate on today's birthday. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U4	Today's first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Holidays and Celebrations initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Reform Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group, the Social Democratic Party Group, the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Group and the Estonian Free Party Group. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 591. Before that, there's a sally. Are we ready to vote? Thank you! I vote on the draft law amending the Holidays and Festivals Act initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, the Estonian Reform Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group, the Social Democratic Party Group, the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Group and the Estonian Free Party Group 591. Please take a stand and vote. There were 67 in favour of the bill and 5 against, with three abstentions. The draft law amending the Law on Holidays and Celebrations initiated by the Estonian Central Party, the Estonian Reform Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group, the Social Democratic Party Group, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Estonian Free Party Group has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U5	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu 'Mart Laari Appointment of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank' presented by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid. I would like to ask for a presentation by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U6	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 65 (7) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 7 (1) of the Eesti Pank Act, the Riigikogu approves the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The President of the Republic of Estonia makes a proposal for a person. This is what the President did: on 19 April and also on 19 April he received a draft decision from the Riigikogu. We discussed this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 14 May. Questions were asked during the debate, Mr Laar also took part. I'm going to read you these questions and answers in terms of just, uh, the protocol and the verbatim. It won't take much time. To begin with, it sounded twice or even three times that Mr Laar, we are not asking for a bad attitude, we are asking in order to make it clear to the group why you should be supported. The question was asked why the VEB Foundation Mart Laar was created at the initiative of the first government and confirmed in the Riigikogu, and whether the Riigikogu had to consider the VEB Foundation as a matter of major importance. I'll explain that it was asked before we discussed the VEB Fund here. Mart Laar replied that, according to him, articles written and published on this subject during the last year could be helpful. At the moment, the VEB Fund is not a topic for Eesti Pank; it is a topic initiated by the Riigikogu. At the time when the Government of the Republic supported the creation of the Fund, there was a banking crisis. It was asked to clarify whether the VEB Fund was the right and successful initiative. Answer: When supported by the Government of the Republic, he thought it was a good initiative. In what has been done later, the government and Eesti Pank no longer have a role to play. An opinion was requested on fiscal policy. Mart Laar pointed out that his position was dissuasive and added that he had published an article on fiscal policy in the newspaper Äripäev entitled 'Now I will sing'. It was subsequently also forwarded to the Commission. An assessment of the changes to the tax system was requested. According to Lar, as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, he does not have the right to express his opinion on tax matters, but he promised to forward an opinion article on the matter. It was noted that according to the law, Eesti Pank is responsible for advising the government on important economic policy issues. The government of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank was asked what advice is given on fiscal policy. The answer was that the Governing Council did not make any recommendations; this was done by the bank's management under the supervision of the Supervisory Board. It was asked to describe this contradiction that, on the one hand, Eesti Pank is part of the European Central Bank, which has agreed to participate in the purchase of bonds and thereby to stimulate the economies of the Member States, and, on the other hand, the government is advised that it must collect reserves and act more efficiently. According to Lar, the Board of Eesti Pank has no opposition to this position. Finally, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank was asked whether it had an opinion on closing non-residents' bank accounts. According to Laar, many topics will arrive at the Bank's Supervisory Board, as the Governor and the management of Eesti Pank will give an overview of their plans and activities. The topic of non-residents is included in the six-month work programme and comes on a separate agenda. This closed the debate and resulted in procedural decisions. One of the proposals was to bring this draft decision to the Chamber by today, 29 May. The second proposal was to put it to a final vote. Thirdly, it was necessary to find a Commission waitress, which only had problems with the fourth bang, on the proposal of Jürgen Ligi, agreed to be chairman of the committee. Before that, the three members of the Commission who attended the meeting categorically refused this honour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U7	Peter Ernits opens a round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U8	Good manager! Good waitress! I received a letter this morning from Hans H. Luige. He says: 'Laar does not understand anything about the necessary control of commercial banks in Estonia. In my opinion, as an entrepreneur, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, led by Mart Laari, has not guaranteed proper supervision of the banks. ' He is here talking about the investments made by Swedbank in Romania,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Under no circumstances were they supervised. And my question to you is, as Chairman of the Monetary Commission, do you agree with Hans H.Luig's view that this man doesn't understand a thing about finances and shouldn't really be in this place?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U9	Assuming Hans H.Luik agrees to bring this correspondence to the public, please respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U10	Thank you. As a rule, I very rarely agree with this entrepreneur: our world views are as far apart as possible. In this case, I would like to remind him that we do not choose the chief executive officer or director of a commercial company - we are acting in accordance with the law of democracy. Democracy rules were established in ancient Greece, after which they existed to some extent in ancient Rome. I am reminded of a fine example of how all of this worked in Rome, for example. There were jobs where people were elected under the law of three children. I mean, when you had become the father of three children, you were given a job in this big city. Considering that the word 'proletariat' comes from the word proles, which means the person who gives birth to children, it was well - founded. Mart Laar has several political parties, at least the names they have given birth to and have finished. Why would he have fewer rights than one proletarian representative in ancient Rome?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U11	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U12	Thank you. Well, that was a poetic discussion. As far as I'm concerned, Mart Laar doesn't have three children. There's a lot of people in this room who cross him several times the number of children. So we have half the hall full of people who could also run as chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank if taken by the number of children. But my question is about the committee's discussions. Was the Commission also discussing how many books Mart Laar of Forest Brothers has written about this for five years? Wouldn't it be more reasonable for him to apply for a writer's salary instead of becoming chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U13	Thank you. No one asked that question. We have some rather tense agendas lately, and God would give us within this two-hour period to discuss these issues, which are directly relevant to the subject. So maybe we'll talk about literary issues later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U14	Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U15	Thank you, manager. Good speaker! Is it true that at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a party representative tried to subjugate Laari's political rhetoric to his home party? And then did Laar parle it and show that he was still a party-crosser?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U16	Thank you. Yeah, something like that happened there. But the situation calmed momentarily, as it turned out that Mart Laar's views are now similar to those of the articles he sent us, as well as those of the Reform Party that we have signed and under which the government operates.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U17	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will look at the protocol from 2013 when the appointment of Mart Laar was the same as we have here today. Then you were very critical that we didn't have a candidate in front of this hall. And when I look at Kadri Samson's speech from 2013, he also protested. Samson considered it normal that Mart Laar did not take the floor in this Riigikogu and did not stay longer than during the check-in period, but he was sorry that Laar gave up his right to speak on that occasion. How has the situation changed? Why are we discussing this again today so that the candidate is not here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U19	Thank you. The candidate shall choose whether or not to come before the Commission and the Chamber. He's gonna make a statement, and then they're gonna make all the arrangements. I hope I don't have to talk about what everyone already knows. I was also negative about whether he should necessarily be brought to the Commission. Thanks to you, colleagues who wanted to see him and ask him questions, Mart Laar came to the committee meeting. But probably no one has given him their special wish to see him here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U20	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U21	Thank you. I could not understand why it was so difficult to find a person in the Committee on Monetary Affairs who would be willing to report this point here today. You said people categorically gave up, and you are obviously against your will here. When it comes to such a strong candidate and a person who knows banking, why does reporting this point cause so much discomfort?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U22	Thank you. This is a question that would arouse passion not only in this Chamber, and I do not want to answer it honestly. I didn't have a choice, I'm the chairman of the committee, and the committee waitress has to be, which is why I'm standing here. Why people who were offered to serve as a Commission waitress did not agree to this, ask them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U23	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress, Chairman of the Commission! This gives the impression that there is a well-established nomenclature in Estonia, which includes people filling certain posts for the term of office. Would the Centre Party have supported Mart Laar's candidacy as chairman of the council even if you were in opposition? How have you now developed such a strong, hot sympathy for the candidate you were very active against? Is it a double morale?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U25	Thank you. On your question, as always, logic limps. The fact that the President of Estonia proposes to appoint Mart Laar as the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank does not mean that before that, the President of Estonia consulted the Centre Party and the Centre Party put this candidate in his head. It's not like that. Secondly, we must vote here and it is possible to decide who is in favour and who is against. At the same time, you have no idea how the political groups will tune themselves towards the future Governor of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, because voting is secret. So it's hard to answer the question, where's the hook? It is even harder to answer the question of where the hook should be, but where there is really nothing, because it is absolutely illogical.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U26	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The question is this: how does the candidate for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank view the VEB Fund saga? What opinion did he give? Did he take any position: approved it, slandered it, or favored the study? Does he make up some kind of new group in a good way, who's gonna be looking into it in depth?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U28	Thank you, dear colleague. You probably didn't hear my report, during which I read the minutes. I didn't recount it, but I read the minutes that included two questions about the VEB Fund and Mart Laar's answers to these questions. So with your kind permission, I wouldn't go over it. What Mr Laar has said since the Commission sitting and outside the Commission sitting is not the subject of today's debate, at least not the answer to the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U29	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U30	Thank you. In the past, the Eesti Pank Act stipulated that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board must have at least a higher education in finance or economics. Do you think it's right for anyone to be chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank right now? There is no need for any professional skills or experience for this important profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U31	Thank you. It is a little late to talk about this subject, he has been chairman of this council for five years. I would be deeply disappointed in Mart Laar if he hadn't learned anything in five years. Besides, it's a pretty common practice that no one's gonna be vexed with. I admire those people who have run three or four ministries in their careers. In a good case, they have a higher education that is not a definite condition; it may not be in at least one area; the rest are likely to have no experience. But that's the way it is. There are two ways to build a career: one is more a business career, where everything really depends on your education, knowledge, skills, etc., and the other is a political career. This big philosophical question is how the 600 smartest Estonian people who apply to the Riigikogu become one of the stupid gangs the next day after the elections, when you read the media, listen and look at the comments that sometimes come. The same is true of elected places. If there is no such requirement, although it really makes sense to talk about it even in high-level places, then we cannot measure his skills, knowledge, etc. with a ruler. So it's what it is. If you are chosen, experience, education and skills are irrelevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U32	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U33	Mart Laari's presence as Chairman of the Supervisory Board has been characterised by Estonia's tolerance, gentleness, good-heartedness and understanding of all kinds of money laundering schemes. Each Agency shall have a background check. I did a background check for Laar, read the mole of the Republic. The muuli writes on pages 194.206 of the Rubla transaction, the actual content of which is the purest sanctioned state money laundering, plus direct cheating on the contractor, which Laar has had to admit. Does the presence of a person like Laari, even near a state bank, not only within it, do the basic authority of all Estonian banking, our banking system, in the international arena, especially in a situation where we are going to talk about issues, etc.? Laari's activities will then be assessed in international markets with ratings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you heard that there was a question I had to answer in the meantime. I'm not going to remind you of anything, but, yeah, it's kind of a shame. When I looked at the house that I had on this subject, I don't have Laar's books about forest brothers in the library, but there are two books about him. He's standing on one cover with a shotgun in his hand. So we all have a lot to remember. The question is that people are changing and Laar has been chairman of this council for five years. If you look at the explanatory statement, which is also signed by our president, it highly appreciates his tolerance and his ability to run one thing or another at critical moments. Hope is only on this particular person. So you're gonna get more material if you really read through that explanatory statement. But to appreciate how what happened 20 or 30 years ago could affect what happens in five years' time, no one can. So I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U35	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U36	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There's been a lot of negative sound in this Chamber about the candidate we're appointing. His presence on the Swedbank Council has been mentioned, while plots were bought in Romania, for which there is not much money today, and so on. Why don't you pick it up and tell us three or five good reasons why all the others who are not part of the coalition and are not involved in this agreement should support this candidate? Praise him in your own words!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U37	Thank you. The peculiarity of this issue is that I have nothing to say to you about what the Commission thought, for example. The Commission's decision is to put the draft to a final vote. There is no information that is to be accepted or accepted or opposed by anyone. It's the choice of a person that's secret. You'll have a chance to praise him after I leave. The representative of your group can come and give five reasons why Laari should be approved. For example, you can bring them to us, or the EKRE will come here and tell the story. So I owe you an answer again, I don't have to say it. I am telling you about what happened in the Commission, and I am trying to be most benevolent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U38	Martin Repinski.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good colleague Mikhail! As far as I know, the seat of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is the only seat in Estonia where the Riigikogu appoints or elects a person. What is your opinion on whether there should be more or vice versa of such Council Chairs, such an obligation should be abolished? Why is this now the only position in Estonia to be filled by the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U40	Thank you. My head turned automatically to where my colleague Adams should be sitting. I do not know what point the founders of the Constitution have put into this particular section (i.e. § 65), why we choose the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and not others. Perhaps this is because it can be imagined as any organization falls apart or disappears, but it is not possible that Eesti Pank will disappear. So if anyone ever begins to process the Constitution in order to change something, this proposal is quite conceivable to review those councils in which the Riigikogu could really speak on the subject of who should lead them. But that's what the Constitution says now, and that's how it stays.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U41	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You indicated in your answers that it is not appropriate in this Chamber to comment or to talk about the things that the honourable candidate has said outside the Commission. Can it be said that even if what is happening outside the Commission is wholly negative, what is important is what he said in the Commission, which in turn is a sufficient argument to bring this draft to the vote in this Chamber and to confirm that things are credible? It seems a little strange that what a person says and writes does not seem to be important for this post.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U43	Thank you. We are free in our speeches. If someone says he's the Commission waitress, then of course he can talk about what the hell knows, including what's going on outside the hall, no matter what. But in this case, the question is very, very delicate. Once again, I'm trying to be neutral as much as I can. For me, it may be easier to follow the law, which gives me the opportunity to comment only on what happened in the Commission. Once again, after my performance, there will be a debate round here, where you will be able to say everything you want to talk about. After all, the Commission had the opportunity to ask Mart Laar everything they wanted to know. But that's what all seven questions were about, do what you want. I would personally end the debate here on how difficult or complicated the relationship with the candidate is with one or the other member of the committee or Riigikogu. I'm not gonna comment on that again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U44	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U45	Thank you. Good waitress! There are still situations where politicians, going to the next hunting grounds in the Riigikogu, are later in high-ranking positions. Liisa-Ly Pakosta is our Commissioner for Equality and Jaak Aaviksoo is once again making a nice career in the higher education landscape. Mart Laar, having been appointed Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, also received such a dignified position. For these people I have mentioned, there is a clear line that is important. The fact that they have left the Riigikogu is no longer involved in politics, but are engaged in the profession that they have been invited to hold. Including Eesti Pank as an independent institution, it should have distanced itself from politics. What is your assessment of the last five years of Mart Laar's term of office? Has he distanced himself from politics or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U46	Thank you. It seems to me that he has, after all, been distanced from politics. I'm not a Mart Laar fan, and I don't follow her every day. But thanks to this meeting in the Commission, for example, I read two of his articles, which are rather opinions, looking at their volume: 'Progressive income tax would hurt everyone' and 'Now I will sing'. On the basis of these two articles, remembering how he performed earlier, I can say that in the case of Mart Laar, this means that he has left politics. He can't keep his mouth shut, so he won't show his views. I'd like to see what you'd do if you decided at some point to go into business. So, in my opinion, we have many officials who, in fact, should not take the floor in the political debate according to their profession, much more than Mart Laar has done. Someone might take it as a commendation, but it's just my opinion on the situation I put in place according to my views. That's my vision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U47	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have to admit, I have two feelings about this point. On the one hand, Mart Laar undoubtedly has favors before the Republic of Estonia; he deserves respect for his work as Prime Minister in a very difficult time. At the same time, I remember the first time he was given a mandate. At the time, I did not hesitate for a moment that seemed very logical and very reasonable. Today, five years later, I'm a little distracted by these five years. I am disturbed by the silence of Mart Laar when the requirements of budgetary balance are violated; it has been deafening to me. I don't quite agree that he's left day politics, but I realize that maybe none of us can finish it. My question is: how much can Parliament at all give to the candidate or the bank board of directors to be, among other things, the watchdog of budgetary policy, if you could say so, regardless of who is currently in power?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U49	Thank you. The last two questions go sideways with each other. I understand that Hanno wants the chairman of the Council to be apolitical, and you want him to speak more. Speaking of one political group, it would, of course, require greater coordination, but I understand the human desire to discuss all possibilities. I would remind you that it also went through one of the answers given by the Laari Commission, that the Council is not proposing to the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic monitors the activities of the Executive Board of Eesti Pank and communicates its messages through them. That is how it sounded in Laari's reply, and everything becomes very logical, because the Governor of Eesti Pank, when he was on the Commission, spoke both of one and the other critical about the policy of recent years. That is his opinion and his competence. So I'd rather have these positions apolitical, in the way Hanno asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U50	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U51	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm going to get a little hooked up with the previous questions that were put: I want to clarify one way. You yourself refused to congratulate Mart Laar, saying that you only refer to the committee protocol. I would like to ask if anyone in the committee session praised Mart Laari. Can you refer it? And if you don't know how to do that, can you guess why President Mart Laar proposed as a candidate? Otherwise, it's gonna feel like no one has praised Marti, but he's a candidate here, and he's gonna be elected. Can you say anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U52	Thank you. Yeah, sure. I'd insult you and question your reading skills if I started reading the explanatory statement, but it's there in paper paper behind the hall. The one who praises Mart Laari as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is the President of the Republic of Estonia. No one was going to repeat this at the committee meeting, but his opinion is now well known.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U53	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U54	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We are in a strange situation here because it is quite obvious that the majority of this hall in its heart and in its mind does not support the re-election of Mart Laar as chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. It's obvious. It was also very eloquent to watch the Chairwoman of the Centre Party come here to correct and control his people as a politician. After all, we are a small group of 101 people, and we know that this cat grazing is very difficult for you in that group, people just don't want to support Mart Laar. It's no secret to anyone here. The Reform Party does not want to support him either, although they supported him last time. One might say that the Reform Party made Mart Laar the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. But we all know he hasn't done the job. He just hasn't done the job. I don't want to use phrases here that have been used to avoid being accused of being insulted in any way in person. I'm not insulting him. He has undoubtedly very great experience as a politician; he certainly also has merit as a politician. But I will bring a small historical parallel with another head of state, an outstanding politician, Marshal Pétaine, who was a hero in World War I, but in World War II turned out to be a traitor. Perhaps this comparison is a little too harsh in the sense that I don't want to call Mart Laar a traitor here, but history shows that past service is past service and present is present. You can't commit these things together. And even if these things are put together, it often doesn't come out of any edible soup. Of course, I have a question: Mart Laar, where are you? We have all kinds of officials going through this hall, including candidates for judges of the Supreme Court, Chancellors of Justice, and I don't know who else, including the President of the Republic, for whom we decide whether or not we support them. They're all always here. But now we have the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, whom we do not see, whom we cannot question, whose condition we cannot evaluate. We are told by the words of Toomas Sildam that he is still sharp, he is very eloquent. But we'd like to see it face-to-face and see the questions if the gun he's with is either he shoots back or he doesn't shoot, if there's a glitch or if there's no glitch. We have this right, but in fact, we are currently deprived of that right. We don't see him. Hey, Mart Laar, where are you? Silence, and very eloquent silence. And when you talk about favors, you talk about non-doings. We can count a bunch of things with Mart Laar's prints on them, which are, if not shameful, at least questionable. Where did the gold of Eesti Pank go? Mart Laar was the prime minister at the time. Jürgen Ligi laughs. Laugh, Jürgen, but in the current currency, that gold would be worth hundreds of millions of dollars. And what do we do with the stock papers? They're not even good enough for the bathroom. The entire Estonian people do not have enough of these stock papers in the bathroom; they simply do not have enough. But there's no money, and there's no gold. There was mention here of an arms deal, where there are questions again, both the way and the way. But there's no question about the rouble deal. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U55	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U56	It was the purest money laundering, as Mr Gräzin said. And with this money laundering, some people who were at that time in politics or as advisors were obviously enriched, then left politics and still operate in business to this day, very eloquent. VEB Foundation saga. We have a right and a duty to find out about these matters as a society and a nation. So what happened: where did the money go? Money is the thing that always makes people fight. Especially when you don't know what the money's become. There's Mart Laar's prints on it again. We can also talk about privatisations, about the very many privatisations that took place during his first government, and then there were fewer. There's a lot of questions, lots of doubts, lots of hesitations. These are things that must also be clear to society, but they are not clear. If we resume now, there is a person of this background who, as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, could not handle the money laundering scandals of Danske and Versobank, even though the task of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is to supervise banking. And a person of this background should become Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank for another five years? There's always a question of who will benefit. Is it beneficial for certain forces that want to guarantee that the next Governor of Eesti Pank is under their control? Is it also wanted to be part of some invisible nomenclature that we have in the Republic of Estonia, and who are supported by some biased force in the process of being appointed? Look, you can laugh and talk about conspiracy theories and say it's all an exaggeration. But as long as there is no clarity, until there is so little clarity and so much ambiguity, I call on everyone not to fear for the health of the coalition, but to choose, to vote according to their conscience. Believe me, at some point, there will still be a final billing, as is known in the popularity "Final countdown," and then your heart will be pure. Our group does not strongly support Mart Laar's becoming chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank for the second term of office.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U57	Jürgen Ligi, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, changed their mind at the last moment. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group. You can change your mind again, Jurgen.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U58	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mart Helme's speech prompted me to come here. The Free Party Group supports Mart Laar's candidacy as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. This last story reminded me a little of the fact that it is a good thing that I did not take responsibility at all in the 1990s, that nothing was done, so everything can be pointed at the successful Prime Minister at that time. We do not really agree with this, not to mention those facts that were not accurate. The money laundering incident at Danske Bank was largely before Mart Laar became Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. So I don't think that motive should really have anything to do with this. Both the work of the Financial Intelligence Unit and all its activities in Estonian banking must be assessed here in order to reduce the proportion of non-residents. With regard to Mart Laar's candidacy, there are two kinds of motives. His physical abilities began to be discussed in the first wave. I think it was totally inappropriate. Luckily, it didn't sound in this hall. I can assure you that Mr Laar is well-sighted and mentally capable of managing Eesti Pank. However, as far as the lack of professional higher education is concerned, I do not think that this is an appropriate motive either, given the long-term experience of a person as a head of government and the appreciation of what is the role of Eesti Pank and what must be done in this capacity. Mart Laar has been a statesman, he has perhaps not been the leader of such a successful party, but he has certainly been a statesman, and we have no reason to doubt him: he still is. Here, too, was the complaint that, as Chairman of the Council, he had not criticised the budgetary policy of the Government of the Republic. To be honest, I do not know whether this criticism should come so much from the President of the Council. In this context, however, I would like to say that already quite a number of governments could have followed more closely the assessments of the macroeconomic situation and economic dynamics from Eesti Pank as well as the balance of the budget. Unfortunately, this has not been done, but these views have come from Eesti Pank. We also have no reason to doubt the motivation of the President of the Republic because it is indicated that as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, Laar has initiated the process of assessing the activities of Eesti Pank and ensured that the recommendations made during the audit have been met and that the activities have been brought to a better level. One of the criticisms that still sounds here from time to time is that the decision to be part of the European System of Central Banks with Eesti Pank has moved far away from us and this position is no longer sufficiently furnished. To tell you the truth, there may be something to think about and talk about, but it has nothing to do with this candidacy in this case. This is a separate subject that should not concern Mart Laar's candidacy. On this basis, the Free Party Group has decided to support this candidacy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U59	Mart Helm has the right to recite and then Jürgen Liigi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U60	Thank you. I strongly protest against Andres Herkel's claim that I did not take any responsibility in the 1990s. I was responsible for the conclusion of the Russian withdrawal agreement and negotiations, as well as the border negotiations. I also led one of Estonia's most important embassys in Moscow for four years. So the argument that I did not take any responsibility and that I only squeal and squirm is not true and is malicious.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U61	I'll give Jüri Adams the right of reply. In position, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U62	Thank you. The rapporteur, Stalnukhin, named my name and assumed that what we were doing today was some kind of law relating to the constitution or text. In fact, there is no such law. The Constitution does not say anything about the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and its Chairman; it is enshrined in the Eesti Pank Act. However, Eesti Pank, as such, was formed already during the last Supreme Council, in a situation where Estonia did not seem to be independent at all. It was such an inner rebellion of the Soviet Union. For example, sometime in 1990 a decision of the Supreme Council has been fixed, the content of which is that the Governor of Eesti Pank and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board must not be the same person.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U63	Jürgen Ligi on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party has had a unique relationship of love and hate with Mart Laar and his political parties that needs to be explained. We have a number of reasons why we should not vote against Mart Laar, but basically there are reasons why we should vote for him. We can say that the Reform Party has taken IRL and Fatherland as a strategic partner. We have been opposed to the view that we are rather a competitor with whom we must struggle, whose actions must be prevented in any way, to whom we must oppose. And because of such tactical maneuvers, there is reason to abandon the principles that have bound us. In 2013 the Reform Party was indeed the one who actively defended Lar's candidacy. The reason, of course, was not that he knew something about finance and the economy, but that he was very effective in presenting certain principles. He has been in his texts with a very thin and very poor argument as to the economy and finances, but it is all about what sounds like when he says the right things. That is why we supported him as a social figure in the prominent position in which the thin texts work. Last time Mart Laar was taunted in absentia in this Chamber for not performing here, today and the press are taunted by those who asked him questions in the Commission. At the time, it was why he did not come to answer, which was very faceless. Today, the subject went through here that he was in a bad place, and it was natural that he shouldn't have been here. But it is very strange that he is now being accused of answering questions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and asking critical questions. I was the main questioner, and it's very strange to read it as some kind of recrimination. Eesti Pank and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank must express certain values contained in the words 'conservativeness', 'continuity' and also 'consistency'. All of this we hoped from Mart Laar that in this five year period he would wear and protect and represent the principles that value the conservativeness of Estonia. Everything has gone very differently. He was one of the midwives of the birth of the current government, and he knew that this government and his party's finance minister were the first thing to flush down the pot, namely the budget rules and then practically the budget. The coalition made money for itself and worked against macroeconomic principles, not to mention working against financial sustainability. Mart Laar has shown one of the interest groups a slight murmur around the corner, but not a clear message. This article, which he sent us to prove, confirms that he says nothing. He's okay with this coalition, he's okay with the inconclusiveness of finances. Indeed, the tax system could have been the subject of speaking out as a social figure, but it has spoken about it again around the corner to one interest group, not more broadly, which would have made social waves. Just as his mocking speeches made waves during previous governments, who have actually defended and followed these principles. Free things, the tactical moves of the IRL, have been very good for him, even though they are unsustainable. Pension reform, once again, is one of the things that represents the sustainability of society. When there was a political need, went to the IRL for pensions... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U65	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U66	...attacked, there was no word against the fact that listen to what you're doing, it's not sustainable. Of course, these manifestations of state capitalism, which we often accepted in our government, were not criticised. One nasty issue in this Chamber has been that Estonia is always being presented as its own occupation. It's always been said that he's caused some kind of forced tenants' problem that there hasn't been a restitution. The forced tenants didn't have anything, but they should have had something in the process of rehab. Giving money to churches. Why not give the churches money? Why not make up for unrefundable assets? However, it was again presented as an occupation loss and compensation by the occupying person himself. VEB Fond just a nasty subject. Mart Laar lied about this in the Commission when he said that it was not a matter for the government or Eesti Pank. His government did this, and Eesti Pank had to apologize. It is known where the money went and it is known that it went there with the signature of the Governor of Eesti Pank. Mart Laar said it was none of his business, let the others whine about their political affairs and pretend to be somewhere very mysterious. That's not good enough for us. It doesn't suit us that Laar has chosen a clear political side, abandoning the principles. And we are not very comforted by the fact that things are moving in Eesti Pank and that it actually manages the meetings. He's in good shape, but he can't do it ideologically. He does not understand that he must have a sense of responsibility that he is a social figure who must represent the values for which he has previously been supported. Let it remain the coalition of the Karilites and the Stalnuchins, which he will appoint this time, just as it was before the Reform Party and the IRL. I hope that the way in which we are voting today does not depend on the composition and cooperation of the future Council. This vote will be over and Eesti Pank will continue with the work. So good luck with who's gonna be chairman of this council, but we remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U67	Eiki Nestor on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Eesti Pank performs important tasks because the people living in Estonia, the state of Estonia, benefit from the fact that we are members of the euro area. Therefore, changes in time have been important in the tasks of Eesti Pank. And as part of the European Central Bank, I think Eesti Pank has performed these tasks well. The European Central Bank has handled the crises created by irresponsible politicians well, in the best possible way. In this respect, I have no complaints to the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank or to its chairman. As regards the style of work here, the question also arose of what the Chairman of the Bank's Supervisory Board might do and what not to do, I would recommend that he be less politician in the coming years if Mart Laar became the chairman of the Bank's Supervisory Board today than so far. I know that he's still boiling, and I realize that it's not easy for him, but I think we should try it anyway. However, these discussions made me think of something else here today. Look, all of us in politics have our friends and those who are our colleagues, but not our friends. And as long as our excellent constitution lives, you will be in a position to vote for someone who is not your friend a hundred more times during your political career. That's what life is like. And in this sense, this sandbox game with the Commission's waitress was not the hallmark of the best political culture here. The vote is free: vote as statesmen, as you decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U69	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. Pursuant to § 117 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, no amendments to the draft could be tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 620. This vote will be secret and will begin in about two minutes. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U70	I have a procedural question. How do you intend to ensure that the vote is secret in a situation where we have multiple photographers up here and behind us is a television camera tingling? I am not asking for concern for myself, I have nothing to hide, but I am thinking about poor middle party people who have been beaten, pushed and forced to vote in the same way. They'll go home tonight and see how they vote. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U71	Of course, Valdo Randpere was right to reply, but I believe that secrecy is primarily up to you. If you don't think of anything else, you have two hands. Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U72	I understood Valdo's question very well, but I'm telling you completely honestly, I didn't understand your answer. For example, in America, when the Senate votes, it is generally the case that first the senators are warned to turn the papers around and cover your remote control, and send out the cameras. That's what we have, but why are you different? Didn't you understand Valdo's question? It's possible to photograph the fingertips from the top. Is it such a terrible restriction on freedom of the press? If we have a top-secret vote, couldn't we clean the place up? Or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U73	I could understand Valdo Randpere and Igor Gräzin's lines even when I didn't make any particular effort. I don't think I'm going to take the decision to ask the cameras to leave. You can hide your vote if you doubt whether or not your movements will be monitored. Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U74	In case you don't dare make that decision, why don't you take the manager's break and make that decision with the board? In fact, the secret vote should be one where the ballot box or the booth doesn't push you with a photographer, but here's the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U75	Under our rules, the secret vote is also the kind of vote we will be taking in about two minutes. Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U76	Thank you. Mr President of the Riigikogu. Our practice so far has been that all the secret votes have been held in accordance with this procedure. I have not received any protests in the current practice of the Riigikogu when secret voting has taken place electronically. We have had protests and problems when a secret vote has taken place in an office with no cameras and no outsiders. In this case, I'm more upset than the tingling camera that Taavi's garment is a metre away from me. He sees much better how I vote than the cameraman on the balcony. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] So I think that we will stick to our current practice and think about how to better ensure that in the future we vote secretly, that all those who feel that their voting may somehow be monitored do not feel that this is not in line with the principle of a secret vote. I don't think we have to worry about that. Let's go.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U77	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U78	I have to stress one place, this Helir-Valdor story that there's no reason to doubt. I repeat what Valdo said: there is reason to doubt. The Central Party Group meeting this morning confirmed that there is no unity in the Centre Party on this issue. Very many people are opposed to this appointment and have been subject to deliberate pressure. I think that the chairman of the meeting, who is also a representative of his party, has a direct task of providing the group with the necessary uniform sense of security. And the fact that you're deliberately keeping your group under pressure right now, using your chair's position, doesn't seem to me to correspond to your functions. Is there a secret vote or not? And is it guaranteed to the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U79	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The official position of the Reform Party is that it can vote, although it is one of the most embarrassing secret votes. Everyone can hide their vote, which has worked so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U81	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U82	Thank you. I would like to say, in the interest of the report, that there was no meeting of the Centre Party Group today. Mr Gräzin either confused something or is more informed than our Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U83	However, ladies and gentlemen, after hearing your lines, I am sticking to the decision that we are currently holding a secret vote electronically. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Mart Laari Appointment of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank' presented by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid. Please take a stand and vote in secret! 44 votes against and 31 members of the Riigikogu with 1 abstention. 16 members of the Riigikogu did not take part in the vote. The draft of the decision of the Riigikogu 'Appointing the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mart Laari Eesti Pank' presented by the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid, has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U84	Today's third item is the continuation of the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the election of the European Parliament and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. I would like to address the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. On the subject of voting, however, we will move forward. I hope that the second reading of this bill will end well here today. The appropriate amendment would be for a secret vote to take place in the Riigikogu under the plaid and with the help of a flashlight, and the director of the office would provide us with all of this, but that is not the content of this draft. The 400 bill has already been read once in this Chamber as a result of our joint efforts. We decided that amendments to this draft could be tabled until 9 May 2018, and this opportunity was also used. There are four amendments before you. The first of these is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This amendment provides for the inclusion of a provision governing the formation of polling stations. According to this, with the permission of the state electoral service, the municipality or city government may determine that the polling district has more than one voting space open on the same day as the pre-vote. This proposal concerns expenditure control, so that the elections can be carried out with the resources available to us or the electoral service. This can be seen if some kind of pressure method depends on what to look at with your eyes, but it has been the case so far, the elections have been held, and the local electoral councils have made these agreements nicely. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Reform Party Group. In fact, he made eight whole proposals, but in the light of the Rules of Procedure, it was possible to put them together in a single amendment. To sum up the content of this amendment in a simplified manner, it is to maintain the existing electoral regulation. Reciprocating explanations were as follows: The Reform Party does not support policies aimed at reducing the possibilities for electronic voting. People vote more and more electronically, it is innovative, convenient and meets the image of e-Estonia. Nor does the Reform Party support an extension of voting at home. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If there was such a principle in the original text that, when voting in the department or voting at all, if it is a ballot paper, the person who received the note does not signify the receipt of the ballot paper by a member of the polling department, the interim consultations revealed that such an innovative idea is not yet universal in the Riigikogu. That is why it was proposed that the voter should, however, sign the ballot paper. However, in the second reading explanatory memorandum, it does not necessarily have to mean a classic signature on paper, but may also be used for other technical tools, smart devices, touch-sensitive screens, etc., based on the technical solution that the electoral service can reach. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This amendment complements the provisions of the electoral laws and referendum law governing the revocation of voting results and the organisation of a re-vote. It is foreseen that when the voting results of the polling station are invalidated, voters who voted in that polling district during the pre-vote and on the election day will be able to vote in the re-voting vote. This clarification is necessary with regard to the introduction of an electronic electoral list, as the new situation does not have a fixed territory and hence a electorate. This leads to the need to determine who can vote on re-voting in the polling district. Only those who have done it once can do it. Procedural decisions of the commission of directors. At our meeting on 14 May, we decided to submit a draft for the second reading to the plenary assembly by 29 May 2018. Done! Our proposal is to conclude the second reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U86	The first question is asked by Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U87	Thank you. I would also like to go back to the House once more on the issues that are disturbing the Reform Party about this draft. Firstly, the significant reduction of the e-election period, earlier they started on the tenth day, now starting on the sixth day before the elections. Secondly, extending the voting time at home from one day to three days, which seems in this sense to be completely countercurrent swimming, that e-votingrs are actually getting more and more, and those who vote at home have become less and less, and that is also the most unsafe way of voting. But now the popular and comfortable election option is restricted and the most uncomfortable and unsafe is encouraged. Why have the IRL, as well as the Social Democrats, gone along with this central party electoral propaganda and swim countercurrents compared to today's trends?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U88	Thanks! Every party thinks with its own head, and the people of the Centre Party think with their own head. I am just saying, for the sake of clarification, that the e-election time did not fall significantly, but by one day. The fact that, according to the current regulation, there is a three-day hole in the run-up to election day does not mean that so far the e-voting was possible on the 10 days before the election day. As far as home voting is concerned, indeed, on the one hand it is a downward trend, but on the other hand it will now be possible for those people who need the opportunity to vote at home to do so on more days than this one. If we are going to look for arguments from a security point of view, I think we can find 'yes' and 'no' arguments for both. We saw a little while ago in this very Chamber how secret there is or is not a vote. But so far, elections have taken place in Estonia and you see, we have been elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U89	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U90	Maybe we can continue to, some of us at least.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U91	Thank you. Good Marko, you're generally a constructive and rational person. I'm gonna ask you very simply. We discussed this draft in the Commission. Of course, I understand that the coalition has its own principles and agreements, which must be based on them. I'm asking you as a human being completely sincerely. Do you feel these two changes, shortening the time for e-votes and extending the time for voting at home as the most unsafe method of voting, as a reasonable choice in this Chamber's large Chamber? Tell me your personal position, don't tell me that's what the coalition has agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U92	Thanks! I will be very brief. In my opinion, these amendments are sensible. I have never, by running for office in a collection, be it the Riigikogu or the local government council, worried about what this election procedure looks like. I have always had the goal of maximising my votes, and I have always been able to do so in a legal way, without using any machinations, in any form of election.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U93	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Commission must have considered this at length, in a reasoned and reasoned manner. Maybe you're overreacting clearly. Why shorten the e-election period? Why is it good and useful, and why is it required by law now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U95	Thanks! I'd rather say it differently: it's going to be possible now. According to the current law, the election day, on the eve of this Sunday, is a three-day hole. This is due to the fact that we do not have an electronic electoral list and paper ballots to travel around Estonia so that the notes can reach the home district. Now the need for such a three-day hole disappears. We will adopt an electronic list and the election time will be specific, clear and within a week. In seven days, all people who have the will to take part in elections should still be able to make their election decision on the basis of these three electoral methods and the opportunities that have now been added to do so in a much wider geographical sense than so far. Once again, as a candidate (we did not discuss this in committee), I think it is quite reasonable that this decision be made as compactly as possible, not that you walk along the streets of Rakvere and ask everyone if they have already voted for you and, at the same time, there is still a lot of time to go, a campaign is needed in parallel, even though people have already made their decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U96	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U97	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I've been on six election missions during this term, and I've seen different e-solutions, registration solutions. Did the Commission not discuss the possibility of a simple e-mail vote as an option, for example, in the United States?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U98	Thanks! In its discussions, the Commission maintained the practices established in the Estonian state. We did not discuss any new methods and methods of election. This does not mean that there were no questions about whether to do so or whether to do it in a third way. There are certainly a number of technical issues that need not be defined in law at all, but which can be resolved by the electoral service itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U99	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In general, there is no point in changing things that work quite well because of boredom. The electronic list and the register are certainly important and very grateful work, but I do not remember that, as head of government, I would have been exposed to protests that voting at home for one day would have been like a problem. How did this change come about? In my opinion, the coalition and the Commission underestimate the power of the message. This message is very clear: the e-vote is innovative and forward-looking, but going home with a box is not by its very nature. That one day would have guaranteed all those who would like to vote at home the right to vote. Why was that decided after all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U101	Thanks! The Commission also decided to expand the opportunities for voters at home. If you are concerned about e-voting not being able to make their decision within six days, there is still a chance to change your vote on the seventh day, then do not be jealous if the voters at home have the opportunity to make their decision on three days.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U102	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U103	Thank you. I also come to the vote at home, based on foreign experience. What examples of foreign countries did you base on, coming up with your proposal to extend the period to three days? As far as we have been asking on missions how these voices have gathered in the station, it has become apparent that there are 0.6 voters at home per 1000 voters. Perhaps there is no such thing as voting at home in other countries. It should be taken into account that these countries do not even have the possibility of prior voting; people are only going to vote one day. We are such a unique country with pre-voting and also e-voting, with many more opportunities. What practice and what experience did you draw from when you proposed that you could vote at home for three days?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U104	Thanks! I, unlike you, have not visited elections in other countries, I have managed to manage my country so far, I consider it reasonable. If anyone wants to carry out any further analysis, this example is considered an example of Estonia that is possible for three days. Maybe there will be more in other countries. I have no examples to set for you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U105	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! After all, voting at home is, by its very nature, intended for exceptional cases, which is related to a lack of mobility, a serious health problem, an unexpected health problem or whatever. But your speech also gave the impression that the possibility of e-voting was broadened and expanded. Could this mean that at some point the coalition is proposing to extend the voting time at home for the same long period as in the e-vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U107	I'm not gonna make you happy. I'm just gonna say no.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! With this e-vote, this is the kind of thing that Estonia applies and is not applied in other countries in this form. Its technical implementation is an issue that can always be improved. Of what expertise is this bill written, and what problems does it solve? I also see that the OSCE ODIHR, which is going to observe our elections in the electronic election aspect, has made some recommendations. Have they also been taken into account in this draft, or is it a purely political response to the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U109	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U110	Thanks! I've said that once before, every party thinks about putting together drafts with its own head. As far as expertise is concerned, we used the experience and best knowledge of our election service. Of course, if we come to a point like the extension of the voting time at home, you're not as big an expert as you are, there is no correct answer here, you can do it in three, two and only one day, you can do it in four days, but there is no such plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U111	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U112	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Did the Commission also mention the most distinctive examples when all the staff in a nursing home or a social welfare institution voted in favour of one candidate who happened to have the same world view as the head of the institution? Is this an example of e-voting security?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U113	Thanks! We didn't use any specific examples. We do not intend to change any of the voting methods that we have already voted on with this bill, the honourable Riigikogu. E-voting will remain the way it's been so far. Voting at home, as Mr Kruuse mentioned, is indeed intended for exceptional cases. Who is old and weak or young and weak, of an age of choice, though, and can not use any other options, it is intended for them. The vote on the box is then meant for anyone who thinks it's good for some reason. We didn't discuss any examples. I also mentioned that it is possible to use the 'help hand' for almost all of these electoral methods.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U114	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft has not improved at all in the Commission between first and second readings. We continue to wonder why it is necessary to pierce the system that works. Whether or not there should be a hole in there for three days has been discussed quite a bit. On this point, these so-called security issues can be overcome, according to the electoral commission, thanks to the electronic electoral list. There is only one positive thing about this bill, that is the electronic voter list. This will certainly make elections in Estonia better organised. I still don't understand what the hell it takes to poke e-elections, and worse, to shorten their time. If you poke them at all, you might want to lengthen it out and write an extra cell phone to choose from. We have been scolded all along, and we have been accused that the Estonian e-Tiger will fall asleep if he has not already done so. Now it would have been possible to write mobile voting into the law, even after the next parliamentary elections, there is time, I stress, almost five years, not since 2019, but from the elections of the Riigikogu in 2023. If anyone dares to say that in four or five years, technology that has long been available on the market, secure use of mobile ID and mobile solutions in elections will not be able to be created, then this is bullshit. Of course, this is possible and it would have been at least the good news to the public and to the world that Estonia will take the opportunity to vote on a mobile phone. Instead, we have the opposite message: we will shorten the time for e-elections and extend the time for voting at home as the most unsafe method of voting. Quite the opposite message to what we should be sending from this great Chamber. Marko says it doesn't matter to him how he's chosen. Sure, but that's your personal position, isn't it? Of course, it must be important for every politician to have votes. But speaking of voices, it's also important what kind of message we give here. IRL has always supported e-solutions in the past, but now they are going along with the ruckus of the Centre Party, so that, that is, this final compromise, through the compromise reached by the trouble, we will make the voting time at home longer and the time for e-voting one day shorter. It's a joke, really. We should not be doing such things in this large Chamber. We should not allow this draft to be passed through second reading; we should not adopt it at third reading. Or if we do, at least we should keep the electronic list that is really necessary, and Parliament's large hall supports the other amendment of the Reform Party, which at least maintains the status quo. I am not even talking about the fact that we did not make proposals for this draft on the subject that we dealt with in a separate draft so that, in fact, the time for e-voting, together with the deadline for pre-voting, could be extended to 10 days. These are things that will be discussed for a long time in the future; these are things that create a trend. These issues, which we are not solving here at the moment, such as extending the e-vote or allowing us to vote on a mobile phone, are actually haunting us for quite a long time. Once again, it is a matter of giving a message: Estonia as an e-state versus a view of the past. And we're sending a message today that we're looking at the past. I really hope the coalition understands its mistake, but I don't think they can. I call on all of you to support at least the Reform Party's amendment, which would allow the situation that is today, where e-voting takes seven days and voting at home for one day to be maintained. Voting at home has practically disappeared, only a few thousand people are using it all over Estonia. So I very much hope that the large hall will be serious in voting on these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U116	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In recent years, one phenomenon in the world has been characterised by the use of a term that is usually translated into Estonian with the word "fake news," in English-speaking countries using the expression fake news or, more academically, information disorder. I've always thought it wasn't so easy that everything that gets under it means deliberately twisting something or making up things that don't exist. Apparently, a large part of this frustration has arisen by creating a series of new news channels where news is written by people who are not professionally prepared for it. They do not have the "professional" journalist's sense of responsibility or preparation, and they probably make a lot of mistakes unwittingly. On morning television this morning, news is read every half-hour, and there was also news that today the Riigikogu is discussing the draft law that we are currently at. Among other things, the news said that one of the main problems of the Estonian elections is that the elections are not uniform, as stated in the Constitution. I have had the opportunity to speak from this speaker that this term, which is used in the Constitution, does not mean what 'one-size-fits-all' means in the Estonian common language. It is a historical term that has had the meaning that each person's voice has just as much weight as any other hitchhiker's. It is not helpful for me to speak it here and for some people to remember it, because there is a long history of misusing this term, which is basically rooted in the years-long campaign by the members of the Centre Party against electronic voting, where it is said as one of the main arguments that it is not uniform. He is uniform in this sense, and there has never been any other uniformity in the world, and probably not in any of the electoral techniques. In my opinion, it is rather a question of how it is possible that the news editor of national broadcasting, who has written this news, has gone through such an uneducated phenomenon, does not know what the word means, and it has not even occurred to him to ask whether there is any misunderstanding here. One possibility is, of course, that this mistake has arisen because of the lack of education of the journalist of Estonian National Broadcasting itself. The second option, which may be a little more dangerous for us, is that this news probably came from the Riigikogu press service. So I would ask the Riigikogu to consider the professionalism of our press service, and I would ask the Committee on Culture to think about this general tendency... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U118	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U119	... which is currently in our so-called national media, is certainly in the direction of a decline in professionalism, and more and more mistakes occur in this area, which I personally feel a little better (not everyone knows), namely in dealing with matters of state order. The kind of thing that was this morning shouldn't be. There are three important aspects to the general professionalism of journalists. Think about how much there is going to be of what was constantly fought against, namely the wrong pronunciation of foreign names, which is growing and has become quite massive, the misuse of foreign words, and now the example that the journalist is not professional enough to recognise the term and know the meaning of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U120	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U121	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I was motivated by the superficialness and surfaceness of the committee chairman's replies. For three and a half years, I have participated in the observation of the parliamentary elections in Turkey, Georgia, Albania, Armenia and Italy, and in the election observation mission for the Presidential elections in the United States. What is the problem with our Parliament? For decades, many and many ambassadors have followed elections in different countries and have certainly plucked out knowledge, for example on technical issues, how to organise elections in Estonia more modernly or even more conveniently. Today's debate has shown that we are a country with a limited world view. We do not want to collect the information that our ambassadors have, and if we do not want to ask the ambassadors, we will not go abroad to look for it. What can I give as an example that could have existed in Estonia as a modern country long ago? An example is the United States. When the voter arrives at the station, he will present his ID card or passport with a barcode on it. One small tablet-sized machine automatically reads human data on an ID card and the fact that a person has been voting automatically reaches the register. Maybe there's such a quick exchange of information. Yes, it must be admitted that America, too, is not free of what is a problem in many countries: the lack of competent electoral registers, the failure to erase dead people in due time and other problems. In America, there are also problems with not being able to exchange information between states. Perhaps if the states are very close to each other, a person can theoretically vote in both states. But that's it. For us, the practice of voting by simple e-mail is surprising enough. I do not think there is any way in our own legal space to imagine this, but it is good to know that such things are happening. This draft concerns the shortening of e-vote time. Why? I attended the meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in the Nordic and Baltic States yesterday and the day before yesterday. Seminars will be organised over the next six months to address the issue of e-elections. For some reason, for example, socialist ambassadors have developed the idea that e-solutions are Satan. However, I personally claim that counterfeiting can be done on both occasions, both at the usual ballot box and at the e-vote box, they are at the same risk. Let me give you an example. In Armenia, when polling stations are closed and the number of votes has been counted, the ballot boxes are sent away with a police escort, no observers are allowed in, and these boxes should reach the county central electoral commission, but they will disappear for hours and no one will know what is happening to them. Luckily, we don't have that kind of practice. But I'm saying we can't say that one way is safer than the other because they're at the same risk. My message is that I trust today's election procedure. I am in favour of finding technical solutions for more mobile elections, for example, in the departments, but I am not in favour of emphasising the methods that have lived up to their time (i am referring to the extension of the voting period here at home). I don't think my vote will come to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U122	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U123	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! I'm still a juice cap in this remote control, and I'm enjoying this advantage, unlike you, who already know the feeling of elbows and know very well what's taboo and what's not. I have not been introduced to what he was now here, the Parliamentary... I just saw that 'Parliamentary' does not fit, so then the code of ethics of a member of the Riigikogu. I do not know what are the issues that you can talk about and cannot talk about, but I will answer to my good colleague Hanno, who has just talked about a period that has raised quite a number of questions. When you weren't the chairman of the party, the Riigikogu elections, which brought out a lot of anomalies. But I'll start from the back. The Centre Party had created NGO Honest Elections that claimed that e-elections were wrong. It worked very successfully until 2009 when was exactly the same time that the European Parliament elections were held at the larger shopping centres as the identity card authentication tents. It was made with the idea of helping old people re-start the ID card. Whether someone pushed a bird or something, it might have caused doubts. Those are the doubts until they are proven. I'm talking about what I've noticed. I've had my doubts, but obviously many people understand why I haven't gone to such tents. This situation, where the Centre Party no longer mistrusted e-elections, was caused by the fact that the local government elections revealed that they had received 40% of the votes from the e-vote. It turns out they're basically sawing the same branch they're sitting on. If this 40% were simply due to the rapid pace of life for young people... Yes, some colleagues are shaking their heads, but I am talking about the results of Tallinn and what was in Tallinn. The situation changed dramatically. Yes, e-elections have been beautiful and they are reliable exactly as long as there are no significant anomalies. This marked anomaly occurred in the 2015 Riigikogu elections, when the number of e-choices among them was 127, i.e. young citizens who had turned 18 and for whom we were building the country, only 127 took part in the e-vote. At the same time, there were institutions where in corpore was voted in favour of the chairman of a political party. A very big difference in the behavior of generations, which raises a lot of questions. Both electoral methods are forgery. It is not a question of how we can make them safe, but of how we can convince them that we respect the rules that we are putting in place here. Maybe this means taking some time off today to see how to proceed. On the one hand, yes, couldn't voting at home be replaced by e-voting? But in that case, we're taking away the opportunity to choose from those people who have a lack of mobility and who find it difficult to go to the station, but for some reason do not trust the e-vote. On the other hand, a lot of people might want to vote electronically, and they need a hand, but it is the same help that may, to some extent, make a different decision. Let's imagine a grandmother who says, "I don't see much, but is that my favorite there? 'The granddaughter answers: 'That's right, I pressed for him. '''But why is there another name? ''' 'I ruled him out. " Maybe then, let's be honest. Let's even try one day. I will tell you honestly: frankly, it is also possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U124	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Four amendments to the draft 400 have been tabled, and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account. A second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the decision of the commission is not taken into account. Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U125	Thank you. I would like to ask for this good proposal to be voted on and supported by everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U126	Let's put the motion to a vote. I am voting on Amendment 2 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 ambassadors were in favour of the proposal, against 38. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account. The fourth amendment, the lead committee's decision, is to take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 400. But Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Since the amendment proposed by the Reform Party was not supported and is such a fundamental change of direction and message, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, I am pleased to pass on the proposal to interrupt reading this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U128	I look forward to this paper. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have just heard, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament election law and other laws. We must vote on this proposal. Are we ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act and other laws. Please take a stand and vote. There were 35 votes in favour and 40 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported and the draft 400 second reading has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U129	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft law supplementing the Law of the Chancellor of Justice, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I call Jüri Adams, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U130	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, a few words about the history of the institution of the Chancellor of Justice, and then I will talk about the problems of this draft. The institution of the Chancellor of Justice was formed in Estonia after the last pre-war constitution of the Republic of Estonia had entered into force at the beginning of 1938. According to this constitution, the official who was appointed by the Chancellor of Justice was obliged to be, in essence, the legal adviser to the President of the Republic. No act of the President of the Republic could enter into force in a situation where the Chancellor of Justice had not given it his co-sign. The co-sign of the Chancellor of Justice did not mean that the Chancellor of Justice should have agreed to the content of the President's decision. The meaning of this signature was this: the Chancellor of Justice thus confirmed that the decision was legitimate, in accordance with the Constitution. When we restored the Republic of Estonia, the question arose as to which constitution we can live on. In the first draft constitution, this was the draft, which is called the draft of the Jüri Raidla Working Group, and there was also a separate chapter entitled 'The Chancellor of Justice'. Basically, it was the same principle of the constitution of 1938, but it had been slightly expanded because it was no longer foreseen to have such a great power as the President, it was the guarantor of legal regularity, and this task had been applied to the entire Estonian legal system. The draft of the members of the ERSP, which remained the basis for the work of the Constitutional Assembly, also contained a chapter of the institution of the Chancellor of Justice. This was certainly taken from the Raidla draft, but its content had been considerably expanded. It was extended in the sense that, in addition to the political content set out in the draft Raidla Working Group, the Chancellor of Justice had also been entrusted with the substantive task of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Estonia. At the time, we knew relatively little about ombudsmen. After all, it became clear that the structure that went into the Constitution was the most similar to the regulation of the Danish Ombudsman when looking at the countries around us. The law of the Chancellor of Justice, which is currently in force, was adopted at the beginning of 1999 and has now been in force for almost 20 years. During this 20 years, it has been changed so much that the list of amendments alone is a full page. These changes have been of two kinds. The most technical changes have dealt with the composition of the Chancellor of Justice's office, their salary and working conditions, but the functions of the Chancellor of Justice have been greatly expanded step by step in this law. Paragraph 1 of the Law of 1999, entitled "Tasks of the Chancellor of Justice', consisted of three paragraphs, which are still the first three paragraphs of the Law, but now there are 10 paragraphs that contain different tasks. These tasks include a series of tasks related to the implementation and monitoring of various conventions ratified by the Republic of Estonia. The content of the draft Constitutional Commission is that two new tasks will be added to the list of tasks of the Chancellor of Justice to the existing ones. These tasks are as follows: First of all, at the end of 1993, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution, the name of which is now translated 'the principles of the status and functioning of the national authorities for the protection and promotion of human rights'. At international level, it is commonly known as the Paris principles; we now have this abbreviation translated as the Paris principles. The translation of this resolution now exists, which was made by Mari Vihuri, interpreter of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and I am very grateful to him. I do not know where this translation will be published, but it should be published, because the normative documents important in Estonia should be available in Estonian to all Estonian citizens. What is the content of the Paris principles that these principles are? These are the principles. UN Member States are invited to set up at least one national authority in each country that meets certain requirements. This body should respect the respect of human rights in the country concerned and be fully independent of the state's executive power and should be adequately funded, with sufficient staff to enable it to carry out its tasks. It must have the right to accept statements and complaints and to initiate any debate on human rights which it considers important. In addition, there are a number of international cooperation and reporting tasks, which are all present. Basically, the Chancellor of Justice's office has already carried out this task, in substance, in any case, but there has been a lack of international human rights authority status and there has been a lack of corresponding reporting. Indeed, the status of such an authority must be recognised by the United Nations or by the United Nations agencies involved in it. Reports must be made continuously, at least annual reports should be available, and there are also networks of cooperation with the relevant authorities in all other countries. A little narcissistically, I say that if this institution is set up with the idea of the draft, that this thing should start on 1 January next year, it must be borne in mind that it will take two to three years to complete the institution. Indeed, first of all, it should have been successful for one year, then it will have to submit a first-year report, which will be considered in turn. So it'll probably take over two years until recognition or accreditation is obtained. What is the point of this, and why hasn't it been dealt with before? I think the idea is basically that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a rather ambitious plan that the Republic of Estonia will have to carry out itself in the United Nations in the future and that such 'deficiency' should be rectified as a prerequisite. That was for the first assignment. The second task, which is added, relates to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by the Riigikogu in 2012. This Convention does not require that there should necessarily be a single agency to deal with it, but in principle requires a mechanism to monitor compliance with the Convention to be put in place in the country. It has been a question of where this mechanism should be located. A few years ago, I have been able to understand documents so seriously considered that this could be the responsibility of the Commissioner for Equal Treatment. To date, it has been abandoned and found to be more appropriate if it is also the task of the Chancellor of Justice. Here, of course, is the question whether this decision taken at the time, that the Ministry of Social Affairs would have a separate post as Commissioner for Equal Treatment, was correct and whether it should be continued in the future. In any case, there seems to be a consensus today that the best place to carry out these tasks is the administration of the Chancellor of Justice. There are no objections to this, even the Chancellor of Justice himself, and his office fully agrees. The question arises as to how much additional resources and labour are needed. The Chancellor of Justice has told us that he believes that it is enough to create four new jobs at the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice: three employees would be linked to the function of the human rights authority and one would be linked to mechanisms for implementing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This work would mainly be aimed outside Estonia, including international cooperation and development. Of course, there will also be domestic work, namely in the future there will be a variety of educational and promotional programmes. There is also the question of how much additional resources would be needed. The amounts notified to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have ranged from EUR 300000 to EUR 600000 per year. EUR 300000 should be the minimum need for the first year, of which EUR 200000 would go to organise or launch the work of the Human Rights Protection Agency and EUR 100000 to deal with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Opinions are different. The exact way it's going to be is not known, but the magnitudes seem to have developed. Probably from the second year on, spending may increase. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not invented this initiative itself; it has developed in the relations between the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice and the ministries. I understand that the government currently in office fully supports such a change. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is for the first reading to be concluded today. I also had a deadline for tabling amendments here somewhere, I cannot find it at the moment, but I think that was on 1 June. I believe that it will be better accessible to the manager or his assistants. That's it, and I'll answer the questions, if there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U131	Questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, I must say that I am very pleased with this amendment, because I hope that the six-year stalemate, where and when and how it will monitor compliance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities will end. This convention is unique in the sense that the monitoring article also makes it very clear that people with disabilities must be involved in the monitoring process and participate fully in it (Article 33 (3)). Did you also consider that, in addition to point 2 of the same article, perhaps point 3 should also be mentioned in the draft, so as not to overlook that the Chancellor of Justice should ensure this, for example by setting up an advisory committee or in some other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U133	No, we haven't discussed it. This draft is certainly minimalist in nature, its text being born on the basis of the coordination between the officials of the Chancellor of Justice and the Commission staff. However, I also have the minutes of the committee meeting, which states that any necessary changes could take place in the course of the future procedure. I would like to add that the same requirements exist in principle for a human rights protection authority. The 1993 resolution also states that maximum cooperation with all human rights bodies and associations must be possible. How big this task is going to be and how expensive and labor-intensive it will be, I cannot predict it now, but the idea is still the same: it would not be a department of an institution operating in isolation, but there would be broad cooperation with all stakeholders in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U134	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My second question concerns the fact that the Convention makes it very clear that three tasks need to be carried out in order to implement the Convention: firstly, to promote compliance with the Convention, secondly, to protect it and thirdly to monitor it. These three are different tasks. Campaigns and trainings must be carried out for the first execution, studies must be carried out. Complaints must be received in order to protect them, and they must also be taken on their own initiative. In the third case, it is necessary to collect data on, for example, some practices. However, I found in the explanatory memorandum that, by amending the Chancellor of Justice's law, the institution of the Chancellor of Justice is appointed to monitor the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, i.e. the explanatory memorandum states that there is one task. I hope it's just an explanatory error.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U136	First of all, the rights of people with disabilities are one of the areas of justice that I personally hardly know at all. If I needed an expert opinion on this, I would appeal, Mrs Haukanõm, directly to you, who have dealt with this matter. As for the various finests in the explanatory memorandum, I am not very good at commenting on them. The document package before me also contains one opinion of the Government of the Republic and a whole series of correspondence on these possible developments. There are also a number of proposals that should be in the explanatory memorandum, but which, for reasons that I cannot understand, perhaps because of haste, did not all come to the explanatory statement in detail. So I don't want to start saying that this explanatory statement is now perfect and final wisdom.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U137	Thank you, George Adams! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U138	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! The Social Democrats are very pleased that the institution of the Chancellor of Justice will become the guardian of the international commitments made to Estonia and, more generally, the protection of human rights, including people with disabilities, will be ensured in Estonia. Estonia ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities on 21 March 2012. Article 33 (2) obliges countries to establish a monitoring framework consisting of one or more institutions to ensure monitoring through the promotion of implementation, the protection of the rights set out therein and the monitoring of compliance with obligations. In Estonia, the institution of the Chancellor of Justice best meets the requirements of Article 33 (2) of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Chancellor of Justice has expressed his willingness to apply for accreditation of a national independent human rights institution and, in February of this year, as did Jüri Adams, the rapporteur of the committee, who gave a very competent and thorough overview, proposed to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu to consider the initiation of a draft law amending the Chancellor of Justice Act, in order to include the tasks of the national human rights authority in its competence. The Social Democrats undoubtedly support the draft Act on Supplementing the Law of the Chancellor of Justice, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and want the success and strength of Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis and his industrious team. The Social Democrats are absolutely confident that Article 33 (3) of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, read in conjunction with Article 4 (3) of the Convention, provides that civil society, in particular people with disabilities and their umbrella organisations, must be involved in the monitoring process so that they can participate fully in it, will receive support in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-29_U139	Thank you. We are currently negotiating, and the group has the opportunity to participate in the negotiations once. I understand Jürgen Ligi understood my question. On behalf of the Reform Party Group... No one would like to speak. Dear Riigikogu, the first reading of Bill 609 has been completed. I will set the deadline of 1 June at 14 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Closure of the sitting at 12.24 p.m.
