ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U1	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the session of the VII session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 12th working week. First of all, it is time to pass on the draft laws and amendments. I don't see that wish. Before the main job starts, I have two messages for you. Firstly, today, after the plenary session, there will be an establishment meeting in this Chamber of the Estonian-Fidji parliamentary group, convened by Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits. Secondly, also today, after the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Association of Friends of the External Estonia, convened by Marianne Mikko. Requesting presence check! Seventy-five MPs will take part in the meeting, actually a couple of colleagues more, but they were late to register their cards.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U2	Today's first item is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Please ask Lauri Luige, member of the Riigikogu, to wait for the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There is a draft decision 605, before you to appoint Mr Hanno Pevkur, a good colleague, to replace Mr Kalle Laanet as a member of the special committee on the supervision of security authorities, since Kalle Laane was, as we know, elected to the governing board of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U4	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Jüri Adams, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U5	Mr President of the sitting! Indeed, among the various special committees of the Riigikogu there is also one called the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. The committees of this type differ from the permanent committees in that they do not represent the political groups in proportion, but each political group has one seat and there is an alternate, in addition to the main member appointed to that position. Since we now have the representative of the people of Laane on the Board of the Riigikogu, he resigns as a member of the committee. This is the place of the Reform Party and the Reform Party itself has expressed its wish for this place to be filled by Hanno Pevkur. Pevkur agrees. According to the information received by me, no one has protested against it or filed other applications. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to approve this exchange.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U6	There is at least one question for the rapporteur. Mart Nutt.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U7	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question concerns not so much a specific appointment, but a principle which has actually been discussed in the Commission. In fact, the exchange of members of the committee on permanent committees does not have to go through the Riigikogu's plenary session, but can take place in a simpler way. What is your opinion: couldn't this exchange of members also take place in special committees, perhaps not by voting in plenary?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U8	Thank you. Mr. Nutt! I have been performing quite a lot in various forms here for three years, also in a free microphone, with criticism of our Rules of Procedure in several places. There are a lot of problems in our Rules of Procedure, for example, the significance of a member of the Riigikogu is rather marginal and we actually have political groups at the centre. For example, there is such a paradoxical requirement that there must be at least two votes in favour in the Commission to raise a question in this Chamber. This means, however, that small groups do not have the opportunity to bring their special positions to the Chamber of the Riigikogu, etc. There is also another, smaller group of illogicalities, i.e. the large chamber of the Riigikogu is spent on things that should not be time spent, just as I am basically wasting your time here. In my opinion, it would make perfect sense for such exchanges to take place at the decision of the Board of the Riigikogu and to be challenged in the large hall. If someone thinks there's something wrong with the exchange, they can raise it. Some savings in working time would certainly result, and this would also put the importance of such things in a more appropriate order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U9	No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U11	I will open negotiations to the representatives of the political groups, if that is what you want. There is no wish for this and processing goes quite quickly also in the large hall. No amendments have been tabled to bill 605. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Let's prep it. Are we ready to vote? Thank you! I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party', draft 605. Please take a stand and vote. 78 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no colleagues were against or impartial. Draft 605 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U12	The second item is the first reading of the draft law supplementing the Financial Management Act of the local government unit initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. I would like Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu, to wait for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, we have before us the draft law supplementing the Financial Management Act of the local government unit, which has been fondly referred to as the draft banner for PBK. First of all, however, I probably owe an explanation as to why such a problem has come before us in the first place through a draft law, why it was dealt with in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, although at first glance it would make sense that either the Committee on Security or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should deal with the issue and where it begins. The roots of this topic are exactly two-pieces, one being very lonely and the other is quite general. This individual begins with this so-called PBK case, which was presented to the public in Estonia, perhaps most clearly including through the analysis of Oleg Samorodn published in the Postimees on 4 January, individual fragments have also come from the press before the programmes created by PBK for the money of Tallinn municipality. The question was how useful this use of public money is and whether it is politically balanced media or programmes that are not balanced at all. Oleg Samorodni analysed these programmes during a rather sensitive period, from June last year to mid-October, prior to the election of local governments. The analysis included three programmes: 'Good morning, Tallinn! ', 'Russian question' and 'Our capital'. To give just one example, which should be extremely alarming for Estonian society, it is that it broadcasts 'Good morning, Tallinn! During the period under consideration, Mihhail gave 15 air time to Kõlvart, who was then the assistant mayor of Tallinn, 14 to Taavi Asa, the mayor of Tallinn, 8 to Raimond Kaljulaid and 7 to Jufereva, the first name does not come to mind, the latter being the district elders. There were no representatives of any party other than the Central Party during this period. In addition to this, our general knowledge and understanding of the slope and attitude of broadcasts in PBK towards the Estonian state and our independence, our functioning, our partners, the European Union, etc. are undoubtedly undermining the interests and security of Estonia. The other part of why we reached the Financial Management Act of the local government unit is that the National Audit Office is currently carrying out one audit in connection with local elections and has made public the audit 'Use of Reklam and communication money in municipalities and cities' following previous local government elections. It has been very clear from this that the use of this public money is growing exponentially as local elections are approaching. Perhaps what is still being dealt with and this audit should come before us in the summer, in the autumn, is the question of how many local government leaders have used advertising and communication money to promote themselves and how the newspapers issued by local authorities have been used to do so. This problem, however, is certainly much wider than the problem of the city of Tallinn. Indeed, if you look at the PBK question, the first idea that arises is whether we have something to regulate in the laws relating to the media in order to say: stop, we do not simply take Estonian public money to this channel. It was also the first search by the initiators of the draft to resolve the matter in this way. By the logical route, however, we finally came to such questions as: what are the tasks of a local government unit, whether public information must take place in a way that simply buys programmes for public money, buys articles, buys advertising that does not affect the performance of the local government's tasks, or whether it is possible to meet the requirements of the Public Information Act in any other way, in such a way that we do not confuse what is a notification by the municipality and what is, in fact, an independent journalistic content. Perhaps our understanding of this draft law is that journalistic content must be produced and independent by professionals, so that public money does not give this direction. It is always possible to publish paid notices, to send out press releases, to make press conferences, to advertise, if necessary, when it concerns the performance of the municipality's tasks directly, but there is no need to buy paid programmes and articles with public money. All the more so, in such a case, it is not clear to the audience where the independent press ends and where the content actually manipulated, purchased and politically influenced begins. As a result, there are two very clear points in the draft law, the new paragraphs of § 28 of the Financial Management Act must be supplemented. Firstly, 'The municipality and city administration, the local authority and the authority administered by the authority may not purchase press broadcasts and paid articles using public funds. " Secondly, 'The municipality and city government, the local authority and the authority administered by the local authority may not purchase advertising that departs from the tasks of informing the local government by law and organising local life. ' I simply point out that local government's tasks include the organisation of local life, which is not exactly open in law, but which certainly provides considerable flexibility for this limitation. In general, individual questions are clear in the analysis as to how local life is organised and not affected. From this point of view, we want to open, first of all, a discussion on this subject. This so-called crap and situation, or, I have said, three times stealing, where public funds are essentially stolen, people's voices are also stolen before the elections using public funds, and finally the resources of the Estonian state are stolen to Estonia unfriendly, so as not to say in favour of the hostile TV channel, must definitely be stopped. I would like to stress once again that the purpose of the draft is not to limit the decision-making power of the local government but, above all, to contribute to a more targeted use of public money. If you wish, there is another problem that has recently been highlighted by the CEO of the Estonian Newspaper Association, Mr Mart Raudsaar. In fact, problems start when municipalities want to make the press with taxpayers' money. Among other things, in Estonia, in connection with such'magazines', local newspapers appear to be independent, but in fact, local newspapers are not at risk. Certainly, the value of independent journalism is what we are actually defending with this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U14	Monika Haukanõmm opens the questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As was expected, of course, the Government of the Republic did not receive any support. However, it is very interesting to read their view. They say very clearly and agree that this is an important problem which needs to be addressed in a legally competent and comprehensive way. My question goes to the position of the Government of the Republic. They have also made six comments on the draft, which have been asked to be discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. What are your comments to the positions of the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U16	Thank you for your question. First of all, I didn't expect the government to give the position he gave. I'm still an idealist, and I hope for the best. In fact, the Government of the Republic didn't even take a decision the first time. As I understand it, it was discussed in two rounds. When I went to the Commission, I was surprised that such a position had been shaped. I was hoping for support because both the leaders of the Social Democrats and the IRL have expressed the understanding that such purchase of programmes from PBK must be stopped as a matter of urgency; this is not appropriate for one Estonian municipality. I'm going to interpret and I think, but I think that the head of the Centre Party, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, also sees a problem here that needs to be solved. His role as head of the Central Party's Tallinn Council is probably not such that he could have ended it with persuasion. We would have been happy to come here to help the Government of the Republic. As far as the government's position is concerned, as it was put forward in the committee, there were a number of misconceptions that scared me the first time, at least in the oral report. First of all, one of the arguments said was that there is a problem, but this law is not the right place to solve it. I think that the Riigikogu's own initiative can shape the rules of the financial management of local government. This is exactly where we can intervene. There was a view that the party law should be amended. In the context of this issue, perhaps something should also be changed in party law, but this is a completely different issue. In this case, however, public money has not been abused directly by the Centre Party, but has been abused in favour of the Centre Party, but we believe that the city of Tallinn, or the local government, has been abused. I therefore believe that this law is absolutely the right place for this supplement. Secondly, of course, this claim was that it was disproportionate and that it prohibited the commissioning of all journalistic programmes. There is also one such show in Estonian Television "Song to Country" where municipalities help fund the invitation of visitors. Look, here I think there is now a very philosophical issue of press or the philosophy of public broadcasting. It reminds me that some time ago, it could still be a good dozen years ago, and more years ago, Estonian Television had 15-minute broadcasts from one Ministry and another. In particular, I remember environmental news, where at least once in this 15 minutes, the Minister for the Environment, who is in office, also appeared on the screen. What are we going to do with a situation where the state itself finances public service broadcasting? I think that public service broadcasting must be financed directly, editorial independence must be maintained, and ministries, local authorities, public authorities cannot finance it in such a way that they convey some political content there. They do not have to finance at all; it can be arranged differently in such a way that the balance is guaranteed. I will stick to the view that ordering programmes is in no way the responsibility of the local government. It is possible to notify otherwise. Let's get these shows made by professionals. It is possible to read public messages on the radio, on television as well as to show and print them in the printed press, and so the work is done. But the publication of the opinions of the parish elders or the purchase of programmes like the one on PBK is evil. This mediation could be left to the press, which would either accept the proposed programme/issue or fail to accept it. The question arose, too, of who controls this enforcement. I think Mikhail Stalnukhin may also reflect this from a different perspective in the Commission's presentation. However, the question here was that, if such provisions were to be introduced, how will controls be ensured. I do not know, I find this question funny in the sense that the local government itself, even the council review committee, will ensure that the requirements of the local government's financial management law are complied with. In addition, we have the National Audit Office. If there is any doubt that advertising has been made for the benefit of one or another politician in the pre-election period, then it will be dealt with by the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, so I do not see a problem here either. You can talk about it for a while. If I see a substantive problem, I could discuss a little bit about the proportion of the solution we have proposed, for example, with the Public Information Act, but that is not even the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U17	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned the Public Information Act, and my question is what is the combined effect of this draft with the Public Information Act. Is it even meant to be, has it been analyzed, has it been studied?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U19	Thank you. I've been asking for an unofficial short analysis of this. Certainly, if we proceed with this draft, it should be analysed separately. Perhaps not so much in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as it falls under the questions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is funny that the drafts are dealt with in such a way that there is no area of touch with the whole area as a whole. Indeed, our attention was drawn to the fact that according to the Public Information Act, the holder of the information is obliged to provide the public with information on a regular basis in the performance of public tasks. There will then be a long list of information to be disclosed by the holder of the information. In principle, there is one provision in one paragraph that confirms that television or radio programmes are also a means of making it public. Of course, all the channels that reach the public are the means. I actually come back to the fact that, in my opinion, disclosure does not have to assume in any way that programmes and articles are ordered for payment. For a fee, it is possible to publish information about planning discussions, etc. Such communications can quite certainly be communicated by other means. Now, here's a nuance I think it's worth paying attention to. Somehow it does sound like the rhetoric of the city of Tallinn, including the mayor of Tallinn, about why this kind of activity is being developed through PBK. All foreign policy issues, security policy issues, and obviously based on the fact that the holder of the information is obliged to disclose information in a way that ensures that it reaches everyone as soon as possible, will be excluded. One of the arguments is that PBK is the best way to reach the Russian auditorium. There's a very serious point of consideration here, which one is tilting up which one. In general, no self-respecting state, i.e. a public authority or a local authority, should use such a channel to carry out a task under the Public Information Act. I am also referring here to the analyses that have been carried out in the first place on media and influence from Russia. They have been made many times and very different. One is currently available on the RAND Corporation website. They ask what to do in such a situation, and the content of the conclusion is such that such a situation must be developed and, where appropriate, invested in domestic media, their content activities. Perhaps what must be done for public money is, in this case, when we are talking about television, strengthening the Estonian National Broadcasting for Russian-speaking programmes. The money should certainly not be directed to a TV channel from another country, the content analysis of which confirms that, first, it is politically unbalanced and, second, ultimately does not convey friendly views to Estonia. And thirdly, even worse, it gives the auditorium the impression that this is the local TV channel dealing with local problems in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U20	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U21	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The President's lead has launched a discussion on whether a performance audit could also be carried out in local governments, which would certainly provide a very clear answer to the question of whether he, the taxpayer, has been used in a targeted and influential way. This point has also been borne by the new Auditor General Janar Holm. Is this area one of the reasons why the majorities, who have been responsible for the administration of the municipality over the long term, are so categorically opposed to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U22	Thank you. This philosophy of performance audit is probably a broader issue, in conjunction with what is the task of the municipality, which is autonomy and whether the performance of all tasks can be measured financially. There may also be a problem here, to a large extent, that there is indeed a layer of local government leaders in Estonia who are used to having enough money to make themselves known loudly in the local parish paper. I referred above to Mart Raudsaare's position, which I find quite alarming in the Estonian press landscape, as to the urge to use local government resources to publish municipal or urban newspapers and to pretend to be independent journalism in them, is quite large. In fact, this seriously undermines the independence of the Estonian press. I don't know why I can relate it to one party or another, but I'm sure there is such a problem. I believe that the audit of the National Audit Office, if it is completed, will shed light on this as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U23	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Looking at this situation, where the channel that is completely hostile to Estonia continues to be financed with our own Estonian taxpayers' money, and it is done under the banner of the purchase of programmes in this channel, it is understandable where this bill pushes. But I am quite frankly saying that it would certainly be much more sympathetic for me too if we did not have to regulate political culture in essence by cutting something into the law again. You put emphasis in your presentation, and also in answering questions, on the non-acceptance of buying programmes from PBK, and I agree with this one hundred percent, but in addition to this, Tallinn has its entire TV channel, which wastes millions, pretending to be independent journalism. Let me get this straight. This bill leaves the problem of Tallinn Television aside?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U25	Thank you. First of all, I agree with the questioner absolutely that if these things could be resolved with political culture, it would be much better and we should not have to put forward such drafts. The opinion of the Government of the Republic has also emphasised this, but they do not show us how this can be done better than what we are offering. I also thank you very much for raising the question of Tallinn Television, because I actually expected this issue somewhat here. We are not directly concerned, indeed, but there is definitely a problem here. Of course, this raises the question whether, if the local authority fully finances a single television channel, it is buying programmes or what it is. In principle, the state actually supports national broadcasting, and we have all agreed, we understand that this is not the purchase of programmes, because there are balance mechanisms, a balanced Council composed of representatives of different political forces, experts, etc. The question of Tallinn Television has undoubtedly a very strong influence in the context of this issue. Now, to think that one municipality is financing a television channel in this form at all, I believe that this can only happen if the mechanisms specific to public service broadcasting are guaranteed. Whether the council is composed of all the forces represented in the Tallinn Council, it is guaranteed full editorial independence, it is ensured that different people are invited to the show. To be honest, what I have seen on Tallinn Television in general so far is far from all this. So the question of Tallinn Television certainly has a bearing on this issue that we have raised, but I do not think that we are actually solving this problem with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U26	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U27	Dear waitress, The political definition and assessment of this phenomenon, as it is corruption, is one of the most general issues of our time. I understand in this way that in countries that have emerged from the break-up of the Soviet Union, the term 'using an administrative resource' is mostly used in terms of such phenomena. Would it be appropriate to call it that in Estonian, or do we have a better name in our own language? We have once had such expressions as 'hand washes hands' and 'cousin politics'. I don't think they describe it very well. How should we describe it so that we are not said as many Russians visiting Estonia say that there is a part of life here that is nothing different from life in Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U28	Thank you. First of all, one of the starting points for such initiatives is relatively cynical: there cannot be an independent and free press and everything we have tried to shape as an independent press is not really there. Such accusations will come. But now this abuse of administrative resources and other expressions. I think they are all relevant when they are used as metaphors and in more serious professional texts, for example. Indeed, the text of the analysis of different countries uses the term 'abuse of administrative resources'. Perhaps in Estonian it would be a little easier, shorter and clearer to say 'abuse of public funds'. But misuse of administrative resources is a very common expression with which I have been very involved many years ago in my work in the Council of Europe, which is used both in assessing the electoral situation and the independence of elections in different countries and in analysing the GRECO unit against corruption. This is a very widely used term, not only for the countries of the former Soviet Union, but certainly much more widely. This is a very complex problem which cannot be resolved definitively and 100%. For example, we will have elections next year and the members of the Riigikogu will end here some time before the election day. Maybe somebody's going to meet the voters for a payoff during this period. The question arises as to whether the members of the Riigikogu in office have the advantage of using administrative resources, including their time, compared to other candidates. I once met this problem in Georgia: the opposition told the President that since there is an election, you must not use your office car, walk. Such things can always be brought to absurdity and very far away. This problem, which this bill draws attention to and which is in the public eye of Estonia in relation to PBK, is, in my opinion, an extremely clear abuse of public funds. I don't dare set a limit here right now, because it's always pretty complicated. However, what we are trying to resolve here with the bill is clearly out of line and needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U29	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U30	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! A very important problem, also referred to by Mart Raudsaar, is the integration of political content and media. Let me give you an example and ask you how to behave. The municipality newspaper records the opening of the local shopping centre, involving several local politicians. Is that information, a political promotion? Suppose this municipality page is issued by the municipality. How do we deal with this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U31	Thank you. I think that, as with all other openings, the pictures of politicians in the pre-election period are certainly not relevant. These cases can be extremely diverse. All kinds of questions arise, starting with whether people really don't find out about the opening of the shopping centre if the municipality page doesn't deal with it. In this sense, it is still a question of context. We need to look at the paper as a whole, we need to look at some period of time, we need to look at it, for example, in the pre-election period, how many candidates for one or another political power have got into the room, or have expressed their views. It's probably the whole picture that's being analyzed, not an isolated incident. However, no real conclusion can be drawn from an individual case. But I would like to stress once again that it is perfectly acceptable and certainly conceivable to report on the internal affairs of the municipality and any decisions taken by the council or questions about the organisation of local life through the page. But what Mart Raudsaar sees as a threat and what I see as a threat is when the parish papers start to pretend to be local journalism and compete with the existing county newspapers issued on a private initiative, not for public money. To be honest with you, this threat, in a situation where our municipalities are united and increased, can become even greater than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U32	Enn Meri.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Is there any international experience on this issue that could be highlighted?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U34	Thank you for your question. Yes, it is. Actually, when we get to second reading, hopefully, I think we need to generalise these things. One side is what I said above, that no self-respecting country can afford to do what we do with PBK. This is a very clear experience. The second question is how and how it is governed by the laws of different countries. We have asked the Legal and Analytical Department about this as well, but it will probably take so long to get a reply that if we go forward with this draft, there will certainly be more information by the time we prepare the second reading. Dear Oleg Samorodni has sent me extracts from French law, the Freedom of Communication Act. It comes from, by the way, 1986, in such Western European countries, the laws are mostly quite old. On this basis, decrees concerning local authorities have also been issued. It says that I shall freely translate from French the ban on advertising with a political slope. Mr. Lenk, you're shaking your head. Interdiction des émissions publicitaires à caractère politique.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U35	If there's anything else that's messed up, Heimar Lenk can ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U36	Thank you. It's such a funny presentation to listen to, good mood today. I have two questions. Why do you consider Tallinn Television to be unbalanced when Talvik, the leader of the opposition party of the parliament, is the present host of Tallinn Television and receives a salary from it? And the other side is this: since when do you consider the fields to be journalism? What are you relying on? It's not the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U37	Thank you, Mr. Lenk. I share your understanding that this is not the press. But it shows a very clear tendency to look like the press and the more money is put in it, the more it will affect the actual independent press market. As far as Mr Talvik is concerned, questions must probably be asked to him himself. Here, however, you can see some attempt on the initiative of Tallinn Television. I have also heard that there is a plan to bring in private capital. If the City Government of Tallinn is now acting sensibly, the problem of this television should be solved either by raising private capital, selling it or really creating balance mechanisms. You guys, I know, you've been there a lot. This question of bias, again, appears not in the case of a case, but in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U38	Heimar Lenk, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U39	Let me get this straight. If Talvik can continue as the host now, then the Tallinn Television can continue as well? I read that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U40	Thank you. This bill does not deal directly with Tallinn Television, but as I said to Keit Pentus-Rosimitus, there is certainly a problem here, and this raises the question whether keeping such a television channel means now buying programmes in the sense that it is written in the bill. I said something like this, and I will stick to this view that the independence and compliance with good press practice of one or the other television channel is certainly not determined by whether the involvement of directors from different political parties is balanced, i.e. whether they are from one side and the other. This can be determined by whether there are clear principles of balance, as established by the Estonian National Broadcasting Act in the case of Estonia, and whether it is also a politically balanced council. At the very least, if the municipality considers that it needs to do so on television, it could do so in such a case as to create an analogous mechanism. But I do not see a great need, frankly speaking, because, once again, we have a public service broadcasting which fulfils the obligations imposed by law, and this generally does not leave Tallinn's problems unseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U41	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I've been lucky to have three show shows and three seasons of school-related programmes on Tallinn Television, because the other TV channel didn't buy them in the sense of "buying" that quotes, not financially. Then it happened that "Long recess" and "Long recess" were the subjects, but at the same time national television and commercial channels made small idea thefts and began to reflect these topics from a point of view that was not consistent with objective reality. How do you interpret this thing? Is Tallinn Television a progressive television or is it a generator of ideas? At the same time, these things should be compared and evaluated objectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U43	Thank you, Mr. Sults! I think that if the city of Tallinn decides to create an independent council for Tallinn Television, which I referred to in answer to the previous question, it is a question for them. In the context of this bill, however, the evaluation of Tallinn Television programmes goes quite far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U44	No more questions for the waitress. For a presentation by the Commission, please address the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U45	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its regular meeting on 9 April. First of all, a representative of the Government of the Republic was heard. He presented the position of the Government of the Republic and noted that although the government understands the nature of the problem, it does not support the wording of the draft law. The government's letter sets out six points why this bill is not supported. The first point is that the proposed amendment duplicates the existing provisions and contains a reference to both KOKS and party law. The logic is that there is still a ban on certain activities. The second recital is disproportionate. Against the background of specific questions and answers, I will explain this a little bit more later. There was also a reference to the fact that the Act on the Financial Activities of the Local Government does not deal with the details of the local government's activities. This would be a precedent in itself and there are other legal instruments for it. Fourthly, there should be immediate clear evidence of sanctions for prohibited activities. There is also no body that should, above all, find out if there are violations and then make some kind of decision to punish the offenders. The Government of the Republic's letter then referred to this: the explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that it would be possible to turn to public service broadcasting in order to provide interesting information to the public. The government argued against it. Broadcast doesn't do that sort of thing. And the last one, the sixth one, is the same political culture that we've already talked about here. It is as well as impossible to define and regularise such things, everyone knows it, just as it is not possible to determine a coalition, opposition, etc. anywhere in the law. It's clear that the initiators' representative introduced the meaning of the law, but it's been talked about for a long time, I'm not going to repeat it. Then questions came, and many questions were actually devoted to one subject: why not buy articles, for example. Because they're connected, here's the point. For example, some municipality adopts a regulation that gives some advantage to the Commission, for example, about housing associations, but the media are not interested in simply printing such dry information, yet there is a need to get this information to people. Then the site will be purchased and a story will be done on this subject, which will mention, for example, that the mayor will explain to the people of the city what decision the local government has taken. The answer was that it must be dealt with by the press. Politicians can write articles of opinion, and then it is the media's business whether or not to print them. Then there was this question... [[Contacts E. Frontland because there's noise in the hall.]] Mr President! These are our party mates. Can't you tell them to go down the hall at least?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U46	I'll try. It is impossible to imagine what excites them now, but I would remind you that the formal negotiations will begin very soon. Colleagues from the Centre Party...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U47	Hey, hit 'em with a hammer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U48	If you don't mind, we'll continue. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U49	Okay. In the meantime, it became necessary to ask whether a representative of the initiators had ever worked in the local government's executive power. Turns out it's not. There was also a need to clarify PBK. In my opinion, such statements that it is a hostile channel can be made by a person who has dedicated his life to this 24/7 viewing. The initiators didn't have that face. It's probably gonna be a problem. He's not French, and so on. There were also replies from the members of the Commission which did not require a reply. The opinion was expressed that this was a societal problem. It was pointed out that the bill covers all municipalities across Estonia, because in the meantime the whole thing became very Tallinn-centred. At the end there was such a short story. It was asked that if there was an advertising campaign that invited young people, or even families, to live in a municipality, it would be allowed. Yeah, that's okay. In this case, can the head of the municipality, the mayor or the mayor, be on a calling poster or figure out somewhere in the article? No, you can't. Some random person can. However, if it turns out that in three months he will be a candidate for Riigikogu elections, it is as if he is not allowed again. So there were more questions than answers. The committee decided to propose that this draft be brought to the Chamber of the Riigikogu for the first reading by today, 17 April. I asked who would like to be a Commission waitress. In a long break, I was hoping that someone would make such a request, but there was no one, so as chairman of the committee, I am here as a co-rapporteur. Then there was a vote on whether the draft should be rejected at first reading. This proposal was supported by 5 members of the Commission, with 0 abstentions and 0 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U50	Andres Herkel will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U51	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This draft is very clearly on a wider scale than the area of the Committee on Monetary Affairs alone. I was in the Commission as the initiator of the draft at a time when Andres Ammas was no longer there and Enn Meri was not yet a member of the Commission, so I was not able to intervene very much in the Commission's debate, but I am still asking a question here. Why did the Commission not have to ask for an opinion on this issue from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or the Committee on Culture, which deals with broadcasting issues, perhaps even from the Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U52	Thank you. I personally had a question that was directed towards the Riigikogu's board of directors, why such a draft came to the Finance Committee, in principle, because I do not think that we should deal with such matters. All right, there's still time to waste in the spring, so the bill can just be thrown out, right? But if it had come in the fall, I'd protest. It's the only emotion that bothered me about it. To seek the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, no one made such a proposal. And the Commission is discussing the things that have been said by the Members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U53	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U54	Mr. Stalnukhin! Over the years, I have received reports that Lithuania has banned the display of content after various television programmes in Russian. You probably know better about this area. Can you tell me whether PBK as a channel is currently banned in Lithuania or whether it has been banned in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U55	Thank you for your question. But the best specialist on Russian channels is sitting next to you on the left. I don't go to Lithuania to watch their television.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U56	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. The Reform Party Group is represented by Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group will, of course, take this issue very seriously. If there was an opinion that the report was funny, we think the subject is too serious to say something like that. However, the solution offered by the Free Party is controversial. We believe more in self-regulation than in prohibitions. Since self-regulation does not work in the direction we want it to be inevitable in some cases. Such a way of denying it may be more deceiving and legitimizing immoral conduct. We don't really want to legitimise it, we'd like to leave the public with the opportunity to make assessments. There's been a lot of talk about PBK. Yesterday we read the news that PBK is no longer the most popular channel among Russian-speaking residents. But the new favorite is actually just as dangerous. The Russian press is not free. By denying the contribution of local governments, we cannot in any way influence Kremlin's contribution to brainwashing in Estonia. Moreover, we have the Tallinn Television, which is not better than PBK, but much more insidious, much more massive. Very regrettablely, it has also been able to involve Estonia, let us say, the politicians of the white parties who go there as broadcast leaders and give the impression of balance. In my opinion, however, this whole thing is a matter of political culture, not of orders and prohibitions. I'm not going to tell people they can't go there, but I don't approve of it in any way. We cannot actually rule out that the municipality has some kind of mission that is not directly part of their duties by law. In this sense, we cannot exclude that some kind of programme is being purchased. We do not approve of this in general, but we cannot rule out that sometimes it can be recognised. In any case, by refusing we would go out of proportion and restrict the decision-making of local governments too much. Everything the local authorities want to do maybe not have to go ahead with the law, all the more so if it gives the wrong impression that the problem has now been solved. There is only the entire parallel world of Tallinn TV, mupods, lipos and mupas (banks), something is being built that is ridiculous or even harmful in the free world, but now we refuse to buy programmes and make it look like it's all good. It's not working. I don't think people should go to Tallinn Television talk shows. We're talking about some sort of balancing, but try to balance the manure into the bread, it's not actually going to work. There is no mention here that we are taking a private investor or selling something. It cannot be done, it is not a commodity. It is artificially created manure, and it should not be treated through this law as something that is nice to go on in case we refuse to buy out programmes. This whole channel has been bought, all these people have been bought. Anyone who says they did a great educational show, try to get them to a decent channel and see if they have the value they're trying to show in the course of the questions. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U58	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U59	These points are, on the one hand, too restrictive for the municipality; on the other hand, they create an appearance. That is why I urge my group not to vote. In any case, in this area, we need to think further about whether there are any direct security problems that we could resolve if we also put in place regulations, but above all, the public should have the opportunity to assess who is involved in such dirty things and who is not. I think we've got a lot of people clearer around this three-letter compound PBK. And it's not like we have a good Central Party and a bad Central Party, as the waitress said. No, it's all a Central Party, and Jüri Ratas is its leader. Jüri Ratas is also the organiser of the filth of this PBK, being the chairman of the Tallinn Council, and he has not really tried to change anything. He lives on the voices of Mikhail Speakers, Yana Toom. Let the Estonian electorate see who is who. I think he's the more vigilant he is. And we don't have that much of a security threat that we should go with half-life, dirty solutions and give the wrong impression of safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U60	On behalf of the Centre Party Group Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U61	Thank you. If the draft itself is more or less clear and the previous speaker was not very committed to it, he spoke on other subjects, then there are still things that can be negotiated here. The first is what I admire for many years, namely how powerfully we are moving towards democracy. We are prepared to ban certain sources of information, not to argue with them, it is difficult, there may be a way to get your ass kicked. Let's forbid it and that's it. That's the problem. If you can't deny it? The standards of international life are already like this. The same RT and Sputnik, do whatever you want, but they work in the United States and in England and across Europe. This means that nothing can be done, there is a need to argue with them. But then we'll make sure we don't, we'll ban it. Let's just go there, dear colleague, where you have paid off the advertising campaign, and your members are being made separate films, as we all remember. Which way are we going? We created ETV+ in order for the Russians to have something to look at in Estonia. Look at the ratings! Look! There's almost no one watching this channel. There's an interest when there's a local show. I've been told that there are sometimes powerful viewers, I don't know where they take the numbers 8,000. Not competitive. I want to explain to you that you have to be on the same level. I don't really look at PBK, except for one show. There's my favorite show that was born one month with me, "KVN." That's what I've been looking at for a lifetime, and I'm gonna watch until I die. But I'm more interested in other channels and chat shows, debate shows, it's really interesting. What can you put out that the local Russians are talking about him, isn't it? Let's watch ETV+ and Estonian channels? Can you make these disputes on an as interesting level as some Russian channels do? I can't. Why can't you? Because one says "not to go," the other says "not to talk." I've been here in the Riigikogu for a while. The only thing left unheard is that someone forbids thinking, thinking wrong. You can't read certain things, you can't look, you can't listen. Take this last step, I'd like to see it out of your mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U62	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I think Jürgen Ligi was right about one. I began to think that way by listening to Mr Stalnukhin's speech. While Mikhail was already authorized to speak on behalf of the Centre Party, there are probably no wings, there is one such friendship with PBK. On the other hand, I find it very sad that the previous speakers, probably both of them, have come to shake up this contradiction, the conflict between the Reform Party and the Centre Party, which both PBK and Tallinn's television in its current form will probably help to feed. Indeed, I would have expected Jürgen Ligi to see that the Reform Party comes along at least with further processing of this draft and will help us think together about how to better regulate. I come to the conclusion that this issue has been raised. It is likely that the big parties really think that their government leaders must be privileged to abuse public money a little. It's a little bit of a punching mentality. Perhaps in PBK it goes big and threatening Estonia's security, but this little hitting is so expensive that the privilege of buying public money programmes must not be touched by God. In our opinion, this is inherently wrong. We are also on the line that political culture is, in any case, a better solution than the fact that we are dealing with such situations by law. But you see, in this case, especially in the PBK case, the security issue is still so big that we can offer a solution here. We would propose that this step be taken to correct the way in which the local authority deals with its communication and to limit the purchase of such programmes and articles. If anyone wants to look for some nuances in this wording, even in the spirit of the French law that I have quoted, all of this can be done together. An analysis of the different countries can also be expected. Such provisions can certainly be found in the laws of several countries, but in any case we must move forward here. In the current situation, no one has even said that there might be some kind of interference in the authority's rights here. I don't think so. It is entirely within our power to impose such a rule that you do not buy such things with public money, you do it differently. But, as I see it, the big parties in this Chamber don't want to do it. If I have understood this so far in the case of the Centre Party, it is still a bit of a bad surprise in the form of other parties. Let me remind you again here what I said in the report. The first reaction of the Socialists, namely Jevgeni Ossinovski, to this problem was unpleasant, but at one time, when I asked him in Question Time about this very problem of PBK, he gave a very unambiguous and judgmental assessment of what had been done in Tallinn for public money. This has also been clearly done by the IRL. So I have a question: why do you not come along with this initiative to move forward here and find a solution? This note, which in Jürgen Ligi's speech sounded like it, we don't like it very much, but let it stay the way it was, it's the wrong note.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U64	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is to reject the draft at first reading, but Kersti Sarapuu has something to say on the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U65	Five-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U66	Five-minute break. We'll proceed at 11:26.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-17_U67	Honourable Riigikogu! The five-minute break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the commission to reject the draft law supplementing the Financial Management Act of the local government unit initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 32 MPs, 8 against and no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 592 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings. Honourable Riigikogu! Today's big courtroom is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow at 13:00. Closure of the sitting at 11.27 a.m.
