ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! The assembly currently has 33 members of the Riigikogu. The chairman of the National Defence Committee has asked me to remind you of the fact that no one yet knows that it is possible to get acquainted with the works and activities of the Estonian defence industry in the lobby. But we still have Question Time. Here today is the Government Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab. I will give the debate on each issue an opportunity to put forward a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U2	The first questioner is Jürgen Ligi and the first is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Last time, you could not justify your words that the new income tax law will bring tens of thousands out of poverty. This cannot be justified because the poor get nothing out of it and the relatively poor become relatively less than the relatively wealthier. But you put in an interesting line that this is about the salary of the rescue officers. What analyses do you have to show that this is an effective way to raise the wages of rescue officers instead of using the money that is collected as taxes? Rescue officers are not happy with their pay, and you offer them an anti-tax law. Is that how it is? I'm surprised at your amazing face. Don't you think about those categories at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu, very respected members of the Riigikogu, a good questioner, a beautiful spring for you! I believe that the whole government understands, of course, the Minister for the Interior understands, who stands up for this area, and I also understand that the concern that savers have for their income is serious. That was point one. I understand that you have tried to ask, on your rather complex question, how this tax-free minimum solves the problem of the income of the rescuers, and your argument, I understand, is that it does not solve it. Let us first take a comparison: the wage level compared to the average wage in the Baltic States. We can see that the savior's pay is lower. If we compare the wages of the rescuers, say, with the salaries of other institutions in the same area of the Estonian state, I mean the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Forces, then we must admit that the wages of the rescuers are lower in this comparison as well. We can say that the pay of the rescuers, if we do not include night wages, extras, pay for working during the holidays or overtime, is EUR 808. This is just over 400 euros lower than the Estonian average and the estimated total wage for this year is 920 euros. I think the discussions about the savior's income have come from this one. It is true that an increase in the tax-free minimum is won in this sector, with a salary of EUR 808 or EUR 920 each month, at EUR 64.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U5	Jürgen Ligi, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U6	Thank you. You should actually show here that you are thinking about government, not just talking about it. My question is why, by justifying the amendment of the Income Tax Act, which in no way helps the poor, you started talking about the wages of the rescuers. Since you started talking about it, please indicate which calculation proves that it is easier to reduce the difference between these wishes and the possibilities of the state budget in such a way that you simply do not collect taxes. This measure will cost tens of millions of dollars to the budget, as you know, given all the sources of cover. It would be very easy to solve the problem you are describing, simply by giving more money, not by talking about income tax law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U7	Thank you. I began to talk about the wages of the rescuers because on 21 March of the Anno Domini 2018 a member of the Riigikogu, Jürgen Ligil, has a question for a member of the government, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, and the topic is the wages of the rescuers. That's why. Secondly, to solve everything by hitting one rod, no, I don't think that's the way to do it. Always look at the whole picture. Of course, in the overall picture, the increase in the tax-free minimum is a very important financial policy reform from 1 January this year. You could say that this is the biggest of this century, and I think the most positive change. This will bring tens of thousands of people out of poverty and help raise their net income, as I said, by 64 euros per month. I think that the working-age, working-time people who will benefit from this reform are 70-75%, if not more. I don't think it's right that you guys laugh at it. The problem and the call have also been on the right side of the business sector to contribute to increasing the income of people earning low and medium wages. I think it's important. We certainly support this proposal, which has also been put on the table by operators. Next, I also took out your opinions on the verbatim report of the government press conference of 16 August 2012, where you said that, at the general level, public sector wages are not so low that there is a need to complain. I am completely different: in the area of internal security, wage levels must be taken very seriously and everything must be done to raise them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U9	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Very honorable Prime Minister! In this hall, it's like when you talk about income tax, you start talking about saviors, and when you talk about saviors, you talk about income tax. Actually, I think we should talk about it. I hope I am not mistaken, but the 64 euros you are talking about should be statistically 62 euros. What I wanted to say about this raise is that you are not going to say specifically whether the pay of the rescuers will rise or whether you will count the wage increase into this so-called tax credit, but do not say that there is also some inflation and other costs, so that there will be nothing left of this issue. Do we get it right in this Chamber that today's government is very specific about raising the pay of the rescuers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U10	Thank you, good questioner! As a citizen of an Estonian state, I would also like to come to the aid and ease this confusion, the tension that is currently in the Reform Party. You're going to attack the chairman of your group right here in Question Time. You are asking how it is possible to put together a single story about what Jürgen Ligi is asking about the reform of savior wages and the tax-free minimum. I want to protect Jürgen Ligi. I think that, in any case, as a developer of logical thought, he understands very clearly that if the tax-free minimum increases, it will help people with a gross salary of EUR 1200 or less, to the tune of EUR 64. If I say that the total estimated wage of the rescuers is EUR 920, it will be less than 1200 and, in any case, it will help them, either by EUR 60, 62 or 64. It will actually help them when we talk about a working-age population whose salary is less than EUR 1776. So I would not attack if, on behalf of the government, I could invite you to call on the Chairman of the Group, Mr Ligi, for putting together some very different things. I won't, Mr. Kruuse. This is the pay of the rescuers, the gross wage, and this is a real tax-free minimum reform. True, that's not enough. In answer to your question, how much will this increase be, what is this specific amount, I say that you, as a very experienced member of the government, know that there is a negotiation process for a country's budgetary strategy. This is happening, very active, and the Minister of Finance is meeting with the ministers of the field. It will most likely reach the government table in April. The fact that this issue has not been resolved for a long time, I think, is really a problem, a problem for all governments and a number of prime ministers. In any case, I think we need to try and find a solution here. But can I give you a specific amount today? I'm not the one putting the RES together, it's the whole government. The economic forecast must be expected first, and then priority debates and disputes must be held at government level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U12	Next, Külliki Kübarsepp asks, Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration answers. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U13	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I am interested in the government's action to reduce red tape within the public sector. I'm interested in how far you've come. You have set the goal of reaching results in February next year. What are the measurable objectives you have set, and what are the concrete examples that have already been implemented? On March 8, there was an audit before the government, where it has been observed that you have collected 418 proposals and that 164 of them have been met. I hope that this is not the whole picture of what really needs to be done to reduce bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U14	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your question. The subject is topical, as are many issues in the administration of the Minister for Public Administration. In order to deal with zero bureaucracy, a task force was set up when companies came up with such a proposal that interaction between the state and the company, or also between the person, should be simplified and data collection simplified so that such extensive reports are not required. In the public sector, it was found that there is also a need for a lot of adjustments, in fact, a reduction in the administrative burden within the sector. Within this framework, these proposals were collected. These numbers are listed. We can say yes that this part of these proposals has been examined and realised, some are in work. 2019 is the deadline for the final report because it is the expiry date of this government's mandate. But I did, yes, just recently, in February. Let me give you a few examples so it doesn't just go round. The first thing is still what is going on all the time and what we have to do faster: every business on paper must stop completely. I can say that in public authorities this has essentially ended, in fact, document management has been moved to different environments, the procedure is electronic. The development of the cross-use of databases, which are also linked to the zero bureaucracy of businesses and persons, should reach the point that a single request for data should be carried out by 1 July 2019. It's already working, ideally it should be even better. This is mainly done by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, Statistics Estonia and Eesti Pank, those who most often ask for data from entrepreneurs. Once the data has been requested, the ideal will be as it is now when you fill in the tax return: the state will give you the information in advance, you will complete it if necessary, and you will confirm it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U16	You don't have to take anything in on your own.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U17	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U18	Thank you. It's nice that the first steps have been taken. When it comes to this correlation, looking at our society as a whole, it is very important that the number of officials is drastically reduced. My question is driven by an opinion article by Tambet Toomela, where he says directly that we have an obese public sector. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has said that there are too many ministerial officials. Can you also say that according to the 164 proposals taken into account, the number of officials has decreased from à la 164 ×... to a correlation of 1,5 at least?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U19	Thank you for your question. I have also presented to the government these surveys on the number of people working in the public sector and their location by region, because this is also a serious issue on the government table, so that there are more state-paid jobs across Estonia, not just in Tallinn. One reference period, which we have already submitted in the autumn with the budget, was 1 January 2016 to 1 June 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the beginning of these reference periods as 1 June). It then decreased at central government level, with a total of 53000 and slightly more people, by 1400 jobs: 800 in Tallinn and 600 elsewhere in Estonia. The pace of recent years has been such that about a thousand jobs in the public sector will fall a year, and at central government level in particular. Local authorities have not so far reduced jobs in particular, but I think this effect will come from administrative reform. This year is certainly the year in which jobs are expected to fall by 8 to 10% compared to the previous year. This is not just a mechanical reduction, it is a matter of substance. The same thing we talked about, zero bureaucracy, it has to be weighed right through. At the same time, the state must provide all services and good services. It must not be made that we are cutting, and then it turns out that we are unable to provide services to an entrepreneur or a person. The logical process is that, together with the decline in the working age population, the number of employees in the public sector should decrease. That's what we've been watching, and we've done it even faster than the annual comparison shows.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U20	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U21	Good Chairman! Dear Minister, It seems to me that we are undergoing a constant and endless reform of government, but at the same time it is administration and administration costs that are increasing, not the basic functions that we are talking about. Functions are transferred under foundations and out of the capital, but often on paper. How do we prepare for this situation, which the National Audit Office has also pointed out sharply, where euro support decreases and the performance of functions dependent on them falls under question? Where does the money come from, what happens to these functions, and how is overall savings ensured?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U22	Thank you for your question. I have a good opportunity to say that last week there were three very important decisions in the government on state reform activities. Serious preparations have been made and activities are starting. First of all, the state buildings project. The county centres want to bring public authorities together more physically and essentially in order to make more efficient use of the real estate we have. It is also a serious project of optimisation when we are talking about expenditure, and on the other hand it is an opportunity to improve the substantive cooperation between the authorities in the counties. Another serious issue that we discussed at length was the state's real estate policy. There, too, decisions have been made for a long time, for the future, how to organise it better and what the roles of someone, including the role and activities of Riigi Kinnisvara AS and how to improve it. Third, this is the answer to your question directly, is the single application service project. This pilot project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance. What's with the pilot project? It applies to grants and programmes-projects decided by the Ministry of Finance. For example, they are also regional programmes. We apply it through the State Support Services Centre. With this pilot project, we will try to assess how it will be possible to organise the next funding period in a simpler, less bureaucratic, more clear and understandable way for people, businesses or municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U24	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Mart Helme. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You have recently stated in a specific way that the Tallinn-Helsinki tunnel will definitely come. Would you share your information with us? Is this statement based on any new research that the public does not yet know about, and has the government taken any decisions, administrative or financial decisions, any planning plans that we do not know anything about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U26	Thank you for this question. I can't imagine that without the serious support of the Riigikogu, this project could go, I would say, to a real investment phase, to a construction phase. I think you took that out of the context of my sentence. But I have really said that if it seemed like a wishful thinking or wishful thinking project a few years ago, today, looking at, on the one hand, what the Republic of Finland has started to do in developing its transport system, in particular, I am thinking of creating a rail link between the north and the south, on the other hand, looking at this good project, which is Rail Baltic, in their light, the possible connection between Helsinki and Tallinn via the tunnel has really risen once again. The Finnish Government and the Prime Minister have given quite a positive input here. I, too, have said that I think that we need to move forward on this subject, that research must go on. I think that at one point, when exactly this moment comes, it is certainly impossible to predict today that this tunnel will occur. If I can see it, I can't tell. But if you ask what decisions have been taken and what commitments have been made, I will say that decisions to build a tunnel or take financial commitments have not been taken by the government. The Government's Committee on Economic Development really discussed s. On 21 February, the topic of the Tallinn Helsinki tunnel and decided that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure would continue to prepare the next steps of the FinEst Link project and give the office an overview of it in April of this year. On 5 January 2016 the... I think we're going on with the discussion. I ran out of time, but I'm sure I'll keep answering.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U27	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U28	Thank you for your answer. But I also have a little more spiteful questions in this context. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, has claimed that in 2025 Narva will be able to travel four lanes along the road. Before that, there are two Riigikogu elections. I also have, in the context of your claim that there will be a tunnel to Helsinki, a bit of a feeling that these have been implemented in the electoral struggle with naked promises that this government will no longer be able to make. Please dispel my fears!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U29	Thank you, dear Mart Helme. I don't think you have any spiteful questions. After all, you have beautifully formulated that you would like to ask the Prime Minister in Question Time about the Tallinn-Helsing tunnel. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has never once told me, as the Helsinki tunnel should somehow begin to pass through Narva. There is no subject, I assure you, never on the table. I don't believe it either, I think it's economically completely pointless, and I don't think there's a lot of road users out there. You have, in fact, raised the issue of associations within Estonia. I think that these connections need to be improved, of course, I am thinking about the direction of Tallinn-Narva, the direction of Tallinn-Tartu and the direction of Tallinn-Pärnu, and I think that certain developments also need to be made in the direction of Tallinn-Hapsalu. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has, in my view, raised the very right issue: there is a need for these connections to be safer, so that certain road extensions can be made and bypasses are safer. In that sense, I think Kadri Simson has set the right topic. I got into trouble with the last answer, I'll keep answering. On 5 January 2016, a memorandum of intent was signed for the Finnish-Estonian Transport Community initiative. It provided, inter alia, for a feasibility study on fixed transport connections. It's called the same thing I mentioned earlier: FinEst Link. The project will run from 1 August 2016 to 31 July 2018 with a total cost of nearly €1.3 million. It is funded by 79% of the European Central Baltic INTERREG programme, and the project is co-financed by all project partners, including the Estonian Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Finnish Ministry of Transport and Communications, the City of Tallinn, the City of Helsinki, the Helsinki Uusimaa Regional Council and the Harju County Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U30	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Personally, I certainly hope that this tunnel will come, because it will contribute to the wider relationship between the two countries. But I noticed in your reply that, on the one hand, you said that Rail Baltic is partly involved in this too, or at least these projects are covered in the logistical key as a whole. I am concerned, however, that I consistently hear in the Committee on Rural Affairs that the funds are not very precisely planned and do not take into account possible negative scenarios. This also concerns Rail Baltic. In fact, this week, too, during the Commission's debate, people in the Ministry of Finance were unable to provide very clearly alternative funding if it were to happen that the money would not come in this way. We don't see plan B. Tell me, if I'm wrong, but if you mentioned different important routes, did you leave the Tallinn route to name the Tartu route?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U32	Thank you, questioner! I really think you're wrong. I said in answer to Mr Mart Helme's question that I believe certain developments should also be made in the direction of Tallinn. I should add from this last point of view that I think it's all the way to Rohuküla. But I'll answer your question. The truth is that the next MFF is currently being discussed very seriously at EU level. We do not know at the moment what the volume of the next budget period for the European Union will be. Estonia has stated its priorities. The truth is that one of our priorities is to continue financing Rail Baltic. And not only that, but also the percentage that is financed by the European Union and in which part the Estonian state is important. Currently, this relationship is known to be this: 85% by the European Union and 15% by Estonia. What does that mean? At the moment, we estimate that about 268,5 million euros should mean seven or eight years, and the length of the route is 213 kilometres on the territory of Estonia. The second priority, which we will certainly stand for, is first and foremost in the area of security; it is either de-synchronising or synchronising the energy market with Central Europe. Of course, agriculture and the issue of agricultural subsidies are also a priority. I do not think anyone in the European Union can say today exactly what the next MFF is. The last time the European Union Council held this issue was under discussion. First of all, when it comes to the time horizon, many countries think or want us to be able to take this decision by the end of this year. But my sense is more likely to be pushed into the next year's number, which will be at the end of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U34	Now Prime Minister Jüri Ratas asks the question Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U35	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! On Monday this week, the International Monetary Fund published a summary statement of the annual visit to Estonia. There is a recommendation to adjust fiscal policy to the extent that the economy is currently in an outstanding position. The IMF has recommended not to increase the budget deficit during the current growth phase of the economic cycle, they are recommending a postponement of some less productive investment, but I would stress in particular that they have been given a recommendation to reduce current expenditure. Eesti Pank has made a very clear recommendation to make the budget at least in structural balance and with a nominal surplus of approximately 0.5%. The same recommendations are also included in the European Commission's so-called winter package. I am asking here whether the government is taking into account the proposals and recommendations of these recognised institutions during the preparation of the new budgetary strategy and, if you take them into account, how these recommendations will be reflected in the new budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U36	Thank you. Let's try to fit in one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U37	First of all, thank you for the question. That is an important question. I too had the honour of meeting representatives of the IMF, the International Monetary Fund. On the other hand, I thank you for this serious assessment when you said that the economy is in good shape, in very good shape. I think it's important. Here I will certainly add it to your sentence, I hope you do not mind to say, thanks to our entrepreneurs, our business sector, that we will get the kind of growth that last year was 4.9%, let us say, enjoy it, we will be able to look at it as inclusively as possible. You asked what the IMF's main recommendations were. I am pleased that the first questioner of Question Time, Mr. Ligi, is in the Chamber of the Riigikogu now, unfortunately he is leaving. But the IMF first said that it welcomes the reform of the tax-free minimum, which reduces the tax burden on low-paid people and brings more people to the labour market. In principle, it can be said that the government has already taken a very strong and concrete step with this activity, with the tax-free minimum being increased. You could say it's done. On the other hand, the IMF said that its assessment of the economy is positive, the institutions are strong and stable, and reforms are aimed at strengthening the labour market. I think it's important. Moreover, the IMF welcomes educational reforms to reduce the skills gap; they are welcome. We definitely have to go on with them. There's no time to wait here for a day. The IMF also said that this year, i.e. 2018, the IMF is expecting 4% growth, and 3.25% next year. At the same time, potential growth is estimated at 3% per year, affected by the demographic situation, i.e. labour shortages. This is certainly a major problem that we all have to deal with together this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U38	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U39	Prime Minister, you still have an amazing ability to answer the question. I specifically formulated the question of fiscal policy, not education policy or even fiscal policy. We also went over that question yesterday with your counselor who called me. I told him what I'm asking you about. But I'll keep asking. The state budget for 2018 is the first full budget of your coalition and is estimated by the European Commission to be 1.4% structurally negative in the winter package. How can it be that, if the economy has a spectacularly good time for business, these good times, this period of economic growth, we will not use it to secure the future? As we know, the growth phase of the economic cycle will not last forever. If we are at a disadvantage with the budget at that time, it is, in any case, irresponsible to live at the expense of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U40	Thank you, good questioner. I think that the future certainly cannot and must not live at the expense of the future; the future must be secured and built. You ask why it is that quite a lot of important budgetary expenditure needs to be made. You yourself have just thrown the question into the air. Because in 17 years, a lot of things have been unsolved. Let us take the first question: the funding of the sickness fund, the waiting lists that have been extended. Yeah, today's government will see that there's extra money to be paid. As we know, it has been decided in the country's budget strategy, as well as in the budget for this year, to add 220 million more over four years in order to shorten treatment queues. Secondly, the same thing the IMF said that it welcomes the reform of the income tax-free minimum. It costs the state budget, that we all understand, as your fiscal policy specialist in particular. But the IMF says we need to reduce the tax burden on low-wage earners. The third big thing I'm gonna bring out is local government issues. In any case, the revenue base of the municipalities must be broadened, strengthened and secured, I say when you ask why these costs are being incurred. I don't know how to take a step back from here. Fourthly, I will certainly bring out the education reforms that have been endorsed by the IMF. I also highlight the level of pay in the field of education and culture. Now I come back to your first question. True, the IMF believes that our economy needs a neutral fiscal policy. It's true. I just didn't get a chance to answer because you've been writing up two minutes for your home and working answer. The structural balance must be kept unchanged, i.e. the government should not give fiscal policy a boost to the economy, which is one of the recommendations of the IMF among the other recommendations. If you wanted to hear it, I'd say I had a plan to answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U41	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister, I don't know if you outdid yourself or were very confused. Quite often here we also hear from the members of your government that this economic upturn is due to the strong work of the government that the government is also affecting market prices. But I am supplementing my good colleague who referred to foreign experts. You have always been very respectful of the Riigikogu and our opinions, but it seems to me that you have not noticed the proposals about the budget that were made in the Riigikogu. They're probably even more critical than the ones coming from outside experts. Would you be willing to consider the things that have sounded from this Riigikogu board?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U43	Thank you, good questioner. Of course. Just your penguin Aivar Sõerd talked about the good state of the economy, and I said to him as an addition, not as a criticism at all, that this is the case because of Estonian entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs. I think we have a common position here. Of course, we want economic growth to be as sustainable as possible, as sustainable as possible, so that it is as inclusive as possible. If your question is whether I consider what honourable members of the Riigikogu say to be important, then I say that I consider it very important, in any case, there is no doubt about it. I think that in today's discussion we have also found a lot of common positions on the basis of which the discussion can continue, whether this previous issue related to the Tallinn-Helsinki tunnel or the current issue, when Aivar Sõerd praised the state of the economy. This is where we can go from here. I think this two-way call needs to intensify.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U44	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U45	Krista Aru next asks and answers Minister of Culture Indrek Saar. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Culture! You and the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of State Administration and the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu have received a very worrying address. It has been signed by several representative associations of choir and orchestra leaders, as well as by the choir association. The main content of the conversion was not only due to the motivation that the choir and orchestra leaders, and I dare say that the remuneration of the dance leaders is also incomprehensiblely low and in no way in accordance with the standards, but its main content was still a warning that the tradition of our song and dance ceremony in this form cannot last unless something is done to ensure secondary growth. What are your first views, reactions and suggestions after this appeal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U47	Thank you, good questioner Krista Aru, for this very important question. It is no secret that the tradition of singing and dance is certainly a very important part of our identity. The fact that it is unique throughout the world also shows that the tradition of singing parties in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is included in the UNESCO list of cultural heritage. Of course, it also gives us a special responsibility to look at what possible developments in this tradition are and whether this tradition is viable. Looking at developments in recent years, it has to be said that there is more reason to rejoice today. We see the trends, or directions, shown by the number of participants in choirs, dance groups and musical groups in the tradition of song and dance and the number of participants in these parties, as well as the number of people who buy tickets and participate in the listener's and viewer's activities. It should also be mentioned, as the last example of the children's and young people's singing and dance, that the role of young people in shaping the face of these parties is increasingly important. All of this allows us to say, on the one hand, that progress is positive. On the other hand, when this issue is raised, there is therefore a cognitively serious problem here. My concern is that we have no data. I'm really glad the choir leaders have been looking forward for so long. We now have a little time to collect this data, because unfortunately there is no analysis or any data in this approach, too, on which we can begin to compare something.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U48	Thank you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. Did I get you right that the Ministry is going to start investigating and mapping the real situation? But from here on, I have a question as to whether the concern expressed in the address of the choir and orchestra leaders is solely the concern of the Minister of Culture, or whether it is rather a cross-cutting issue. After all, this whole choral and orchestra movement could be one of the most important activities contributing to crime prevention and social well-being and increasing the mental capital of society at all. Is this only the concern of the Minister of Culture, or is it a broader and more important issue at national level?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U50	Thanks again for the question. Just as the authors of the letter have shown when writing to the addressees, they do not think that this is the sole concern of the Minister of Culture. I, too, am not ready to say that the shoulders of my fragile cultural person could bear all this responsibility. But here's the other side, which is even more important when it comes to this appeal. The addressees of this referral shall be the institutions which direct the budget. We know that local authorities have largely supported the activities of the so-called base of the tradition of song and dance festivals. In other words, one of the parties without whom it is not possible to actually find serious solutions or to agree on anything in the long term are local authorities. After all, this division of work is quite broad: when it comes to choir leaders, music teachers and also dance directors in the title of your question, dance leaders were inside, although dance directors have not been mentioned in the address, but this area is also one of the themes ., in the vast majority, in the oppressive part, the local government has still paid the wages of these people and is likely to pay them in the future. The state has taken up the process of organising parties. These sums have been increasing all along. This border has not been transported in black and white, but since 2006, the country has been the same letter of concern for choir leaders, after all, creating a single support fund, which currently amounts to EUR 840000 per year. But the role of local government is certainly very important here. Without this discussion and without an agreement here, it will certainly not be possible to address this issue as a whole at national level, not just as a government decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U51	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U52	Thank you. Good minister! I'll help you out a little bit. One major area where the Ministry of Culture can actually cooperate well is the Ministry of Education and Research. In the Committee on Culture, quite a lot has been discussed on this subject and it has been said that the majority of choir leaders Here's the question. Between the Song Festivals, we developed the principles of remuneration and support in 2007 and 2008. These amounts have rather remained at the level they were ten years ago. It's a good thing you're starting to collect data, but actually, there's a lot of data in the song and dance register, where there's data on collective support. Could you also start reviewing the amount for collective support between song parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U53	Thank you for your question, good predecessor and colleague. I'm really glad you guys are always so helpful, saying you're coming to help me. The Ministry of Education and Research is also the addressee of the letter. Of course, I am in order to collect data on what is actually happening and what data exists anywhere, and I say once again that this letter sent to us was not accompanied by any numbers, no numbers, no facts, of course I have also turned to my good colleague, Minister of Education, Mailis Reps, to try together to retrieve the data that exists anywhere. As I was referring to, the country in most cases does not pay the choir leaders their wages. But once again I say that my ambition has been, also based on the fundamentals of culture policy up to 2020, that cultural workers, especially those with higher education, would receive a decent salary. In this sense, we have exactly one mission with the writers of the letter and all of you. These people should be so rewarded that they can work according to their calling, that they can devote themselves to it. Unfortunately, I have to say that I do not have such data at my disposal today so that I can compare these salaries with the salaries of cultural workers paid by the state and the wages of cultural workers paid by the city of Tallinn (also Tallinn fulfilled the same minimum criterion as the country) and move on from there. I hope that it will be possible to get together in the near future the data on which we can move forward with the debate. I say once again, as Krista Aru pointed out, that the Ministry of Culture alone cannot really resolve this concern, but I believe that all the parties mentioned here today are taking the matter very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U54	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U55	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Arno Bridge. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! As we know, there will be serious discussions in the European Union in April and May on the organisation of the next funding period starting from 2021. Poland and the Baltic States made a joint declaration on the future approach to agricultural policy. Would you inform us of the main priorities that Estonia has set out in this joint declaration and what we are paying attention to?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U57	Thank you. I thank you, Mr Bridge, because I think you have repeatedly raised the issue of agriculture. It is true that this is, in any case, Estonia's priority, as you mentioned, as part of the preparation of the next budget for the European Union. The joint declaration was signed at the meeting of the three Baltic States and Polish agriculture and rural ministers held in Riga on 13 March. It was presented at the meeting of the Council of the European Union's Agriculture and Fisheries Council held in Brussels on Monday 19 March. Estonia's views on the future of the European Union's common agricultural policy were endorsed at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 8 March. Both the communication on the future of the CAP and the views of Estonia were presented in the honorable Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs on 16 March. You asked what the content of the declaration was. Firstly, the most important issue for both Estonia and the other signatories of the declaration is the need to harmonise direct payments for the common agricultural policy between Member States. As farmers in the European Union operate in the same market, they also face similar or similar challenges, and market and production risks affect all our farmers in the same way, so a level playing field must be ensured for all farmers in the Union to operate the internal market smoothly. Secondly, direct payments by the three Baltic States and Poland continue to be among the lowest in the European Union and it is therefore important to continue to harmonise direct payments that started during the period of the multiannual financial framework. I'm sure we can continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U58	Arno Bridge, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! One little clarification. Do you think that going back a step from 2021, 2019 and 2020 will continue to pay farmers compatibility grants and will our government support this? Transition grants, I mean, transitional grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U60	I understand you mean top-up benefits. [[???A. Sild saalist: 'Jah!'???]] That's a good question. I would, of course, like to say in front of you that there will certainly be more. But I will come back for a moment to the question of your good fellow Aivar Sõerdi. He asked why we were creating such fixed or operational costs, and I replied that many things had not been done. For the government that took office on 23 November 2016, the introduction of top-up grants into the budget was one of the priorities. In 2017, I think I'm not wrong about the magnitude of the circle was paid 19.9 million. As far as I know, it's a maximum. This is also the case in 2018 and certainly in 2019. The answer is that, in any case, I support it. I think it's right that today's government pays top-up grants. Why am I saying I can't afford a hundred percent? You don't know who the next government will be, to whom the highest authority will grant its support on March 3. In our view, in the view of today's government, this is, in any case, important and I think it needs to be continued. This is what farmers have always considered to be important. Since there is some time, I will answer the previous question. In 2018, the subsidies granted to Estonian producers amount to 65% of the European Union average per hectare, reaching around 75% by the end of the period. In addition, there were several other topics in the declaration, which is also a priority for Estonia. For example, there is a need to simplify policies in order to reduce the administrative burden on farmers. It also refers to the fact that the European Union's common agricultural policy must continue to contribute to the achievement of environmental and climate objectives. For example, there is a need to encourage joint action as it can improve the position of producers in the supply chain. These were some examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U61	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister, I have been following you closely in Question Time. When you answer some questions, you too have laughs, even though the floor seems to be crying at their answers. But here's my question. You described very nicely how the Baltic States and Poland agreed on their common position in the European Union. Unfortunately, we also received weather subsidies several times less than our Lithuanian and Latvian counterparts, for example, and I have not heard that the government has put anything in there internally. But my question is about organic production. The public has come to notice that support for organic production will decrease by nearly 15%. The honourable Minister of Rural Affairs came to this hall, and there was also such an idea in his mind that he should suddenly reduce his entry into this sector. We use nearly 20% of the land for organic production. The government has decided that organic production could be one of the key priorities, but 1.7 million were still not found in order for the subsidies to remain at the same level. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U63	Thank you. I don't think we want our countrymen to cry here in Estonia. You said there was more crying in this hall. Of course, I'm glad, and I think you have reason to be happy too. The anniversary year of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Estonia 100. On the other hand, spring has begun and spring is always the time for emergence and hope. What else can I suggest to you? When you turn your eyes to the sun, the shadows always fall behind you. So you have to be more positive, I guess. In answer to your serious question about organic production, organic farming, I think this solution needs to be found already in 2018. You mentioned that deficit, 1.7 million. I think it is important to work seriously to find a solution already this year for the Ministry of Rural Affairs to do so at the expense of its own resources, its own resources. I think that this issue has been raised very rightly. As you previously asked, does the government listen to what is being said in this Chamber of the Riigikogu? I'm listening to you. I think you are a good specialist in this field and also in many other areas. I think that support for organic farming should be seriously discussed in the near future. I promise I'll do it, I'll discuss it with the Minister of Rural Affairs. The second question is what we see in the country's budgetary strategy for future periods, for example in 2020. I believe that this application has been submitted by the Minister for Rural Affairs or the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I can't tell you the outcome of the RES today. As you know, no Minister can say that if we do not yet know the economic forecast. Once again, I thank Mr Arno Silda for raising this issue. The subject of this organic economy I take seriously on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U65	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is now asking Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U66	Thank you. Prime Minister! The Free Party has talked a lot about merchant ships that could be brought back under the Estonian flag, as has the Central Party. I may be wrong, but I don't think the new government coalition agreement received such a request, but the government's programme of action did. They were eager to look for a tax solution, how to get these cargo ships under the Estonian flag. About a year ago, this topic was up nicely on the news, but since then there has been silence, silence, silence. What happened to that thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U67	First of all, thank you, Mr. Artur Talvik. I also thank the Free Party! You have raised this issue, I think, in this Chamber in various forms, until perhaps the debate on a crucial national issue. Thank you for that. I continue to sincerely believe that bringing ships under the Estonian flag is necessary for the Estonian state, it is necessary for the Estonian economy and it is important for the Estonian marine environment in general. Has it gone as fast as I might have wanted? It hasn't gone that fast, but it's not true, either, as if it was still life or nothing had been done. Let's take a look back. This story may have started in about 2009, when two cargo ships and maritime documents, including the Maritime Development Plan, were supposed to have 35 cargo ships under the Estonian flag by 2020, when we talk about large cargo ships with a tonnage of 500 tonnes and more. The problem is that the first real step since 2009 was taken in the summer of 2017, namely 17 July. Then it was decided at the Cabinet meeting of the Government of the Republic that maritime affairs must be the first sector in which we make sectoral tax distinctions. I'm sure that's what we're doing. I know that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has met the seafarers' trade unions, has met the shipowners. This communication is active, carried by the Maritime Administration. But if you ask if it's gone at enough speed, I think it could have gone faster. I still hope that we will reach a real solution, a real base, so that the shipowners will have an interest in bringing merchant ships under the Estonian flag.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U68	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U69	Thank you. Can you specify exactly what the tax distinctions are? A lot has also been said that bringing merchant ships under the Estonian flag could go hand in hand with e-residency and the e-register of ships. Are there any developments?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U70	Thank you. I think, on the one hand, we can offer an appropriate tax environment. If you ask what these differences are specifically, there are two main possible tax differences on the table: one is the tax differentiation of labour taxes, which must be as attractive as possible or, at least, so attractive as to attract shipowners, and the other is the tax differentiation based on tonnage tax. What you have said is that it should also be very strongly linked to e-solutions or digital solutions, I agree with one hundred percent. I think this is the environment, in addition to the tax base environment, on which the shipowners could say that yes, we have more comfortable things to do, we can do things more operationally. I also think that one strong, say, pillar of e-residency could be this particular tax differentiation of merchant ships. I cannot tell you at the moment how far this question is exactly, but as I said, every day, under the direction of the Maritime Administration, meetings will take place between ministries and their authorities and a draft and possible solution will be developed to help the merchant ships come under the Estonian flag.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U71	So, honourable Riigikogu, it's 1:59.25. Mart Helme could ask, but the Prime Minister wouldn't be able to answer. Question Time is over. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister of Culture. Thank you, Minister of State Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U72	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U73	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We've got another horrible thing coming up this weekend. In fact, if no one knows, I'm gonna say we're gonna go back to summertime. Twice a year, we make these bells like this, if you could figuratively say so. I am therefore pleased to hand over the draft decision initiated by 23 members of the Riigikogu. Among them are people from all the political groups of the Riigikogu. A two-step proposal will be made to the Government. Firstly, we propose to support the European Parliament's recent decision to entrust the European Commission with the task of analysing the feasibility of the transition to summer time in the Member States of the European Union. Secondly, we propose to start an analysis of which time zone, whether in summer or winter, Estonia would be best placed to ensure both the health of our people and the economic interests of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U74	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U75	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to ask Mr Anvelt, the Minister of the Interior, together with his colleagues. Inquiry was motivated by pieces of information that became public in the last six months. Based on these, it can be assumed that the availability of drugs in Estonia will not be reduced but improved. I will give you some examples of startling news headlines: 'The dance music festival caught ten large-scale drug dealers in one weekend', 'The major operation prevented street dealers', etc. However, bearing in mind the wishes of the press to attract the attention of readers, they cannot be expected to ignore reality. The issue was also raised by an opinion article published in the Wallpaper, which refers to experts' assessment that the contribution of drugs to global production amounts to 1%. According to the author of the article, this would mean an industry of 200 million euros for Estonia. There are also facts that over 800 drug criminals are imprisoned in Estonia, which make up a considerable part of the prison population. For these reasons (there are additional reasons in the introduction to the inquiry), we would like information and comments from the Minister of the Interior about the real state of affairs in Estonian drug policy and the trends in dealing with this policy. We have many questions and we expect answers from the Minister. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U76	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U77	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! A beautiful spring for everyone! On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, I am handing over the draft law amending the Trade Union Act and the law on collective labour dispute resolution. In short, the draft law provides for the possibility of prosecuting a legal person in the event of breach of the obligations laid down in the Trade Unions Act and the Collective Labour Dispute Act. In these two existing laws, the liability provisions are formulated in a single paragraph and do not include any reference to the liability of a legal person. At present, only a natural person who is an employer can be held responsible. As a result, the Committee on Social Affairs is launching a draft law amending these laws and hopes that we will deal with it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U78	I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. We will continue to deal with them on the basis of our own rules of procedure. Incoming check, please! The assembly has 89 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U79	Let's get started. First of all, the draft law amending the Act on National Defence Penalty Penalty, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 572. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the final vote? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jah!'???]] I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on National Defence Penalty Penalty, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 572. Please take a stand and vote. There were 84 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the Bill 572 as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Law on National Defence Penalty Penalty has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U80	Next, the draft law amending the State Assets Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 570. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. We will hold a final vote on the Commission's proposal. I am voting on the draft law amending the State Assets Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 570. Please take a stand and vote. There were 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the draft 570 Act and 5 against, with no abstentions. The Act amending the State Assets Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U81	Second reading of the draft Act 563 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the Accommodation of Data and Information Systems. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Sven Sester, Chairman of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I give an overview of draft 563, which is the draft act ratifying the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the accommodation of data and information systems. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline of 6 March at 5:00. The draft has undergone technical and linguistic reorganisation in the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. No specific comments were received from the linguistic editor on the draft. The commission took procedural decisions, namely the decision to send the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 21 March, i.e. today, and the proposal is to pass the final vote on the draft 563. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U83	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Sven Sester! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft 563 were tabled. We are going to hold a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft Act 563 on the ratification of the Agreement on the Accommodation of Data and Information Systems between the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 78 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 563 as a law, and there were no opposed or impartial parties. The Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the Accommodation of Data and Information Systems has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U84	Continuation of second reading of § 341 of the Road Traffic Act, initiated by the Economic Commission. The rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs is Erki Savisaar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 12 March. A bit of a reminder of how this procedure has gone in the Riigikogu. The draft Act to supplement § 341 of the Traffic Act was initiated by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu on 7 June last year. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 13 June last year and the first reading was closed. The main objective of the draft Act supplementing § 341 of the Traffic Act is to increase the efficiency of road transport by extending the possibility of special services. The draft allows special carriages of all cargoes distributed by vehicles with a mass greater than the general requirements when the special carriage is carried out on a vehicle of the EURO V or less polluting exhaust class and the axles of the vehicle, with the exception of the axles with rotating wheels, are equipped with even wheels. Special services should also be carried out after the adoption of the draft act in accordance with Regulation No 114 of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, as well as with the procedure for carrying out the special transport operation and issuing special permits and with the reimbursement of expenses incurred by the road owner, the special authorisation fee and the special fee. The second reading of the draft 480 in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 21 November last year and the second reading was interrupted for the procedure for notifying the European Commission of the amendment to the technical regulation. The notification took place in accordance with the planned technical regulation established by the Government of the Republic, the requirement imposed on the information society service and the notification procedure for the provision of the service and the notification procedure was carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The deadline for submitting comments expired on 26 February and, according to the information provided by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, no comments were received on the draft 480. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law supplementing § 341 of the Road Traffic Act at its meeting on 12 March. During the meeting, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions were taken. The meeting was attended by Julia Bergštein, Adviser to the Road Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, at the Permanent Representation of the European Union, Brussels. The draft has undergone technical and linguistic reorganisation in the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was last December 5. The Steering Committee considered it necessary to amend the entry into force provision of the draft. Paragraph 2 of the Bill provided for the amendment of § 341 of the Traffic Act, including the entry into force of the Act on 1 January. As the date of entry into force of the draft has passed, a new deadline should be laid down. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, this Supplement to the Traffic Act could enter into force from the beginning of the second semester, which would provide the Road Administration with sufficient time to develop and supplement its information systems. The Steering Committee unanimously supported the amendment amending the time of entry into force of the Act. A consensus was also reached on the decision to end the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is closed, to carry out the third reading of the draft on 4 April and put the draft to a final vote of 480. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U86	Questions for the waitress. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U87	Thank you. Good waitress! The procedure has been going on for so long that maybe the memory will be refreshed. As I understand it, this change concerns the axle load limit for large vehicles. Let's remember history. At least as long as Juhan Parts was Minister of the Economy, this dispute with the carriers always ended at the place where the Ministry of the Economy, based on various studies, said that our roads and bridges would not withstand this greater burden, but the carriers were all of a different opinion. This dispute lasted for years, I think five years, if not longer. I'll check it out just in case. Has new data or explanations now come, or is it because the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is also willing to apply different rules now? That's my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U88	Thank you. This draft does not change the axle load limit. The axle load limit remains the same as it is, but vehicles with a higher overall mass on roads are allowed if all axles are double-wheeled and the car is of the EURO V or EURO VI emission class. Analysis by the Technical University shows that the adverse effects of such vehicles on roads are less than those of vehicles of much lower weight that are currently allowed on roads. So the axle loads are in place, but the total mass may increase under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U89	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U90	Good manager! Good waitress, first I want to thank you. As a reminder, this is a compromise proposal. When last year's car tax law came into force for heavy goods vehicles, it was the agreement that counterbalanced it. I am pleased that you also had a very good answer to our colleague. In fact, at some point somebody was shittin', we're doing a better law right now because the axle load isn't growing and the roads are gonna be much healthier. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U91	Was that a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U92	Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U93	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There is one amendment to the draft, which is acceptable to everyone. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft 480. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U94	Second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 556. The rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U95	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was launched on 4 December 2017, first reading already took place on 6 February this year. The deadline for receiving amendments was 20 February; by then we did not have any amendments from members of the Riigikogu or from committees. Interested organisations were involved in the preparation of this bill, but their proposal came before the first reading. In fact, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry asked for a more clearly to be written out in the explanatory memorandum, which was done before the first reading. So today I have to tell you about the four amendments that come from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The first specifies the definition of construction land. Amendment 3 relates to this. With regard to the provision of the definition of construction land in the law, one of the earlier implementing provisions relating to plots of land intended for construction becomes invalid. The second amendment relates to the entry into force of an amendment to the Securities Market Act on 3 January, while the unit of greenhouse gas emissions under the VAT Directive should now be subject to VAT. The Commission is proposing that this should be improved. The fourth amendment is procedural. The draft law initially provided for 1 April at the time of entry into force and those provisions concerning the taxation of construction land should have entered into force from 1 September, but for procedural reasons the time shifts one month forward, i.e. the deadlines are 1 May and 1 October. All the amendments received consensus in the Commission. In consensus, decisions were also taken to send the draft to the Chamber today, 21 March and the second reading to be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U96	Questions for the waitress. There are no questions. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Four amendments to the draft have been tabled. First, second, third and fourth proposals. The second reading of Bill 556 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U97	Second reading of draft law amending the Law on identity documents initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry (European Return Travel Document) 585. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Rein Randver. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the draft Act 585, the Identity Documents Act and the Amending Act on the Obligation to Leave and No Entry Act (European Return Travel Document) was discussed at the Commission on 12 March. I recall that the first reading of the bill in Riigikogu plenary was on 21 February. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 7 March, but no proposals were submitted by that date. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this issue and took procedural decisions. These are the following: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 21 March, today, to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed, by 4 April, and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U99	Questions for the waitress. No, it's not. Thank you, Rein Randver! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled on draft 585. Second reading is complete. The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U100	Let's continue. The first reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The initiator's waitress is Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U101	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to introduce you to the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws, according to which a loved one with a deep disability is granted the right to use up to five working days a year. About 30000 women and 17,000 men in Estonia are involved in the care of their loved ones. The burden on in-house carers is high both in the provision of care and in the payment of care services. According to the Estonian Labour Force Survey, around 8 000 people are excluded from the labour market due to the maintenance load and, in addition, 5 000 people are therefore employed part-time. Of course, family members are also cared for in addition to full-time work. We know that a carer's own health is affected by the high maintenance load, and because of the load, the carer can also become self-careable at one point. Between 2015 and 2017, the Working Party on Reducing Care Burdens, together with the State Chancellery, mapped out the problems related to the care of loved ones and proposed solutions. As a policy recommendation, the Task Force identified the need for special leave. This leave allows the worker to be absent from work in order to provide short-term care or care for the relative. On the basis of the Task Force's recommendations, in September 2017 we confirmed the primary maintenance burden reduction activities in the government: firstly, day and week care for people with deep mental disabilities; secondly, improving the quality and availability of services for elderly people with dementia diagnosis; thirdly, piloting the coordination system for primary care; fourthly, providing additional leave for a working family member of a deeply disabled person. In order to achieve the latter objective, this draft has been presented before you. In 2017, there were 14400 adults with deep disabilities in Estonia. This is certainly the most vulnerable group of people in need of care on a large scale. The current Employment Contracts Act provides for an additional period of 12 days in the calendar year for the parent, guardian or guardian of a disabled child to be able to deal with the child's special needs. However, since the child's adulthood, there is no such opportunity for loved ones. According to a study carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs in 2009 on the care burden of disabled people and their family members, 35% of carers with a deep disability had to make changes in their learning and work, which confirms the need to allow additional time for close relatives of adults with deep disability to deal with the special needs of a person with a deep disability. The purpose of the care leave provided is to give a close relative in employment the opportunity to visit a doctor with a person with a deep disability, plan to organise his/her care, spend time with a loved one with a deep disability, or allow leisure time for people who are burdened with this care every day. Combined with other measures to reduce primary care load, such as day- and week-care services and the adaptation of service places to demented customers, care leave would help to alleviate the maintenance load of loved ones, as well as encourage the sharing of care loads between loved ones, encourage the maintenance load to remain in work and provide additional security when entering the labour market. Now, a little more technical than the bill. The draft provides care leave of up to five working days per year for close relatives of a person with a deep disability of adult age. The leave is granted to an employee working on the basis of an employment contract who, as a result of the relationship between employer and employee's subordinates, needs specific legal protection in order to have free time to care for a loved one. A person who is an adult with a deep disability, first of all a parent, a grandparent, a child or a grandchild, or a relative of an ascendant or ascending; second, a brother, sister, half-brother or half-sister; third, a spouse or registered partner; fourth, a guardian or a designated guardian of a local government. All these persons together have a total of five working days of care leave per care provider per year. This arrangement will also enable the loved ones to plan care together. Maintenance leave is a holiday paid according to the bill and the employer pays for it at the minimum wage. In 2018, the daily fee for care leave is 23 euros and 26 cents. The Social Insurance Institution compensates the employer for the remuneration paid for the care leave from the state budget in the same way as the current parental leave fee is reimbursed. Unused care leave shall not be reimbursed in cash and unused leave shall not be transferred to the following calendar year. Its purpose is to motivate workers to take care leave every year. We have assessed that it is estimated that this holiday option could be used by around 40% of people with deep disabilities who are adults. In terms of cash, we will have a public budget cost of about EUR 800000. The draft is planned to enter into force as a law on 1 July. a. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U102	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U103	Thank you. This is certainly a major step forward compared to today's situation. You said 40% would start using this vacation for five days. Where did the rate of reimbursement come from that leave to be reimbursed at the minimum rate of pay? I remember when we talked earlier, it was like a lot of money. Where did that come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U104	Thank you. Indeed, compensation is provided for at a minimum rate of pay, which means that it will benefit more, rather than losing people with lower pay who make up a rather large proportion of these carers. But, of course, you could also think of a higher level of remuneration in the future. For example, if the child care days are also reimbursed on the basis of the minimum wage, for example, with paternity leave we arrived a few years ago at the fact that the average wage in Estonia is the basis. Basically, I think we could move in that direction in the future. The reason why the government has now come with such a proposal is that not all members of the government and ministries were fully convinced that such a thing was necessary at all. For example, the Ministry of Justice expressed doubts as to whether this regulation or additional leave would have the necessary effect. Consequently, in the first stage, we decided to move with such rates, but I hope that in the future we will be able to correct it. If this measure justifies itself as a step to reduce the maintenance burden, I think that this amount could certainly be higher in the future. We'll see how many users there really are from the first few years. We have now estimated that there could be around 40% of them, but it is clear that it is not possible to foresee this precisely. As of today, we have planned about EUR 800000 in the budget. This is certainly one of the issues that could be discussed in the future. But, as I said, yes, it was a government agreement in a situation where some members of the government were not fully convinced that it was a good thing. I'm convinced.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U105	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U106	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it, the Minister of Justice thinks it's no use, you think it is. But I'm asking you where you took those five days, why five days is the best one. What is this picture in our neighbouring countries, more civilized, I mean, Finland, Sweden, Germany? Do they also have five days, or do they have 15 days and are paid the so-called minimum wage?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U107	Thank you. I think Estonia is a civilized country and society. But if you ask how this system has been built up in societies that are wealthier than Estonia, I say that this type of holiday is generally considered an important part of reducing the maintenance burden. Of course, models vary from country to country. There is, of course, much more of these services in those countries where there is even more spending on 'long-term care'. Certainly, the situation is also different in terms of holidays. You have to look at all this stuff as a complex. After all, it is not just one special holiday regulation that solves this problem, the very heavy burden on the carers, both financially and in terms of time. In particular, because of the scarcity of resources, we have this system that the main obligation to support our loved ones is that if they are not managed on their own, families will have to do so on their own. After all, these discussions are also active in Estonian society, so that the local government, together with the state, could take on a bigger role. I'm sure it's pretty expensive. In those countries where much more is spent on these services, public expenditure has still been a few per cent of GDP. Of course, they can also offer higher benefits. But what we need is a bit of a broader debate on where we want to go as a society with this long-term care issue. I think, as has been said, that we could aim to reduce the burden on families and that the state and the municipality could take on it more. But this is a very important fundamental change, which is quite expensive for society. I think this discussion should definitely continue in society. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, during this government, we have agreed on initial steps to reduce the maintenance burden. As has been said, one part of them is the same five-day holiday, but there are other things: day- and week-care, providing better services for people with dementia diagnosis, piloting the system of coordination of care, etc. Where did the five working days come from? This was due to the fact that five working days usually lasted one week, so it came from there. In some other regulation, it has been put in place as such, but in the end, it is the place of agreement. Certainly in the future, if this step has justified itself, as has been said, it is worth looking forward and making it better, both in terms of amount and number of days. I also mentioned in my report that children with disabilities, for example, are offered 12 days extra leave in the calendar year. So I would certainly look at this draft as a 'first step in the right direction in this system, which needs to be further developed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U108	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U109	Thank you. The draft provides for the right to care leave for carers who are close to a disabled person. Introduce, please, why you made such a decision, probably knowing very well that there are very many people in need of care 24 hours a day, who simply have some illness, such as sick or demented people lying down, who do not necessarily have a disability. Do you want to give a signal that people should necessarily make disability at the Social Insurance Board in any case? The same question about the difference between deep and severe trees, which is known to be so fragile. All other services, such as day and week care and childcare, are always intended for people with severe and deep disabilities. What was the justification? I am asking, in particular, because we are in the process of having a Euro Directive, which, when it comes to regulating the same issue, stresses that we cannot only rely on disability but must be based on care needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U110	Thank you. There is one minute to ask the question, and two questions can be asked, not all of which need to be asked in one question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U111	Thank you. In your last comment, you turned down half the answer. In Estonia, there is a situation where we do not have a uniform system of universality for assessing a person's need for care. This is why it is difficult, if not impossible, to create such a large and universal system in terms of both services and subsidies. We know that conditions and situations differ even from one municipality to another, not to mention that individual people should be viewed individually. Consequently, one part of the steps taken to reduce the maintenance load is the same uniform piloting of the maintenance needs system. We are trying to do this so that we can reach the needs of care at one point in the Estonian country, hopefully not in the very distant future, but rather quickly, so that we can really assess, on a uniform basis, all the people in need of care throughout the country and, consequently, agree on what services and benefits they could receive. We don't have that system today. As a result, we have used this instrument, which exists in today's legal space and in social policy practice, to create this holiday regulation. It's the same disability status. I agree, there are some so-called bottlenecks, but on the other hand it is the methodology that has so far been the basis for the different choices of social policy. Is it perfect? No, it's not. I would like to see a future assessment of the specific needs for care and a much better planning and implementation of measures. The question of why only people with deep disabilities, not even those with severe disabilities, have been taken into account here, will continue the same discussion a little bit, if it has been asked here before, what is the minimum threshold and how many days there are. The third question, which was certainly discussed in the drafting of this measure, was who the target group is. As has been said, since not all members of the government had the ultimate assurance that such a thing was needed at all, caution was exercised when deciding how wide a circle it could apply. Consequently, we have offered a scheme to ensure that this applies to the people most in need of care. I think that this is also certainly one of the issues that could be discussed in the future. Although I agree with you that, in the longer term, instead of taking into account the status of 'disabilities', one could really switch to assessing the need for care on a uniform basis and therefore plan both services and grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U112	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is about the same as I asked in the Commission. This concerns the contractual relationship between the persons who still have the right to care leave. It says here the Employment Contracts Act, on the basis of which we expect it to come to people working under an employment contract. In changing times, however, there are very different forms of contract. Take, for example, a contract of command, but in fact, a management contract may be even more important, etc. Does it not seem to you that, if this applies only to people working under a contract of employment, then in that case we are a little discriminatory against other groups? Why the choice, if that's the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U114	Thank you. Of course, those people who have the right to leave regulated by law are entitled to leave. These are people working under an employment contract. I'll answer in two parts. First of all, an explanation of why this is the case. This is because the Employment Contracts Act protects the weaker party of the employment contract, which is the employee. Under the law, working under an employment contract is a relationship of subordination between an employer and an employee. This means that an employee must carry out these duties if they comply with the law and other rules that the employer gives him, at the time and in the manner agreed. That is why the protection of an employee is enshrined in the law, which protects the employee from the employer or, rather, guarantees certain social rights that have been agreed upon. These include hours of work and rest, just like pay, and certainly also holidays, whether weekly or annual. This is why this leave also applies to contract staff. Nobody else is granted leave in the contractual sense. This is because people working under debt-law contracts, whether that contract is a contract of employment or a contract of law, do not have working time in the classic sense. We know there are debt-law contracts, where, for example, working time is provided, they say it is a contract of command or a contract of employment, but you have to be in a specific place every day from 9:00 to 5:00 a.m. from Monday to Friday and do that or do that. By its very nature, it is a contract of employment relationship. In such situations, the Labour Inspectorate converts this debt-law contract into an employment contract. If a debt-law contract is converted into an employment contract, this employee also has the right to leave. Of course, it is worth discussing whether people working on other grounds should enjoy some kind of social guarantee that people in an employment contract have. I think it is appropriate to have this debate, but in today's legal framework, when we are talking about holiday, we can, in principle, only talk about the holidays of people working on the basis of a contract of employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U115	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U116	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. There is no doubt that care leave is a good thing, but it is only the first measure in the maze of problems faced by carers. What is the broader picture of how to proceed with this maintenance issue? How do you view care insurance, for example? Do you think that parents must be financially dependent on children, or do you think they should be "independent" so that they can decide their own affairs? This is certainly a very broad question. In this Chamber, this was discussed as an important national issue. We're not exactly sure what your position is. How can we proceed on this very difficult road? What options do you first see about nursing homes, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U117	I think that the situation that exists in Estonia is unsustainable and that this arrangement does not make sense either. It is clear that the vast majority of people in need of care, i.e. the elderly, but not only, are unable to pay for their long-term care by means of their income or property. Family law places this obligation on relatives, which in itself places many families in a difficult situation, but many, together with the family, are not able to cover these costs. In my opinion, the only viable solution in the longer term is that the state, together with the local government, must take greater responsibility here. How exactly this happens, what this model is, it's a care insurance or an extension of the state or local government service package, it's definitely a debate place. It is clear that the country needs to invest more in this area, I mean both the central government and the government. Let us be honest, the fact that family law obliges relatives to support their loved ones in such situations has certainly been one of the reasons why local authorities have often failed to develop the necessary services, with the same reference to look, but the law says that children are responsible for what I then have to do with it. I think this thing should be argued and clarified in society. My personal view is certainly that the state must take a significantly larger role, provide a much more service, but its assumption is, of course, that, or one part of it is, yes, it is probably a prerequisite for us to be able to assess, on a uniform basis across the country, the need for care for people, which we do not yet know how to do in this way. If we can do that, I think this is finally a political decision. There are also different views of political parties as to whether people themselves should pay for the things that are important to them. Some parties have such a view of the weather that they think they are. My party rather thinks that this is a socially important service that affects not only those people of working age who need care, but also people of working age, and it is in society's interest that the system should function optimally and, above all, that children should not go to this prison and that the carers themselves should not degrade their dignity in any way. I think that this solution must be found by the country, but it is certainly not cheap. The same task force says that in order to achieve this, we should talk about about 2% of GDP in the longer term, which is about EUR 500 million in today's money. This is certainly not something that can be done with a small budget decision; it still requires a long-term and quite large political agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U118	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U119	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I'm asking about the effects of the law. You have pointed out that the burden of employers' work to recover holiday pay may increase as an undesirable effect. I understand that there is no adequate base from which employers can obtain information on whether their employees are close to a deep disability or whether they are designated as guardian. What is behind it that the employer is unable to see an adequate reality? What are the actions to eliminate this potential shortage?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U120	Thank you. This system is, in fact, analogous to what we are planning here with the system of other state-reimbursable holidays. Just because the explanatory memorandum also needs to highlight all possible effects, it has been identified as an effect, but it is more theoretical in nature. This concerns the situation in which a person goes and says that he or she is going to take care of a loved one who qualifies under this category so that the employee should be given this leave, but later it turns out that the person has either cheated on his or her employer or has misunderstood whether or not he or she is entitled to it, but the employer has paid for those days. Let us be honest about how much can happen in practice. This recovery procedure is also a relatively extreme example. If the person has been granted leave on this basis and the employer has wanted to receive reimbursement from the Social Insurance Board later, but has not received compensation because it has become apparent that the person was not on such leave for example, then the employer will be able to count those days as the normal holiday days of the employee and pay for them in general. So by its very nature in practice, as it has become clear, when we have been communicating with different parties on how it could be, this negative effect is more theoretical than real.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U121	Good manager! Good minister! You know that the World Bank says it would be normal to allocate 2% of GDP to personal care, in Estonia it is 0.6%. Your good colleague and party associate, the Minister of Defence, commands 2.1%, so it is three times as much, even more than your chances as the leader of the party. Now you're coming up with that 0.7 million. Thanks for that, too. But is this five days due to the fact that you shared the 0.7 million you were given with this small minimum wage rate and received five days? Or am I wrong about the fact that it was this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U122	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U123	Thank you, Mr Ernits. You were wrong in your speech on quite a number of occasions, as sad as it may seem. First of all, my party partner is not the Minister of Defence. And long-term care really takes 0.6% of GDP, but health care, for example, takes over 5%. So the sums that the Ministry of Social Affairs spends on social protection and various services are a little more than the sums that go on long-term care issues alone, but long-term care is undoubtedly one of those places where we need a'systemic solution' and where we do not have a solution. That is why we are certainly discussing this and this debate is very timely. It is simply, as I said, if we want to resolve this systemically, we must take into account that today we do not have a global model, this solution, we do not have a single assessment of the need for care, on which we can build services and agree what the state is doing and what the local government is doing. I hope that in the coming years we will have done this preparatory work in such a way that it will be possible to decide politically also on specific amounts in order for this model to work as a whole. Your second question was, did we get to five working days, so we took some money, and then we shared and multiplied. The answer is no. That's not how we did it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U124	Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U125	Thank you. You referred several times to the fact that a better system can be done once a common system of assessment has been developed. However, for example, for the maintenance sheet, family doctors already value it today, and they certainly do so not only on the basis of the degree of disability, but on the basis of the real need for care. How much did you consider when you worked out the draft that people would sue you for unequal treatment and that the state would be obliged to increase this cost maybe five times?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U126	Thank you. We have not taken this opportunity into account because we have taken the view that this draft is constitutional.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U127	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U128	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'll come to the effects. Let's think about how this process works: the employee applies to the employer, the employer applies to the Social Insurance Board, the Social Insurance Board processes and then makes the corresponding entries for the employer. Maybe there's an administrative burden, and it's kind of a long process. It also suggests that the processing of applications for reimbursement of the care leave fee to the Social Insurance Board leads to an increase in the workload. But because of this increase, the Social Insurance Board is not planning to provide additional resources, but rather to create a new IT system. That's my question. We have a little problem at the Social Insurance Board with the IT system. It says here that a corresponding IT solution will be created. Let us see how much it costs: EUR 120,000 this year and next year. So how far away are we with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U129	Thank you. I will be honest with you that is a good question that I do not have an answer to. Our authority, Tehik, or our Information Systems Centre, has confirmed that this system can be created in such a way that this law can be implemented from 1 July 2018. But I'm sure I'll be happy to elaborate on that and give you an additional answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U130	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U131	Thank you. We read here that leave is also granted to a registered partner to care for a disabled person, and in the explanatory memorandum we read that a registered partner within the meaning of the Cohabitation Act. As we know, the Cohabitation Act was to enter into force when implementing legislation was adopted. They have not been adopted and the Cohabitation Act has not entered into force. How can you sign here under a law that does not exist and does not work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U132	Thank you, Mr. Pier. I sympathise with you because you still have a serious complex when you look for the question of partners in every bill that concerns any subject. But if it is, it is. The Cohabitation Act has been passed by the Riigikogu, it has entered into force and been published in the Official Journal of the State and is therefore mandatory for all state institutions to comply with it. It is regrettable that certain acts essential for the implementation of this law, which allow the realisation of these rights in some areas, are not adopted by the Riigikogu, but it does not in any way nullify the fact that the cohabitation act has been adopted, entered into force, published in the Official Journal of the State and also valid as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U133	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U134	Thank you. Dear Minister, This draft has also been approved by the Minister for Social Protection. My question is whether Kaia Iva wanted to introduce a five-day vacation into the bill for carers of people with severe disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U135	Thank you. Of course, the bill has been approved by the government, which means that all members of the government have accepted it. As I said, some members of the government have disagreed on whether it has a positive effect or not. But no such proposal was made at government level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U136	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U137	Thank you. It's not us who's looking for matters related to the law of cohabitation, it's you who stuff them everywhere. The explanatory memorandum states clearly that within the meaning of the Cohabitation Act. If you feel sorry for us, I feel sorry for you that you do not understand the laws or their entry into force. As regards the Cohabitation Act, it was clearly stated that it would enter into force with the adoption of implementing acts. Implementing acts have not been adopted, the Cohabitation Act has not entered into force. Your coalition partner Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, has also said quite clearly and repeatedly that the Cohabitation Act has not entered into force, it does not apply. How do you deal with such differences in the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U138	Thank you for your sympathy. It is true that the Minister of Justice has an opinion on this issue, but the Ministry of Justice has taken the exact opposite position on this matter. Well, people can still have different feelings, and therefore, in a society with freedom of expression, different laws can also be viewed differently. But, as I said, the decision of the legislator is mandatory for the Government of the Republic. The legislator has said that the Cohabitation Act is in force, and the Ministry of Social Affairs cannot in any way circumvent this decision. Of course, all acts proposed as drafts and laws treat partners equally with their spouses in these places and to the exact extent that the law on partnership provides for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U139	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will pass on to you the question of one person who has formalised himself as a self-employed person for the very reason of caring for a deep disability. His question to you in the light of this bill is this: does he gain any advantages with this bill, or does he remain outside the limits of this bill at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U141	This particular situation should be clarified. It is also possible to work for a self-employed person on the basis of an employment contract, but if the person is self-employed, he or she is legally an entrepreneur and is treated in the same way as an employee under a debt contract or, for example, a member of the management board. He doesn't have fixed hours, no one gives him orders from the top, so the state doesn't give him protection here. As has been said, it is, of course, appropriate to discuss, as a whole, what social guarantees could be for people working under different contracts, because it is clear that the labour market is changing, but this debate comes out of the scope of this draft. Of course, we have been discussing here the grounds on which people can obtain health insurance, the basis on which unemployment insurance is obtained, for example, whether the self-employed have a matter for the unemployment fund and so on. I think that these are, in themselves, important debates, and I think that in the longer term, as the flexibility of the labour market increases, the flexibility of national social protection systems could also increase. This draft will give this opportunity to people working under an employment contract, given the current legal space.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U142	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much for your answers. Helmen Kütt, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U143	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! On 12 March, the Social Affairs Committee prepared a draft law amending the said Act, the Employment Contracts Act and the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws 596 for the first reading at its meeting and heard the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski, the Adviser of the Department of Working Life Development Monika Koks and the Head of Labour Relations Policy of the same department, Marilis Prissi. Häli Tarum, Head of the Welfare Department, also participated. They all provided explanations and answers to the members of the Commission. The debate was long and thorough; there were many questions. I would like to thank all those who have asked the Minister questions today, because the same questions were also asked in the Committee on Social Affairs, and I would not dwell on them. I will present the issues that were the subject of the debate in the Commission, but which were not asked about in this Chamber. As regards the assessment of pilotage and maintenance needs, the question was whether existing methodologies were to be used, as the need for maintenance has been long piloted and different models and methodologies have been used. The Minister replied that there was no objective national picture of the need for care, including differences in the definition of guardian in the municipalities. The problem is precisely that, to the detriment of such a general nationwide system, it does not affect the social sector and also health. Häli Tarum added that this was a pilot project for the coordination of care and that it was an assessment of the need for maintenance. Maintenance coordinators will work in six municipalities. Family doctors and social workers will direct people with a more complex need for care. The methodology for the assessment of InterRAI will be used. There was the same question as here, about employment relationships, because the forms of work are changing and why this group was chosen. There was also a question of the deadlines for entry into force, because this draft, however, concerns a number of drafts that we have previously dealt with. The Ministry of Social Affairs therefore sent us additional materials. Everything corresponds to the dates of entry into force set out in the draft. Interested in the InterRAI instrument, where there are still several people on the evaluation team, between three and five. Häli Tarum explained that, now that IT solutions give this opportunity, the person's family doctor, social worker and also the rehabilitation team can play their part by means of an IT solution and the care coordinator will receive full information. There was also interest in the employer's need to start recovering holiday pay, as it may happen that the Social Insurance Board refuses to compensate for some reason. In this regard, the answer that has already been voiced in this Chamber was that this opportunity is being kept to a minimum. The risk of fraud is still very low. They asked how long the pilot project lasts. It was explained that this period starts in July, lasts a year, but the first results are already obtained after six months. The Minister considered it important to clarify that holidays are not directly related to this pilot project, because these provisions will enter into force when the Riigikogu decides to adopt this law on 1 July 2018. Then people who are entitled to five working days' paid leave according to this bill will have the opportunity to receive it. The Commission decided (all decisions were consensual) to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 21 March, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 5 April at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur, the speaker before you. All the decisions were consensual, and all the 8 members of the Commission who attended the meeting were in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U144	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U145	Thanks again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U146	I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. As we have just heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 596. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft by 5 April at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U147	The eighth item is the first reading of the draft cyber security law 597 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I call Urve Palo, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, as rapporteur for the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U148	Good afternoon. Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has presented you with a novel law that will come to the first reading today, a draft law on cyber security. There are several reasons to initiate the law. First of all, by this law, we are transposing the Estonian legal space into the European Network and Information Security Directive. To be honest, Estonia does not need to do much of this in itself, because the principles and requirements of the directive have been largely guaranteed before, even though they have been spread out in different legislations. This dispersal has sometimes led to confusion about how to deal with cyber threats and how to deal with incidents. That is why we set the task of transporting the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Agency of the RIA, or Information System, not just to transpose the directive in Estonia, but to use it as an opportunity to improve legal order. The purpose of the draft law is thus to establish clear regulation for the protection of cyberspace, to ensure the necessary response to cyber threats, as well as legal clarity for cooperation between the state and businesses and responsibility for ensuring cyber security. Only in this way will we be able to protect the digital state that we have built in the best possible way when we create regulation that does not just meet the minimum agreed in Europe, but also the needs of Estonia in general. The current Estonian legal space does not support the growing IT complexity of society, does not take into account the surrounding cyber threats and does not sufficiently guarantee the protection of our digital state and the services necessary for people to live. For example, national cyber security and cyber defence obligations have been on the shoulders of institutions that may not have a sufficient overview of what is happening in cyberspace when providing their services. Service providers have been required to resolve cyber incidents and make decisions that affect the whole of Estonia, for example, whether and how the e-state works. Public authorities have only been able to act as references in this regard, but they have not had the possibility to give orders or to take responsibility for the resolution of a wider cyber incident. At the same time, certain situations, such as saving autumn ID-cards, require swift and clear action from the state to protect society as a whole in order to maintain confidence, which is an essential basis for the preservation of the digital state. The draft Cyber Security Act, in its proposed form, resolves these shortcomings. For example, the State Information System Authority, or RIA, which is under the jurisdiction of MKM, is finally officially entrusted with the coordination of national cyber security, having de facto fulfilled it for years, in addition to the powers and rules of conduct in solving cyber incidents. The role of the RIA, from monitoring, analysis and emergency reports, or prevention, is to be more able to resolve cyber incidents and monitor the requirements of the law, up to the point that, in the case of a cyber incident with a heightened threat, it may restrict the use of the system or its access to it to counter the threat. I would stress here that this can only be done by the RIA if the incident could endanger other systems, that is to say large-scale, the system operator cannot or does not want to counter the threat itself, and the use of the measure is proportionate and does not cause excessive damage. The State already operates in the same way in the face of other threats, such as law enforcement or rescue. In the case of a burning house, the fire shall be prevented from passing on to neighbouring houses. In cyberspace, we must be able to do the same because there is a close link between different services and systems in the information society. In such cases, the draft states that, if necessary, the State will be liable for any losses. However, this is an extreme measure that we hope will never have to implement. This will be preceded by many other steps, which will also become the legal basis for the future. For example, the RIA can now give orders to the threat authority to repair the service itself or to shut down temporarily. For example, if there is a suspicion that the critical air traffic control systems have malware that allows the system to be taken over. At present, the airport has no basis for RIA's recommendation to suspend its services, but this should not be the case. As always, it is better to be safe than sorry. Instead of being able to respond to realised cyber-risks, it is better to commit more to prevention. To this end, the law imposes specific obligations, i.e. requirements to ensure the security of its network and information system, for three target groups. First, services essential to the functioning of the society in terms of vital service providers, key infrastructure companies and Estonian Internet SA. Secondly, digital service providers, companies providing an online trading venue service (e-shops), search engine service or cloud computing services for companies employing more than 50 employees. The third target group is public authorities and local government units. Their responsibilities range from the requirements for carrying out risk assessments and implementing the necessary security measures to the obligation to monitor their systems, to communicate risk information and to resolve incidents, where appropriate by limiting the use of the system or access. Most of these requirements have already been mandatory for critical service providers and public authorities under the Emergency Act. The draft specifies the procedures for informing the RIA of incidents. It is the obligation to monitor systems that has been added as a new obligation to prevent and detect cyber incidents even before damage occurs. The innovation is this: the information security requirements for public authorities and the local government unit have so far only been applicable to databases, while the draft extends the security requirements for the network and information system to all systems, such as email and file servers and document management systems, in order to be better prepared for cyber threats across the board. However, the requirements should not impose a significant additional burden on the bodies covered by the draft and should not require significant additional budgetary resources. Basic hygiene has had to be implemented by public authorities in the development and administration of their IT systems for ten years on the basis of the ISKE security framework in force in Estonia. Perhaps if it has been met, there should be no special costs. It all depends, of course, on the base, whether it's met or not. The requirements for digital service providers in the private sector are somewhat simpler: the obligation to carry out risk analysis, to implement the measures necessary to manage risks, to inform the competent authority of the country where they are located (Estonia RIA) about cyber incidents with significant impact. At the same time, pay attention! According to the European Union Directive, this does not concern micro and small enterprises providing digital services, which make up the majority of the companies in Estonia. The market logic says that digital service providers, whether small or large, have already had to implement information security measures. The law does not add new great responsibilities to them in real life. If digital service providers have no information security, they will not be able to attract or hold customers. We are therefore de facto legitimising the activities needed and carried out, specifying in particular the obligation and procedures for reporting incidents, as the European Union Directive provides. The law is planned to enter into force by the deadline for transposition of the Directive, i.e. 10 May 2018. By way of derogation, the requirements of the Act for the Estonian Internet Foundation and the state and local government unit would enter into force on 1 January 2020. The transitional period is due in particular to the restructuring of the state and local government units as a result of the administrative reform. Finally, I would like to stress that, although the draft law speaks in the language of claims and obligations, cooperation is actually important. Estonia's successful cyber defence model so far is based on community approach, cooperation between the state, companies and also educational institutions. Security cannot be taken lightly and neither the state nor companies alone can guarantee security in cyberspace as a whole. The Cyber Security Act is therefore the basis for further building on this cyber defence model. More detailed provisions of the draft law lay down more precise arrangements for cooperation, as well as division of labour, so that we can jointly protect our e-state and information society, which benefits Estonia so much every day. In this way, I believe that by adopting a new and comprehensive cyber security law, we can be pioneers, especially in the European context, in a very fast-growing cyber world. One of the foundations of the draft law, the European Union's Network and Information Security Directive, is also aimed at building cooperation. The implementation of the Directive will strengthen and harmonise cybersecurity cooperation between EU countries. For Estonia, cyber security has always been important and more experience, skills, technology and information about what is happening in national cyberspaces are shared. It's been important to us. Only in this way will we ensure the necessary security for the functioning of the Digital Single Market and we will be able to do more in each Member State than just acting alone, because cybercrime knows no borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U149	People's ambassadors also have questions, such as Peter Ernitsal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U150	Good manager! Good minister! I read here with concern that in 2016, there were 253 vital service attacks, 650 or 54 attacks a month last year, i.e. just under two attacks a day. So in a year, they've gotten more than twice as many. What is the situation, for example, in March or February? Now are there two or three attacks a day?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U151	Thank you! Cyber attacks, both by bill and de facto, are dealt with in themselves by the RIA, i.e. the State Information System Authority. Since the current situation is that there is no obligation for companies to report attacks, I imagine that the information of very many attacks does not reach us at all, i.e. many attacks are not reported and we do not know about them. What is the situation now, this is certainly more of a question for the RIA. I don't know exactly how many cyber attacks have taken place this month, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U152	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U153	Thank you. In fact, the RIA has a very good overview of the major cyber attacks, they have this information and they take stock of it every month. However, I wanted to ask what would change in the light of the new law if we were thinking, for example, about the ID-card crisis, which you mentioned in your speech. The law is, of course, necessary in itself, not for transposing the directive, but for the Estonian state. We do more here than we're expected. Legal clarity is, of course, very important, responsibility and greater powers for the RIA as well. What tools or powers did the National Information System Agency, the Police Department or the MKM have this time without a specific ID-card case? What void should the new law now fill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U154	Thank you. I didn't think I said before that the RIA didn't have any information on cyber incidents. I said: I believe that there will be even more information after the law has been implemented, because then companies will be obliged to report it. At the moment, we do not even know what has been reported or not, although, of course, very much is reported. With regard to the lessons learned from the ID-card, internal analyses have already been carried out and an external assessment has also been completed. In the near future, we will discuss the lessons of the ID card in the government, the RIA will come with them to the meeting of the cabinet, and we will be able, among other things, to see if there is any improvement in terms of this law. I don't have any analyses yet, so I don't know exactly what to say right now, but they're gonna come soon, and if there's any interest, you can share them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U155	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U156	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You have announced that you have not only dealt with the adoption of the directive, but have looked at the wider area. A few weeks ago, the Minister of Justice went to the Riigikogu to present the 2017 report on criminal policy. It turned out again that cyber-thematics, or cyber-crime, is still not the basis for monitoring the Ministry of Justice, although I would argue that since 2010 it could have been a daily activity looking at global trends, and we too have been aware. My question is this: did you also negotiate with the respective units of the Ministry of Justice, the Police and Border Guard Board within the framework of this draft on how to deal with prevention and guarantee cyber security?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U157	The draft has passed through all the coordination circles, including the ministries you mentioned, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, which have given their feedback and have also been approved by the government, both ministers have approved it. Of course, cyber security is an obligation for all public authorities, including the Ministry of Justice. I am not familiar with your conversation here in the Riigikogu and do not know exactly what the Minister of Justice said, but of course this topic is important to all state institutions. Cybersecurity is a cross-cutting issue, it is horizontal and everyone must comply with it. I don't know how to answer you any more than the fact that this is the duty of the Justice Department. And I expect them to do their duty. Of course, as I said at the end of my speech, this law provides for 'commands and prohibitions', but in reality we still want to build a real life for cooperation, we have so far done so. RIA officials have always been prepared to advise when asked. In addition, they have analysed how the rules are followed and will continue to do so in ministries. Among other things, guidance and assistance material will be developed on what cybersecurity means and how to ensure it. All this work is for cooperation. People are also needed to do all of this, because both national and supranational cooperation is linked to people. Five additional jobs have been planned for this purpose in the RIA, to which I have also asked for funding in the course of the national budgetary strategy procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U158	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U159	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Everything that is connected to electromagnetic waves is being bitten open at some point in time. With reverse calculations, all the codes and all the other things can be retrieved. Security is a matter of time, because once again, we have to renew and make changes to be in front of the villains by a millimeter at all times, say. Are there security features for other media, such as light, a quantum of light, or some quantum mechanics that can shut things down in such a way that there is no single ghost? Are such alternatives intended or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U160	Thank you. That's such a good question. [[Laughing.]] I don't even know if it's meant to be. I would probably advise you to address this question to the RIA.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U161	Arto Aas, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U162	Thank you. Good minister! I think that processing this bill here in the Riigikogu will not be a problem. There is nothing party-political here; it has indeed been prepared by good experts and has been long awaited. The Reform Party is definitely helping here. However, we would take advantage of the opportunity to ask what the overall state of our IT investments is. Very much of the necessary investments are based on euro money, which, as you know, may end up or be significantly reduced at some point, but the functioning of the Estonian state is increasingly dependent on investment in information technology. The other half of this coin is, of course, human. Can we pay top specialists a good salary and provide them with exciting work? Many people have recently left the same State Information System Authority, which has a very important role to play in maintaining the Estonian e-governance, and finding new ones is difficult. What solutions do you see?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U163	Thank you. In 2018, the central government's ICT budget will be around 120 million euros, for which both new solutions will be developed and existing improvements and maintenance, i.e. insurance, will take place. Let me give you some major examples of what's going on. There will be an in-depth overhaul of the e-Tax Board in terms of internal engine or solution as well as user view and services, preparation of the electronic census, the process of setting up companies and updating the business register, development and simplification of environmental permit applications, digital conversion in the field of education, including digitalisation of exams and study materials, and further development of the social security benefits information system. There is a new digital registration office, as well as redesigning the health information system, a thorough innovation of the portal eesti.ee, transition to a new ID card, including updates of basic software plus developments to recognise digital identities in European countries, etc. I don't read them all. At the same time, I have to point out what you said yourself: it is not only about how we are developing IT further, i.e. in the initial investment, but the problem is that the maintenance of information systems created in Estonia has been underfunded for years. There have been very large deficits to keep what has been done and to update it, which we are now trying to make up for, among other things. This spring, we are planning, within the framework of the country's budgetary strategy, a greater injection of funds for the coming years to reduce this debt. We can't just keep running if we don't keep the old one and develop. As a result, both the heart and face of the e-governance thrive. That's what we're focusing on and what we're counting on. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance had just negotiated the state budget yesterday. I have also submitted requests for money for this purpose; the RIA could develop and increase its competence; of course, people are a particularly important part of it. All these things have been on the negotiating table. I dare say that I saw and understood everything at the Ministry of Finance. I understand that not only is the Ministry of Finance discussing the possibility of raising the RIA payroll fund, but a study has been carried out by various agencies, including the IT sector salary survey in the country. This means that it is probably planned to raise the pay of ICT workers in all ministries and administrations. It is clear that we can develop and create everything, but if there are no people who will continue to do it and maintain it, nothing will happen. We know that the state has been stuck paying salaries for years, because private sector wages have gone way out of the way. When people go from the public sector to the private sector, our e-government suffers. What you have pointed out, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, is a very big problem and an important question. Thank you for this and I am counting on your support here in the Riigikogu. In any case, the government has already paid very much attention to this. Really, a bigger injection of money has been planned, and it's coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U164	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U165	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You really opened up a very big subject. My question is based on the National Reform Plan, where you are the carrier of an effective chapter of the state. In today's Question Time, we also talked to the Minister for Public Administration about how to make our administration more efficient, given that our administration is overpowering the country, given that our population is not growing, but is shrinking. You said that this draft would create five new jobs in the RIA. It's a state resource. Are these five jobs created for an existing RIA resource, will the RIA receive an additional injection of funds for this purpose, or will it be done at the expense of the Ministry's own resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U166	Thank you, good questioner! The answer is that these are additional jobs in the RIA. As I said, the RIA has been underbuilt for years, underfunded. However, the heart of cyber security in our e-state is right there, and cyber threats only increase the importance of protecting our data. We are increasingly dependent on whether we can further develop our e-state in such a way that people really feel: it is still safe. We have to contribute even more to this. Indeed, the RIA does not have such internal resources, which it was as if they had previously dropped and done some things that are no longer needed, and now they will be dealing with cyber security instead. So there are additional jobs and there are additional resources in the budget. There is no money to be transferred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because our ICT department is still very slim and small in itself, given the outcome we are expected to achieve and what we are doing. This is where you can't save up. But the work that is being done, even when talking about e-state development at all, involves invisible services that ultimately reduce bureaucracy and also help save jobs across the country. For example, if a child is born, the parent can do business at the computer right now, but at different places, depending on whether he or she wants to apply for a birth certificate, a child's day care position, a parental benefit, or apply for child benefit to be transferred to his or her account. This is just an example of what we're working on. In the future, it would all be an "invisible service" that is all in one place. A person simply answers 'yes' or 'no' and does not have to look for any channels. All of this we are developing now, in English it is invisible services, in Estonian it is probably 'invisible services'. This should ultimately reduce the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U167	Erki Savisaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am extremely pleased that the various laws and regulations have come together as a specific law that deals specifically with the issue of cyber security. I would also comfort my colleague, Mr Sults, that the importance of electromagnetic waves will be reduced if we cover Estonia by means of an optical network over the next five years, because the need for all these Wi-Fis and copper cables is smaller. However, I ask here whether, apart from the general guidelines that are in the law, there will be some regulations that specifically address the technical rules on how one or the other company should ensure cybersecurity. Or are we still left with the general guidelines that exist today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U169	Thank you. As a general rule, public enterprises and public authorities are given general guidance by the State and develop information security standards that need to be met. When we talk about businesses, their specifics can be very different, they can belong to some larger specific groups, and mostly there are international standards that they have to meet.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U170	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U171	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I heard your comparison of the remuneration of IT professionals in the public sector and in the private sector. You also mentioned a major injection of funds into the IT sector in the country. Can it be estimated how much money would actually be needed to equalise the level of pay between the private and public sectors, which is currently to the detriment of the public sector, as you said?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U172	Thank you very much, very good question. This is exactly what the Ministry of Finance is doing right now. In yesterday's negotiations, too, it was said that it was the issue of pay that I brought the remuneration of the people of the RIA into a separate debate, apart from the renewal of the systems, etc., that they would collect information from all ministries. In turn, they have carried out, or rather commissioned, a corresponding market survey across different sectors, including the IT sector. They're putting together the whole picture, so I'm sure it's happening at the Ministry of Finance. I don't have it yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U173	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U174	Good manager! Good minister! I read here that the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association says: the title of the draft is misleading. Cyber security law, cyber security law? You haven't taken that into account. Why haven't you? However, the key issue is that, as I understand it, a new cybersecurity strategy is being made. How far is it, and how does this relate to this directive, which is now to be transposed in a hurry?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U175	Thank you for your question. I do not quite agree that this is a hurried takeover. Although, yes, it came to the Riigikogu today and there is not much time to process, yet the preliminary work has been done for a long time. Negotiations have been conducted with representatives of different ministries, administrations and the private sector. True, in this Riigikogu you do not have too much time to process, I agree with that, but the preliminary work has been carried out for a long time. Indeed, we are also working on the development of a cybersecurity strategy. In particular, because, for example, the Ministry of Defence issues have been left out of this draft at times and can be taken into account there. We are moving in such a rhythm that we would like this strategy to be completed by the end of this year, not by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U176	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much. Johannes Kert, Member of the National Defence Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister has already given you quite a detailed presentation of the objectives, content and implications of the draft as well. The draft takes over the European Network and Information Security Directive. Internally, security measures and cyber incident reporting requirements are introduced for essential service and digital service providers. The tasks of the National Supervisory Authority, or the National Information System Authority, in coordinating cyber security and organising cross-border cooperation will also be specified. The Commission meeting explained that for reasons of legal clarity a separate draft law was drawn up which provides a legal basis for the effective prevention and resolution of cyber threats. The draft allows for the development of a cyber justice space that responds to Estonia's needs and not only to the minimum required by the European Union Directive. The draft offers an opportunity to develop the cyber area in the future, so it is a law that builds the way and sets goals. At its meeting on 15 March 2018 (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu, including the 21st of March, and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The draft committee was appointed rapporteur, and the National Defence Committee decided (consensus) to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 4 April. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U178	My colleague Arto Aas! There are two questions we can ask, but there will be after the negotiations, so there will certainly be some way to express our thoughts. Honourable waitress! It turns out there are no questions for you in that sense, perhaps not in another way. I will open negotiations with the representatives of the political groups if anyone wants to. Even Arto Asa doesn't. Thank you. As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 597. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 4 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U179	The ninth item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and consequently amending other laws. I call Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige as a waitress for the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U180	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic brings before you a draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act and consequently amending other laws, which is not a comprehensive bill, but rather specifies several laws relating to the Order of the Defence Forces. There are some aspects that need to be clarified, and I will mention them immediately. Firstly, ordering the levels for establishing the structure of the Defence Forces. In short, the Defence Forces Organisation Act provides that all kinds of Defence Forces units, headquarters and structural units must be separately constituted by law. This is drastically different from the whole other structure of the Estonian state, where this type of reorganisation is made by decision of the Government of the Republic. Given that the Defence Forces are a constantly evolving structure and must meet the requirements of today, we also propose to make appropriate amendments to the Defence Forces Organisation Act, taking into account the competence as to whether this is a decision of the Government of the Republic or a decision of the Minister responsible for the field. When we talk about units, the decision is of course made by the Government of the Republic. Secondly, involvement of persons in the reserve in international military operations. Let it be explained here that Estonia has several different types of military operations. If we now want to use a member of the Defence Forces who is in reserve for the operation, the law in force requires us to take him into active service with all the resulting bureaucratic process and then release him from active service again. In our view, this is not feasible because it makes the process too complex. We propose in law to provide for the possibility that a member of the Defence Forces who is in reserve can participate here, and I would stress that we are talking about voluntary participation, of course, all our foreign missions are voluntary on an international mission. Let it also be said right now that if we look at our existing missions, it is quite possible that, for example, some peacekeeping missions, which are of low intensity and do not necessarily need the most professional part of our Defence Forces, we would be able to use the soldiers and officers who are in reserve, but certainly well trained, who may have been on international missions before. Thirdly, clarification of the restrictions in force on the territory of the Defence Forces. This is, in fact, a specific problem that needs to be resolved. In fact, as technology develops, more and more drones have appeared in the basement of the Defence Forces units and also in the training squares to film what is happening on these territories. If the territory itself is closed to strangers, everything that happens from the air is not regulated by law at this time. At the same time, it is never known whether the wishes of the filmers are malicious, whether it is done for intelligence purposes or simply for entertainment, since there are now also a lot of entertainment drones on the market. This bill establishes administrative responsibility and also misdemeanours for this type of activity, i.e. uncontrolled recording or photographing in the security area of the Defence Forces. A separate issue that has sometimes been asked about is the destruction of possible drones. This has also been discussed, but since it already requires amendments to several laws, such as the Air Services Act or the Radio Regulations Act, it is not yet ripe to bring it to the Riigikogu. The last important change is, you could say, human resources policy. As you know, very many members of the Defence Forces are employed in different representations of Estonia, either as a military attaché or at NATO headquarters. Although, for example, they are paid an external mission fee under the Civil Service Act, they still receive a basic salary under the Defence Forces Service Act. We propose that the whole system be brought under public service law. This makes it possible to check the grades, given that they correspond to those used by the rest of the agencies, civil authorities, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. An important addition is that the salary paid under the Civil Service Act is not taken into account in the payment of the active service pension, in the sense that the amount of the pension does not change as a result of the temporary civil service salary. That concludes my introductory speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U181	You have questions too. Please, Ants Laaneots!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U182	Thank you. We have a pretty large number of officers in the External Action Service, and I think their jurisdiction is a mess. Has it been corrected now, to whom they are ultimately subject, to the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or to certain officials of the Ministry of Defence? Is it regulated or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U183	It is regulated, but it is quite possible and even true that it still needs to be clarified. The current mechanism is that the Defence Forces will first be assigned to the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence will make a statement to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who will take him to the External Action Service and give him a foreign servant's passport. How exactly does the chain of command work? He is, of course, a representative of his status as Commander of the Defence Forces at the Mission or NATO. Normally, all these management issues have been resolved in a friendly spirit of cooperation, no problems have arisen, but if you ask whether this time it needs to be clarified that it is also unambiguously understood on paper, then I would say yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U184	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U185	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'm in a mood to cut red tape today. As your second amendment concerned sending people in reserve to international missions in connection with such a clumsy bureaucratic path of suffering, I ask you: have you analysed, there are some other bureaucratic problems in the ministry that you would like to come up with in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U186	As head of the ministry, of course, I would hate to say that we have very many unresolved bureaucratic problems. I have to admit that at this point in time I am not able to mention any subject, but I assure you that we are constantly coming before you with laws in which we have taken the principle of simplifying, ordering and reducing all kinds of bureaucratic procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U187	Johannes Kert.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question is that if we send reservists on missions, but don't take them into active service, what about these social guarantees? If a reservist is in reserve, he does not have any special social guarantees at the time he is in reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U189	Thank you. According to this bill, all social guarantees will be preserved. I am simply pointing out that in the case of the UNIFIL mission, it would be conceivable not to use the Scouts battalion but to use the units assembled from the soldiers and officers in the reserve. Here we see flexibility. All social guarantees, of course, also those concerning wounds and any subsequent compensations, will remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U190	Thank you very much, Minister. Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the lead committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good colleagues left in the hall, I should say. Before the first reading, the National Defence Committee discussed the draft with Chancellor Jonathan Vseviov of the Ministry of Defence and other officials of the Ministry at the meeting on 12 March. This draft will organise the structure of the Defence Forces and the levels at which it will be established in order to make the Defence Forces' activities more flexible and to allow for a faster response to new challenges or challenges. The structure of the Defence Forces, the names of the structural units and their functions will be set out at the level of the Basic Regulation, in the same way as other government bodies. Following the entry into force of the amendment, the duties, rights and obligations of the Defence Forces remain regulated at the level of the law. The current legal regulation does not allow for an operational and flexible change in the structure of the Defence Forces. The obligation of the government to establish the standard size, structure, sub-unit names, membership of the army and type of weapon, as well as division of the troops into permanent readiness units, rapid reaction units and main-ready units is also deleted from the Act. This will give the Commander of the Defence Forces greater leeway in organising the task of the army unit. It also excludes the titles of the commanders of the structural units of the Defence Forces from the Defence Forces Service Act and replaces them by a reference to the appointment of a government or minister responsible for the field. The law will deal only with the appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces. Under the proposed amendment to the Basic Regulation of the Defence Forces, no additional government-appointed posts will be created, but the government will be left with the possibility to foresee them if necessary. The Minister of Defence appoints Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, Chief of Staff of the Defence Forces, Commander of the Navy, Commander of the Air Force, Chief of the Special Operations Command, Chief of the Intelligence Centre and also Chief of the Support Command. The draft Statute for the Defence Forces, which is in the explanatory memorandum to the draft under discussion, provides for a new right for the Minister of Defence to appoint the Chief of the Cyber Command and also the Chief of the Military Police. The draft provides for the possibility of involving reserves in international military operations in order to increase the capabilities of the Defence Forces to respond more quickly to immediate threats. The draft also provides for misdemeanour penalties against the use of an unattended vehicle or drone without permission from the Defence Forces on the territory of the Defence Forces and against photographing or recording without prior authorisation. Objects of the Defence Forces where the recording or transmission of the image/image is prohibited are generally marked with a prohibited sign or are remembered when entering the object. The bill also amends the rules for sending an active officer on a long-term mission. Now to procedural decisions. At its meeting (consensus) on 12 March, the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu for the first reading, and to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft. I was appointed rapporteur on behalf of the Commission. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided at this session (also by consensus) to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the draft be fixed by the deadline for submitting amendments. a 4 April at 5.15 p.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U192	Thanks for the report. No questions for the waitress. I will open negotiations to the representatives of the political groups, if you would like. That's not what you want. The commission's proposal, as you have heard, is to conclude the first reading of draft 594. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 4 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U193	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft Penal Code Amendment Act 561 initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please present a speech chair for Riigikogu member Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U194	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, good colleagues. On 7 December last year, the Conservative People's Party Group initiated a draft law amending the Penal Code, which includes amendments to seven sections. There are two fundamental changes in substance. Firstly, to change the minimum age for sexual relations between minors and adults. If the current age limit is 14 years, the draft would be 16 years. For example, Paragraph 145 (1) would be amended precisely by setting that age limit. We also wish to amend paragraphs 1 and 11 of § 178 on the creation of pornographic and erotic works involving minors. Another substantive change is the level of penalties. For several crimes, the maximum penalty would be up to ten years of imprisonment, currently up to three years. The draft is driven by very sad statistics. Indeed, according to an analysis carried out by the Ministry of Justice, in 2016, 89% of all sexual offences were committed against minors. We are dealing with a problem that has still not been resolved. This bill, as it becomes a law, should be a small part of a larger solution scheme. This certainly is not enough and this work needs to be taken forward, but our group believes that this is an important issue which must also be addressed permanently in the large Chamber in order to do something about improving legislation. As regards finding support for the draft from ministries and other parliamentary groups, it has generally been adopted quite positively. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs has for years supported raising this age limit, and it has also been supported by the Alliance for Sexual Health. However, the prosecutor's office does not take a favourable view as they consider that increasing this penalty would not be proportionate to the penalties for other crimes. However, it has never been a secret that we believe that many of the penalties for very serious crimes are too lenient. Abuse of minors, or actual sexual exploitation of children, is a very serious crime that will ruin people's lives forever. It is therefore necessary to revise the maximum penalty rates and to amend the case law. The Ministry of Justice takes a favourable view in part. As far as raising age limits are concerned, no scientific study can prove which solution is optimal. In at least half of the European countries, this age limit is 16 or 15 years. Estonia is outnumbered by 14 years of age, or one of the most liberal. This is a social agreement on what borders we approve. And as it turned out at the two meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs where we dealt with this draft, the vast majority of the members of the committee admitted that 14 years are still a child's age, and certainly 14 years of age is not able to take responsibility for acts that can psychologically harm him for a very long time. This proposal was therefore quite positively adopted. After that, the rapporteur for the committee will come to the platform. I am very pleased that the draft was supported by the Commission and that it was proposed to close the first reading. I also said at the committee meeting that we are certainly open to discussing the improvement of this draft if anyone wants to find a compromise. We want to move on to this issue, in order to ensure better protection for children, particularly from paedophiles and other sex offenders. This is extremely important. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U195	That's good to hear. The Lord Black asks the first question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is not specifically about this draft law, but about a bit more broadly. In fact, I have heard from IT specialists, as well as from teachers, that in our innovative times, pornography is increasingly moving to the Internet and the time that, according to surveys, students need to learn about the world's nature and history, etc., was actually to be used to tracking Internet flows, including viewing pictures of naked girls and so on. Do you have any information or opinions on the extent to which this could be a problem that the legislator could address?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U197	I personally think that the legislator has two very big problems to deal with. One is that of Internet forums, social media, where very extensive exploitation and attraction is possible. Its verification is extremely costly and the question of resource is immediately raised by the extension of this investigation. Right now, the Police and Border Guard Board is in a lot of trouble. If five detectives are involved, maybe 15 cases will come up, you put ten detectives to work, 30 cases will come up. And if you apply 20 detectives already, there will be 100 cases. This is a very wide-ranging problem and no one knows how many of these criminals are and how many exploitations are actually taking place. The more resources available to the police and the office dealing with sexual crimes, the more these things come out. One problem, then, is the lack of money, which has been a matter of great concern. Another problem is the sexual association between minors, which Estonian laws do not deal with at all. This, in my opinion, is a very serious deficit. At present, it is perfectly correct in law, for example, if a 17-year-old who will be 18 in three days' time has intercourse or any other sexual contact with a 10-year-old child. The law doesn't deal with it. Everything is perfectly correct. Only if you're under 10 years old, there's gonna be a paragraph. But obviously we all realize that a 10-year-old is in no way comparable to a 17-year-old, or almost adult. This problem has been overlooked by the legislator for some reason and has not been dealt with either by the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Justice. I think that a step in this regard should be a follow-up to the draft that we are discussing here today. These questions should be addressed in terms of resources and relations between minors.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U198	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U199	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, When we submitted this bill, the media ran charges that the EKRE would climb under the blanket and want to regulate and control the sexual life of young people. How can such absurdities be qualified? Is it certain political jealousy that we have taken such a sensitive subject to legislative regulation, or is it a matter of vandalism, of paedophiles, well-hidden and even better organised lobby?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U200	Thank you. In particular, our draft was subjected to a very strong attack in one of the longer Postimees articles. Reporter Tiina Kaukvere called me and asked for a comment on this subject. I explained one thing three times, he still didn't understand. I fear that this Postman article was not a conspiracy or organized counter-action, but rather a human folly. If a person simply refuses to understand the fact that a 14-year-old is in no way able to understand the relationship with a 40-year-old, then there is nothing to do. This bill says very specifically: if a child is under 16 years of age, his or her sexual relations with an adult over 21 years of age are not acceptable by law. If the other party is under 21, everything will remain the same, nothing new will come. We don't get into somebody's private life, a 15-to-16-year-old novel where butterflies fly in their stomachs and they go out for coffee together, and they keep drinking their coffee tonight. It's none of our business, and we don't care. We are talking about genuine perverts who basically abuse children. This was a very regrettable article, which simply refused to accept facts, refusing to mention statistics on sexual offences against minors. It was therefore completely incomprehensible. As far as this attitude is concerned, of course there are also opposing politicians, not perhaps entire political parties. Maybe I'll just bring out an IRL whose members are unfortunately not one in this Chamber today. However, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the representative of the IRL voted against this draft because he felt that we should come out with a full set: we should draw up a comprehensive package on how to deal with sexual crimes against minors. There are educational programmes in schools, teachers do information work, the police should have more resources at their disposal, changes should be made to the Penal Code and family law, etc. The representative of the IRL thought we should do all this work for the Justice Department. Well, I certainly don't approve. I think we're trying to put an end to a fire that's long since broken out for work done at the Ministry of Justice, which is known to be run by the IRL. This is a party that has basically begun an attack on this bill. At the same time, I must compliment the MPs on the socialist ranks: they understood very well the nature of the problem and agree to proceed with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U201	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the draft is to tighten up the penalties for sexual offences against minors. Perhaps you can explain in a few words what our current penal policy is. Is that enough and thought through? And perhaps you can give some examples of the penalties still applied to juvenile delinquency.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U203	Thank you, good questioner! It has been common case law in Estonia that there has been a great deal of these cases of crime, for which § 178 (1) applies, which deals with pornographic images, videos and other works taken with children under 18 years of age, the ordinary sentence is conditional imprisonment, i.e. there has been no real imprisonment. Fortunately, too, we all know that thanks to the media, they have come to the public with a great many recent cases, in which individuals who have been repeatedly punished for the same act have been released after a few years, once again on parole. The average penalty rate for sexual crimes committed against minors is about one and a half years of probation, which is a shamefully short time. And when we see that this percentage is still so high 89% of all sexual offences are specifically sexual crimes against minors, it must be concluded that this penal policy has not worked. We are dealing with people who are simply unable to take account of the sentence they are sentenced to, and they continue in the same way with or after the sentence on parole. These people must be isolated from society for as long as possible so that they cannot simply harass new children. Any such action can ruin the life of one person forever. I think that the legislator has a very important role to play here, because it can also target the levels of punishment. We have a precedent in this regard since last year: the Riigikogu approved the amendment of the Penal Code in such a way that repeatedly the minimum penalty for drunken management is 30 days of shocking. Before the courts imposed fines or parole for this. Now, if you're repeatedly caught driving with at least a 1.5-million booze, or you're a potential killer, you're not gonna get out of prison for less than 30 days. I think that the sexual abuse of minors is not a crime of any lesser weight than is a criminally intoxicated driving. Both are serious crimes. With one, you can kill someone, drive them to death, and with another, you'll ruin a person's life forever. I therefore think that perhaps this bill should even be supplemented. We mostly look at the maximum penalty rates, but we should also review the minimum rates below which a judge cannot impose a penalty for certain crimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U204	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I fully understand that this bill is targeted at paedophiles, and I would sign a two-handed bill that would allow the forced chemical castration of paedophiles. But this is where the sight and focus go off a little bit. While you confirmed that the goal is not to interfere with young people's sexual life and climb under their blankets, the age of a person is, in some ways, just a number on paper. Young ones are becoming mature in the past, and are we not also undermining their voluntary sexual relations? Okay, I'm going to the extreme: what happens when a teacher gets caught playing doctor in kindergarten? What is our practice and that of other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U206	Thank you, good questioner! I'm gonna start by answering the first marked subject. As far as castration is concerned, we also discussed this issue with representatives of the Ministry of Justice. There are countries that have legalised it. I think this is definitely a solution. I have no facts on this, but according to the Justice Department, castration has not reduced the number of sexual crimes. Pedophiles are generally more a problem upstairs than a problem downstairs. Downstairs, they can cause a lot of damage because the top floor says so. But a person has not only lower floors but also hands that can do a lot of harm to children. Chemical castration is one of the penalties in certain countries, but it has not reduced the problem as these people continue to commit crimes simply using other parts of the body. Psychologically, however, this is a very severe deviation, a disease, and unfortunately castration does not put the mind in place. But that could be one thing to discuss. With regard to statistics and examples from other countries, our solution is to set a two-step age limit of 16 and 14 depending on whether the other side is more than 21 or less, the exact same regulation is in German legislation. And in most countries, rather than most, many countries in the European Union have an age gap rate. In Italy, for example, the age difference between minors may not exceed three years, i.e. if one party is, for example, 15 years old, the other party may not be more than 18 years old. Up to three years are acceptable. I think that for this draft, the question of which way to go is the choice. We have taken the example of a German law whose regulation has been transposed into one of our draft laws. At the same time, the solution may also be that we are introducing an paragraph similar to that of Italy, for example, with a maximum age difference of three years. As far as interference with private life is concerned, the legislator's aim must always be to direct a process in society. There are certainly minors, such as 17-year-olds, who are much more advanced and responsible than some 20-year-olds, but 20-year-olds can buy alcohol and drink coma, 17-year-olds can't buy alcohol, although they can be more mature. But some boundaries need to be set. You can't go to the casino when you're under 21, but a 14-year-old can actually sleep with a 45-year-old and society approves it through the legislator. That's the question of options. I think it is our duty to give a signal that it is not acceptable. A 14-year-old should still be in eighth grade, going to practice and not dealing with things that are too early for. And we're not gonna ruin his chances of dating a 15 or a 16-year-old. That's not the law. At the same time, I am very doubtful as to whether a 14-year-old could develop a serious relationship with a 22-year-old. In that case, however, it is not a romantic love story like the Hollywood movies, but in my opinion it would be perversion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U207	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U208	Thank you. Good waitress! It is a very sympathetic attempt for me to protect people under the age of 16 from sexual exploitation. In this connection, I have the question why you did not decide to raise the border to 16 years of age. And can we do that in the future? We have a minimum right to vote in 16 years of age and maybe from that age we can make decisions about our body. Why don't we just leave this 14-year-old person out of the picture and legally enter sexual relations from the age of 16? Wouldn't that be a better way to protect young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U209	Thank you, good questioner! That is the social agreement that is enshrined in the law. We've come up with one alternative. After all, there are many age limits that apply to relations between two people. If we take § 3 of the Family Act.. if I remember correctly now, then under this provision, you can get married from the age of 15. Therefore, if our draft also finds support in the final phase, after the third reading, then we also need to amend the family law in order to harmonise the regulations. One option is to raise this entire border to 16 years of age. Personally, I wouldn't object, but I also consulted staff in this area from the Police and Border Guard Board, who deal with sexual crimes every day. Their opinion was that it is more reasonable to provide for a two-step distinction in order to avoid situations where a 15-year-old dating a 18-year-old young man or a young woman and then the mother or father of this 15-year-old youth goes to the police to make a statement that you see that there is currently a criminal offence here, although in fact exploitation, i.e. the crime, has not taken place. This is the bloom of the spring of life of two young people, to say the least. This is not a crime. We do not want to create such an absurd situation in legislation by starting to screw over. That is why many countries have chosen this two-step system to create this buffer. Often, 15 and 18 years old are on the same level from their mental and psychological development, and there is no difference. And there is no point in allocating additional resources to police and investigators so that they can investigate some crime that has not really happened. We are using resources somewhere else, for example, to explore what is happening in social forums where actual exploitation takes place. Therefore, in our opinion, a 'two-step' solution with two established age limits is a little more reasonable. But I repeat, this is a question of choices just because there is no one who would say what is optimal, this is the most accurate age limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U210	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U211	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In squirrels, badgers and moose, sex begins at the same time in Latvia, Finland and Estonia. Please explain to me why there is an anomaly for people in Estonia. Here the legislator allows for sexual intercourse at 14 years of age, but in Latvia, Lithuania and Finland several years later. What's the origin of the anomaly?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U212	Thank you, good questioner! I guess this anomaly is due to the fact that MEPs are very different in three countries and their voters are very different. And the organisation of society is also a little different. Similarly, we are different from Sweden, for example. Fortunately, we are different and there are also different age limits. Iceland has 15 years, for example, if I remember correctly, a few years ago this border was lowered from 16 to 15 years. That too was the question of a social agreement. They thought there was no problem with these crimes, no problem with the exploitation of minors, and the law was relaxed. In our case, the situation is quite different. Everything, our entire social order, our historical background, our legislative orientation, the management of processes will play a role here. Why Latvia and Lithuania have gone the hard way, the more conservative way, I cannot answer because I am not a member of the Latvian Parliament or of the Lithuanian Parliament. But I think it would certainly be interesting to discuss this with my colleagues from the South. Things are very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U213	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U214	Good waitress! You said your age was one of the alternatives. Can you explain the concept of an alternative? Does this mean that we can discuss this age here, or do you really think that if you have said something, everyone has to agree to a priori? So who isn't on your side is all against you, and we can read from the news of various publications how narrow-minded or stupid we are that we don't agree with it. How much is open debate about this age? You yourself mentioned that this is the alternative you proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U215	Thank you, Honourable Asker. According to the Estonian lyrics dictionary, the word 'alternative' means different options. Due to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, after the first reading, all Members can submit amendments to the draft, which will be discussed before the second reading in this large Chamber. We are certainly very open to all the amendments. The alternative means that we can set a limit of 16 years in all cases, i.e. without exceptions, we can put 15 or 17 or 18 in the law. But when it comes to other comments and yesterday's news, it is not the same as the foolishness of society in general, nor is it a secret in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U216	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I could have heard you mention it in one of your sentences, but it sounded something like this, that the paedophile penalties in Estonia are lenient and that they are released all too easily. When you met with the specialists at the Police and Border Guard Board, did you come up with a question, why is that? And here's another question: in the light of this same bill, can we also discuss the tightening of penalties? It is still a question of thinking: on the one hand, the paedophile is a person who must be punished, on the other hand, we are bouncing against another view that, oh, he is a victim himself, and we must treat him as a ninnu-nänne.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U217	Madis Milling, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U218	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Before I said that, in fact, this draft is already about tightening up the penalties. According to the draft, § 179 (1) states that the transfer, display or otherwise knowingly made available to a person under 16 years of age of a pornographic work or reproduction of a pornographic work, or the sexual abuse of such a person, or in the sight of such a person, shall be punishable by a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to 10 years. So far, it's up to three years. If there are repeated acts under the same paragraph, then up to ten years of imprisonment can be imposed, according to our bill, up to 15 years. The aim of the draft is precisely to increase the age limits, but also to tighten up the penalties. However, as I said before, an increase in the minimum levels of penalties should also be considered. We have not gone this way now, as we know, one step at a time is being taken, but I think this is the right place to launch a debate on this issue. This could even be the content of one amendment. So, indeed, an increase in the minimum levels of penalties could also be considered. If a person repeatedly commits a crime covered by § 179 (1) which, for example, includes sexual intercourse at the age of 16, according to the current law, the minimum penalty is one year in prison. I am not very convinced that this is enough, one could consider a minimum of three years. If a person continues to commit crimes for which he or she has been convicted, if he or she has not changed his or her behaviour and still commits sexual crimes against minors, then therefore his or her isolation from society has not been sufficient, it could be longer. This could be one option. If we have opened the door by raising the age limits and tightening up the maximum penalty rates, then we could then move forward and raise the minimum penalties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U219	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Liisa Oviir, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U220	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft law amending the Penal Code at 561 two sessions, including 8 February and 12 March. Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Helmut Hallemaa, Raivo Aeg, Taavi Rõivas, Toomas Paur, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere took part in the first meeting. In addition, Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Penal Law and Procedure Department of the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, Lavly Perling, Attorney General of the State, Jaak Madison, Judge at the Tartu Circuit Court, Juhan Sarv, and Reimo Raivet, Police and Border Guard Board, were invited. First of all, Riigikogu member Jaak Madison made an overview of the draft, stating that the draft was initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia on 7 December 2017. At present, according to the Penal Code, the age limit for sexual self-determination in Estonia is 14 years, which means that the sexual intercourse of an adult with a child younger than 14 years of age is, in any case, a punishment for sexual crime for an adult. However, according to the draft proposed by the EKRE, there would be a two-step age limit, which means that a person at least 21 years of age should not have intercourse with a person under the age of 16 or engage in any other act of sexual nature. In the case of persons under 21 years of age, everything will remain the way that the law currently provides. The aim of the amendment is to improve the protection of children under 16 years of age from sexual offences. According to Jaak Madison, there is no single analysis or evidence to indicate which specific age is optimal for sexual self-defence. This is a social agreement and Estonia has been one of the most liberal countries on the age line of sexual self-determination. The report prepared by the Ministry of Justice in 2011 shows that this age line varies considerably from country to country. If it is punishable in Estonia to satisfy sexual intercourse, sexual passion of adult age with younger than 14 years of age, then in the European Union this limit is between 13 and 18 years, with an average of 15 years. Most of Estonia's neighbouring countries have been provided for 15 or 16 years. Exactly the same levels of the age limit for sexual self-determination as in the draft German Penal Code, but these levels also apply in Austria and Italy. Secondly, there are proposals in the draft for increasing the levels of sanctions. There is a proposal to increase the penalty rates up to now, instead of three years in prison, up to ten years, but up to 15 years for repeated crimes. Both the Ministry of Justice and the prosecutor's office considered that the increase in the penalty rates proposed in the draft is not proportionate to the severity of the acts and does not correspond to the general logic of the Penal Code. The penalty rate proposed in the draft for committing such a repeated crime is the same as that proposed for killing. Jaak Madison admitted that this is really disproportionate, but the aim of the EKRE is to open a greater debate on the proportionality of the penal policy under the influence of this draft and whether there could be any progress towards tightening sanctions at all. According to Jaak Madison, the maximum penalty for rape is five years in prison and qualifies as a second-degree crime, a precedent throughout Europe. Estonia is one of the most liberal countries in terms of this penalty rate, and it certainly cannot be satisfied with that. Lavly Perling found it positive that someone has raised the spotlight on this subject and is working on it, but the prosecutor's office does not support the increase in age limits, as in practice there are less problems with teenagers than with children aged 5 to 9 years. More serious sexual crimes are committed against young children like this. At the same time, he pointed out that there was no doubt that there was a need for protection at the age of 14 to 15, but more to appeal to the terms 'influence' and 'trust'. Sexual relations, which are not based on love and social agreements, but on child abuse, have been criminalised even now until the age of 18 years and are, according to him, sufficient. Tanel Kalmet also commended the debate for raising it, but said that a concrete proposal to raise the age line on sexual self-determination would give rise to many contradictions, which is why the Ministry of Justice does not support it. Nor does the Ministry of Justice support the tightening of sanctions. At the same time, Tanel Kalmet promised that in the near future there would be legislative changes that would provide for more severe sanctions for dangerous tendency criminals who committed repeated sexual offences. The chairman of the committee, Jaanus Karilaid, summarised the debate and proposed that this discussion be extended and that representatives of the interested parties concerned be invited to the next meeting of the committee on the subject to continue the debate. The members of the Commission agreed unanimously on this. The next time, as has been said, we discussed the draft on 12 March. Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Liisa Oviir, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere took part in the meeting as members of the Commission. Jaak Madison, Member of the Riigikogu, Attorney General Lavly Perling, Ursula Kimmel from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Anne Kruusement from the Ministry of Justice and Tuuli Lepp, Kai Haldre from the Estonian Sexual Health Association, Joanna Karu from the Ministry of Social Affairs, Reimo Raivet from the Police and Border Guard Board and Helika Saar from the Children's Protection Association were also invited as initiators. To begin with, Jaak Madison revisited the draft proposal to improve the protection of minors against sexual abuse. In his opinion, Estonia should not be so liberal about the age of sexual self-determination, nor should penalties be tightened up for these offences. Lavly Perling pointed out that the law protects children from relations based on false grounds until they reach the age of 18; in her opinion, the problem is more about applying the law. If we want to actually pay attention to each minor, it takes time, and it is also important to have staffing and legal flexibility. According to Lavly Perlinging, the penalty rates proposed in the draft are not proportionate to others and, as a result, the prosecutor's office cannot only support the tightening of penalties for one type of crime. To this end, the entire Penal Code should be reviewed. It also considered that measures of penal law should be more geared towards changing behaviour. Joanna Karu, Ministry of Social Affairs, reported that the Ministry of Social Affairs supports the raising of the age limit for sexual self-determination and considers that the minimum age limit could be universally 15 years instead of 14 years, regardless of the age of the partner. The Ministry of Social Affairs did not assess the penalty rates. Anne Kruusement, representative of the Ministry of Justice, stated that the Ministry of Justice does not support this draft as proposed. They have analysed the age line of sexual self-determination and are prepared to participate in this discussion, but the increase in penalty rates proposed by the Ministry is not supported. Ursula Kimmel of the Ministry of the Interior thought that there had been little discussion about raising the age line. He agreed that more experts should be involved in the debate. The increase in the age limit proposed in the draft of the Ministry of the Interior is not supported, and certainly the Ministry does not support the increase in penalty rates, as the draft provides for. Reimo Raivet, representative of the Police and Border Guard Board, was also of the opinion that an in-depth analysis should be carried out before increasing the age limit, involving specialists who would be able to make their assessment. Reimo Raivet also considered the penalty rates proposed in the draft as disproportionate and also confusing. Kai Haldre announced that the Alliance for Sexual Health supports the raising of the age line. As regards the penalty rates, he considered that the necessity of the sentence was more important than the length of the sentence. He also considered changes in the education system and the availability of various services to be very important. The representative of the Child Welfare Association, Helika Saar, announced that the Child Welfare Association supports raising the age limit to 15 years. He pointed out that family law gives a young person aged 15 a chance to get married with the permission of the court. He stressed that child sexual abuse was a serious violation of children's fundamental rights and it was important that the state dealt with this issue in a comprehensive manner. It is not just criminal policy decisions; rather, it is values decisions, which require a much wider discussion. Sexual maturity and age-appropriate behaviour are not only fostered by raising the age limit in the Penal Code; it is also important to have a wide range of sexual education. Helika Saar also pointed out that attention should also be paid to children with disabilities and in substitution care. There is currently no sexual development programme for girls with disabilities and the problem with substitution care is that replacement homes do not see their role in family education. Lavly Perling also mentioned that raising the age limit alone does not solve the problem, the issue is the capacity of the procedure. The more detectives there are, the more real crimes are detected. Kai Haldre pointed out that in several countries there was a special programme for young criminals, which Jaak Madison said was primarily about opening the discussion. The view that all problems are solved in a single draft has often remained. He doesn't think that's possible. He pointed out that this draft does not interfere in the field of work of the Ministry of Education and Research, for example, but it draws attention to nuances that must lead to the resolution of the following issues. The fact that some of the proposed penalty rates would lead to the imbalance of the overall system demonstrates the need for new discussions. Jaak Madison also noted that such crimes are often committed by persons who do so repeatedly. He thinks it's the sick that need to be separated from society. The easiest way to do this is to be imprisoned, and this bill wants to give the court a chance to make a longer sentence. Valdo Randpere raised the issue of chemical castration, which Lavly Perling said that psychiatrists believe that chemical castration is not effective enough, as treatment can only be effective if a person wishes to treat himself. He added that a pilot project was launched in Viljandi, including those who have not been found guilty but wish to be cured. Anne Kruusement noted that chemical castration has been used little in Estonia. This can only be implemented under the current law in two years' imprisonment, not for more serious sexual crimes. The Ministry has a desire to amend this section and the draft has already passed the round of coordination. Jaanus Karilaid said that although the draft in question had not been supported by the Supreme Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office or the ministries, he suggested that the Commission support the draft, but agreed that it needed to be amended to a large extent. However, the fact that ministries have not proposed better, operational solutions over the years shows a weakness at the political level. Mr Aeg pointed out that all parties considered that this bill did not solve any problems. He was of the opinion that if this fundamental problem were to be resolved, the draft would have to be thoroughly prepared. In Aeg's view, it is unconstructive to leave this draft in the process. He proposed that the initiator take it back and propose a new, more complex solution. On this point, Jaak Madison said it would be hypocritical to assume that the opposition party would be able to put forward a comprehensive package. Finally, the Commission took procedural decisions. The consensus decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today and to propose that the deadline for amendments be 5 April and that Ms Oviir be appointed rapporteur. With a majority of 5: 2 it was proposed to close the first reading. By Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Liisa Oviir and Urve Tiidus and against Raivo Aeg and Valdo Randpere. There were no abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U221	Thank you very much for your thorough presentation. You have questions too. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, I want to correct the two mistakes that I think passed the previous speaker's report. Firstly, that someone very much praised Lithuania, that although Lithuania has a high minimum age for sexual relations. In Lithuania, it is exactly the same as in Estonia today: 14 years. So there's no point in praising Lithuania. And then Sweden was cursed, for God's sake, we don't want to be like Sweden. In Sweden, this minimum age is 15 years, which is higher than in Estonia. Worse still, this minimum age has been in place in Sweden for girls since 1864. Remember that! But I have a question: what do you think this minimum age should change? How high could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U223	I am here as a Commission waitress in the remote, so I do not think it is appropriate for me to say a personal position.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U224	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U225	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I had the impression from your presentation that all those parties who participated in the committee meeting who were actually in contact with children and young people, with their protection, with the sexual health of young people, etc., were in favour of this draft and were skeptical or hostilely minded by representatives of bureaucratic organisations. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U226	As my presentation was quite long, I would rather conclude that there was quite a consensus that this age line should be raised and, rather consensually, the proposal to increase penalty rates was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U227	Jaak Madison, please, your turn!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U228	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! If Valdo Randpere's made a false claim here, I'm gonna take care of his false claims. Lithuania was not praised by the previous speaker at all. And when it comes to giving an example of Sweden, it was meant to be a general development of society towards some country. In general terms, Sweden is certainly not the country that should set a great example for us. In terms of legislation, Germany has set an example for us and we have drawn up this draft in accordance with their law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U229	That wasn't a question, was it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U230	It really didn't seem like there was a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-03-21_U231	Got it. Good waitress, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Thank you. Now it's time for a negotiation. All political groups have the opportunity to say what they think about this draft. Please! There is no desire to do so, and so we can take on the proposal of the commission. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 561 be completed. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 561 amendments at 16 a.m. on 5 April. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been no more agenda for us today. Thank you for your effort. There'll be new winds tomorrow. Good night. [[A little applause.]] Closure of the sitting at 5.01 p.m.
