ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 38 members of the Riigikogu registered for Question Time. Members of the Government Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser, good afternoon! I am giving the opportunity to ask a further question because there were so many wishers yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U2	The first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and the first questioner Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! We have received news of the mysterious rise in the price of building the eastern border of Estonia. My first question is what are the main cost lines for this so-called increased amount. What could it be, deforestation, road construction, or some kind of garden or technology? Could you tell us about the main cost lines?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for this question in this honourable Question Time. I'm sure that's a very legitimate question. I think that the information that came to the Estonian public, but also to the members of the Riigikogu and the government, was unexpected because it was known from February 2015, 26 February in particular, that the estimated amount was 79 million euros. Despite the information that, based on the design data, the construction of the border will be 2.5 to 3 times more expensive, it certainly does not mean that the construction of the eastern border will stop. That's not gonna happen. I certainly do not think that something drastic should happen again, just as the difficult events happened in September 2014 before we go on with the construction of the border. Anyway, I think it's the right thing to do. In answer to your question, I will say so much that the total length of the border is 338 kilometres, the land border is 135, the lake border is 126 and the river border is 76 kilometres. According to current data, it can be said that it would be more expensive to build a land border, which was even the longest mileage, 135. The difference between these estimates, which were in February 2015 and now, is the circum of 100 million. The river border was originally planned at EUR 11 million, but the real need is 25 million, so it has increased to around 14 million. It must also be said that this is a design phase. If there's a deal, the price could change.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U5	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U6	Thank you. Yeah, no doubt, we're all thinking that the border has to be constructed. Rather, the question is how, in the 27th year of independence, we can still live without a border. Actually, we're talking about a control line in this situation. But still, you didn't get the numbers. So what kind of work do you find most expensive? Building roads, building a garden or putting electronics on it? We all understand that sometimes the estimated cost can change during construction, and usually higher. But the magnitude by which it's now changed is mystical. If we asked the simplest construction or road companies what their usual prices are, the price of border construction is sci-fi compared to conventional works. What are these basic cost categories?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U7	Thank you. I fully agree with what you said in the introduction to your question, that we do not have a proper border, of course, is a disgrace. And as I said in answering the first question, it should not be that something drastic happens before we even start building the border. Specifically, as far as I have the information right now, it became more expensive, as I said, mostly the construction of the land and river borders. For example, in the case of expensive infrastructure, there is a need for a circuit of EUR 40 million. A further 37 million will be needed for the technical monitoring and surveillance system, with an additional EUR 15 to 20 million needed for low-flight security. The question has also been raised that access routes are too few planned and need more, several dozen times more. It's gotten more expensive. I investigated it and found out that when the office made its initial decision on 26 February 2015, it was barely a month and a half to carry out the price calculation. It has to be acknowledged that during the winter period, the Estonian border, say, the natural community and the ground that is there were not well known. It is safe to say now that this is a very heavily swamped area, which has raised the cost of building the border and has raised the issue of draining rainwater, for example. I think the decision was made in February 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U8	Andres Herkel, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U9	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! Just because it's a swampy area can't be news. These differences in numbers are still so great. But a few weeks before it came to light that building up the border would be much more expensive, there was news that there was also a plan to buy out an additional border strip within 10 metres, that is, to expand it. It was all the more strange that one of the owners' buy-out processes, which wasn't at all easy, had just ended and the whole thing was already going through. Then it turned out that something had been miscalculated, another 10 meters had to be bought out, and the whole process had to start again. How do you explain such misplanning in both financial and spatial terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U10	Thank you. I could exclaim, like you, in principle, in your question, that come, in heaven, to help, how was it not known that this circle of 135 kilometres, which is a land border area, is mostly swampy? But you see, obviously, on 26 February 2015, there was no such information. It has to be said that there was no information on this or that it could not be asked in the right place at the time. Yes, I also know that, within the framework of the design of the border building, given the natural part of the border and also the inflection of the border, the PBP has stated that the border area needs to be extended by 10 metres and this will definitely require the resolution of a very large number of land issues. As I said, the circa 100 million will increase in the construction of the land border, including the current estimate of around EUR 7 to 8 million for land or land issues. So all of this has come in the design process and with the wisdom of the three years when the state has prepared a) for the complete construction of the border; b) for the testing areas in which the state has built the border as it should in the future operate to the fullest extent. It has been said that 10 meters, or a few more meters, must be extended to the border area. Of course, that means extra expenses. I wouldn't be in such a hurry to say that the PBA has made some kind of miscalculation. To make a full assessment of how much the whole border construction costs in the winter of one and a half months and bring it to the level of the government, who has to make a decision on this basis, it seems to me that it was a bit hasty.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U12	Artur Talvik's question to the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U13	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! The week before last, there was a statement of your mistrust. In a sense, the Free Party called it the Life Work Prize. However, not a day went by when another problem came up, if you could say so, on the issue of legal aid. How does the Minister of Justice still happen to have a row of failures?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U14	Thank you. Last year, an amendment came into force which provides for the basis for the payment of the free legal advice allowance. The Ministry of Justice is the organiser of this general legal advice project. Within this project, 5179 persons living in Estonia have received legal aid in 2017, with a total of 8000 hours. People will be able to obtain legal aid when meeting with a lawyer in person in Tallinn, Tartu, Narva, Pärnu, Rakvere, Jõgeva, Kuressaare, Paides, Valgas, Jõhvi, Haapsalu, Kärdlas, Põlva, Viljandi Court and Võru Court. In addition, assistance will be provided online, in which case there will be five days to reply to requests. You can also ask for information by telephone, then you will be referred to the authorities that should solve legal problems. The Ministry of Justice followed very clearly all objective legal requirements for this project. The contest participant, who did not win, challenged it in court. We also have a court settlement which proves that the competition was organised lawfully. The Ministry of Justice pays the winning law firm back, i.e. not in advance, and also makes random inquiries, including on the quality of legal assistance and people's satisfaction. Satisfaction index is close to 90%.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U15	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U16	This was now a nice review, but it is still astonishing that one case or one legal assistant company, whose owner belongs to the IRL and is known as the bankruptcy master, who challenges the court, I don't know, all kinds of things, even though he has never done legal aid before. How do you justify the action of such a winner, or how do you justify why such a character is providing legal aid there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U17	Thank you. The winner of the competition was specifically awarded to two legal agencies according to very specific criteria • the hourly rate of legal advice, the amount of the telephone instruction allowance, the amount of support for managing websites, the total number of legal advice hours during the meeting and the scope of the information work on legal advice organised. Two legal offices made a combined bid, one of which had been active and registered for more than ten years. When it comes to the background of the shareholder of one of the tenderers, there were indeed specific formal requirements to which the competition winner's offices replied. It was also examined whether offices were subject to winding-up or bankruptcy proceedings or whether there were other restrictions. The condition was that there should be qualified lawyers at work, with sufficient experience. Prior to the conclusion of the contract, they were contacted to confirm that a circle of persons existed. The specific shareholder himself does not directly engage in legal advice. As far as his background is concerned, it is undoubtedly regrettable if there is such a dispute around a person. But the fact is that, on my inquiry whether the civil court has applied restrictions on economic activity to him and whether criminal proceedings are ongoing or closed, the answer came in the negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! The current government stands out very clearly in favour of its own. What you have just commented on is quite regrettable. What is the reputation of a country if one of the partners in the country is clearly linked to some tax distinctions and disputes, not to transparent business? Is it true what ran through the press that they do not have enough contractual lawyers, partners, and the labour taxes they pay are so sluggishly low that it does not give rise to the impression that it is a fair, clear and transparent business?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U20	Thank you. Juristtaitab.ee's website allows you to see that 23 experts provide legal advice in total. The two main legal agencies that won this procurement have also involved other agencies from different regions to offer free legal advice. It is clear that some people do this work alongside other activities, not as a main job, or as a source of sustainable income. But as I said, the Ministry has rigorously checked whether the circle of persons and disbursements correspond to reality. I have asked the Ministry to review the need for additional measures during its internal audit. The question whether there is a need to apply to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board for further verification must be assessed from this point of view. If there's a need, we'll definitely do it. However, I would like to emphasise once again: the competition was conducted on the basis of objective criteria. The hourly prices were such that two of these offers were declared winners.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U22	Now Kalle Laanet's question to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U23	Thank you, good Chairman. Since you came up in the Forum yesterday with a call that politicians should be as gentle as possible until 1 March, not getting very sharp, I will try to ask very mildly. It's the same subject Arthur Talvik started with. How does the Ministry of Justice examine the background of the other party before concluding the contract, and what criteria must the legal person's representative meet? If the Civil Service Act requires an official to have very moral qualities, what is the position of the Ministry of Justice regarding the characteristics of a legal person governed by private law? Could they be like God's guidance, or could they still look at the substance of the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U24	First of all, thank you for the gentleness! However, what I wanted to say is that the prerequisites for qualifying in a competition are the following: submission of a deadline, registration in the Estonian register, submission of the information requested in the application, qualification of legal advisers and sufficient experience. The applicant shall not be subject to winding-up or bankruptcy proceedings as of the date of the application, i.e. it shall not be bankrupt, and shall provide confirmation of the existence of such customer management software. The public service certainly places a whole host of higher requirements on the person. In this case, I would point out that a specific shareholder of a company that has won a bid is a civil law relationship, which provides one particular service with a number of formal requirements. The Ministry has announced a competition and has declared one tenderer winner on the basis of objective circumstances and properly. That is the way to deal with it. This private service provider is in no way a specific acknowledgement or tribute to a special privileged person.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U25	Kalle Laane, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U26	Thank you. I understand that this is not really a tribute, but for some reason it still seems like a bow to a member of his party. Still, the background. If a person has challenged all 44 actions, if he has already owed nearly EUR 5 million to his contractual partners, but now the Ministry of Justice is proving to be a contractual partner in the provision of free legal aid, how does this affect the reputation of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U27	Thank you. It is certainly the duty of the Ministry of Justice to ensure that the public funding for the provision of a particular service is appropriate for the intended purpose. On that, once again, we will carry out a follow-up. The monthly allowance shall be paid after the specific service has been provided. If there are any grounds for doing so, such as significant violations in the performance of the contract, then the Ministry of Justice will certainly consider it and, in that case, terminate the contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U28	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U29	Thank you. Good minister! Continuing on the same subject, how do you, as Minister of Justice, appreciate that the wages of those people who offer legal aid there were in hundreds of euros? At least this is the case when the exact figures are taken from the extracts of the tax office, the annual accounts or wherever they are. How do you feel that it is possible to provide high-quality legal assistance for people who receive 500-600 euros in monthly pay? As Minister of Justice, how do you look at this quality of legal aid? You say that the satisfaction index is nearly 90%, but still, would you be willing to go to these lawyers for legal advice? In particular, please respond to how you assess as a lawyer whether this salary, at least what the number of people you claim that is not real is adequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U30	Thank you. Since the implementation of this legal aid service was as I described earlier, several hundred more people are needed each week, as society becomes more aware of the existence of this service, these persons were, of course, not used as permanent counsellors. This transition phase, I imagine, was like this. That is the explanation that was presented to me when I pointed it out. As I emphasised, I have also asked the Ministry's internal audit to assess the facts that have been addressed to the public and, if necessary, to draw the attention of the Tax and Customs Board. Certainly, the state institution has a duty of due diligence, and I think it makes perfect sense. As far as the level of legal aid is concerned now, yes, on average the hourly cost of the lawyer service is EUR 130 plus VAT. For this legal advice, the state pays EUR 33 for one hour of counselling, excluding VAT. The principle is that the first two hours are free of charge and the own contribution rate, self-financing rate, will also apply for the next few hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U32	Arno Bridge, question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We know that the European Union has allocated some sums to compensate for farmers' losses in some countries, including Estonia, as far as I know, this amount was EUR 1200000. At the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs, however, the representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs could not answer the question as to whether, according to the rules, the Government of the Republic could add the same amount to it. Is it separated or not? Has it now become clear what it's like?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U34	Thank you very much for this question. Indeed, due to the exceptional weather conditions during the harvest period of the previous year, the Baltic States and Finland, in the autumn, approached the European Commission, as you have even mentioned, for emergency support. I too made a personal petition and supported this appeal. In Estonia last year, due to unfavourable weather conditions, 15% of arable land was not harvested, most currently evaluated as field beans, 69% of soil, 55% of peas, 27% of open crops, 21% of potatoes and 8% of grain soil. You are right, after asking the Member States for additional information and analysing these data, the European Commission really allocated exceptional support to four countries in January this year, a total of EUR 15 million. Of this, 9.1 million went to Lithuania, 3.5 million to Latvia and 1.3 million to Estonia and 1.1 million to Finland. When allocating funds, the European Commission has taken into account how much has not been sown this year in the various countries due to rainfall and excessive humidity. The answer to your question: any Member State can pay more 100% support, in the case of Estonia, this would amount to 1.3 million euros. Yeah, it's okay. I know that the Ministry of Rural Affairs is currently preparing a request for the allocation of funds from the reserve and that it is estimated to be less than EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U35	Arno Bridge, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Farmers believe that it will only be distributed to those who, due to adverse weather conditions, were unable to comply with the winter crops crop plan of the previous year. Will it be distributed only to them, or will the needs of other farmers also be taken into account in relation to climatic conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U37	Thank you for that question. I have also spoken to the Minister for Rural Affairs about this today. I asked him, as you ask, how exactly and to which he could ask for this support. Indeed, as I said in reply to the previous question, Member States have been given the right to add 100% of their support. However, support is targeted at a narrow section of the sector to address a specific problem. As far as I am concerned, the Ministry of Rural Affairs is currently preparing to propose that potato and vegetable growers who have suffered damage should be supported instead of adding a part of the country, because they did not harvest because of bad weather conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U38	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Prime Minister! Some farmers are frustrated because those who worked hard and tried to harvest the harvest were literally destroyed because it would have been cheaper to leave the crop in the field and not to harvest it. Now it turns out that for those who didn't harvest, it's like they're paying a bonus. Is this unfair or not? It is also thought that Estonia ran under the bar this time, and that support, which is seven or eight times smaller than even Lithuanians, has not actually produced any fruit. The question specifically to you: if the Minister for Rural Affairs has sent a reserve application, will you, as Prime Minister, support the separation from the reserve or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U40	Thank you. With regard to the run-through of this bar, I am absolutely certain that the grants I read in response to the question of Mr Arno Silla, a member of the Riigikogu, had certain characteristics on the basis of which they were paid. Financially, if you value Estonia and Lithuania, the amounts are different, unfortunately for Estonia. However, if you compare Estonia and Finland for example, Estonia received more support. Certainly it was not numerical, I mean budget numerical, but there were certain characteristics. Now I will answer your question as to whether I consider it right that the Estonian state should add to the grant money there. As I said, the Ministry of Rural Affairs is currently preparing a request for allocation of funds from the reserve and, as far as I am concerned, their estimate is less than EUR 1 million. The government will certainly make its decisions in a collegial and consensual manner. Personally, I think that this opportunity, which the European Commission has given to the Member States, should be used. I do not know exactly what the Latvian, Lithuanian or Finnish governments are doing, although I believe that this has already been identified by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I think it is right that if we have any ability and strength, it should be considered strongly. So I support this principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U42	The question by Andres Ammas, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U43	Honorable Chairman! Honorable Minister! Your coalition agreement has agreed that the government will increase transparency in the funding of political parties and strengthen monitoring. The responsibility for this task has been entrusted to you. Please describe how you have progressed in this task! Is the job on? Who prepares these proposals? What proposals will be considered? Have you already presented them to the government, or are you planning to present them in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U44	Thank you. Yes, the Ministry of Justice is working on this, and I will certainly present our proposals to the government in the near future. Nor do I deny that some of these proposals actually coincide with what is written in the political system analysis document submitted by the Ministry of Justice to Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When we are talking about monitoring the funding of political parties, it is certainly very important that the Committee on Political Financing has sufficient procedural tools to ensure that transparent and fair solutions are reached. One important thing or proposal that I think it would be appropriate to consider is an increase in the level of forced money for legal persons. The second round of questions, which the Ministry of Justice is also analysing, concerns the issue of limiting the volume of electoral campaigns. I hope to present my proposals first to the government in the spring of this year and then, of course, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Some proposals concerning the political system are already in Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I certainly consider it important that the negotiations are conducted in a spirit of seeking a consensus platform. The issue of field political advertising and the regulation of the electoral community is currently under discussion. However, I will certainly add a few proposals on which I hope a benevolent and serious analysis in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U45	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U46	I'll be more specific. Minister, what problems do you now see in the transparency of political party funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U47	Thank you. I think that the key issue with regard to the transparency of political party funding is, above all, whether our supervisory system functions without gaps. If we look at the OECD recommendations for 2015, they will see the improvement of the monitoring system as a possible weighing point. In fact, the OECD also proposed that the National Audit Office could be granted supervisory powers in part. Estonia has chosen a different path in the political debate and we have a separate committee set up to monitor funding. If we recall the time before that, there was no such supervisory body at all at any time; for a certain time this role was fulfilled by Parliament's special committee on anti-corruption issues. I think it should look fair. The problem was that politicians who were supposed to supervise this system had, to a certain extent, such a personal union. In this sense, I think it is important to ensure, first and foremost, the independence of the supervisory authority and, secondly, that it can realise the general objective of imposing sanctions and achieving a transparent and true solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U48	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U49	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. What you're saying is gonna lift my hair up. It's a very classic left-hand understanding of a bigger, thicker country and a bigger, thicker brother. At the moment, the Commission's task of monitoring funding is to control the incomes of political parties, but it nevertheless regularly requires all kinds of materials from political parties on expenditure. That shouldn't be their jurisdiction at all. We know, among other things, how the Political Financing Monitoring Commission has very categorically called for bank statements from individuals who are not concerned at all, such as the SA for the Protection of the Family and Tradition, which, for some reason, are also treated as political parties. It is certainly possible to reduce the funding of political parties in Estonia simply as an amount from the state budget. It is certainly possible to check that local governments or the state do not spend this money. I highly suggest you not go this way, so we're gonna...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U50	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U51	I would ask this question: do you agree that another organisation should not be set up to have the powers of the investigating body when dealing with political parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U52	Thank you. Oh, what you have touched is a very wide range of topics. The issue is the implementation of a shared burden of proof. Perhaps when we look at the United Nations Convention against Corruption, adopted in New York, for example, it provides, for example, for the possibility of legitimising officials at the level of the Treaty, the obligation to prove the origin of their property. They must prove where their assets really come from. Estonia has not applied this norm, but I think that the Ministry is seriously considering it as one of the elements of transparency. It would certainly be unthinkable in a democratic rule of law for the supervisory body to assume the task of assessing the expenses of political parties or any substantive decisions. Of course, the most important thing in the political process is that transparency is guaranteed. That's the assumption. More broadly, the whole task of supervision in a democratic society is, firstly, to ensure transparency and, secondly, to ensure a level playing field. So that there are no formal rules, such as football, but those who break the rules win. This is extremely dangerous to the democratic system. These are two starting points that need to be guided. There's definitely no big brother thing going on here. Public power is a greater source of danger, so there must be additional requirements than any other human activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U54	Eerik-Niles Kross is asking Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U55	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! We have repeatedly talked about PBK and programmes purchased there, especially those bought with the money of Tallinn City. My question is a little broader, it does not directly concern these programmes, but the general principle. I wonder whether you agree in principle with the view that media content, or programmes purchased from public funds, should comply with the requirements laid down in § 6 of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. For example, programmes must be balanced, there must be a public interest, there must be verified news, etc. These principles are enshrined in the law. Should such requirements also apply to programmes purchased for public funds, for example, from commercial media? In this case, if you generally agree with this principle, could your government support the relevant bill, where we try to write it all down, either in the National Broadcasting Act or why not in the Public Procurement Act, so that it is clear?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U56	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, I support compliance with the law. I think that such principles are that news in any medium must be a) balanced; b) political advertising from one, another or third party must not be included; c) it must be necessary for the viewer or the listener to know what is going on in one, another or third municipality is, of course, the main, primary purpose of any purchase of media space or media content. Whether it's on the radio news, I know that Tallinn is ordering news, for example, from Kuku radio, which is a private radio or some other. The news really needs to inform the audience or the viewer about the activities carried out in this municipality in the utilities sector, the educational sector, the social field, etc. So I think this approach is very sensible. I would also like to say that this discussion, which you said on your question, that we have kept it quite well in this Chamber, has been very necessary. I certainly don't think that's any less important. We have tried to move more towards a common understanding within this debate. I hope it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U57	Eerik-Niles Kross, clarification question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U58	In fact, the Prime Minister answered more or less the question. I will then repeat the last part of my question. Right now, that principle is not really in the law. The spirit of the law, of course, says this, but the law doesn't explicitly say that. If we come up with such a bill, do you consider it logical to support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U59	Thank you. This is, of course, quite a step forward when Mr Kross says that there was a bit of an answer in the answer. Thank you for that compliment. That's not the least important thing. I answered the question of Mr Kruus, a member of the Riigikogu sitting before you, whether the Government of the Republic would support a reserve application. Your question was whether the Government of the Republic would support you if you came up with some kind of legal initiative or a bill. As you know, the Government of the Republic of Estonia is not such that there is one person at the table who says: that is the case and that is the case. I said to the previous questioner and I will also tell you that I think this is worth the debate. As I said in answering your first question, I do not see any illogicality here. This is the basis for all forms of advertising/message or ordering for public funding, say. Once we have discussed PBK with you, you have asked why we are bringing in state agencies here, but in certain cases, and in the case of this example, we have to do just that. I think that the basic assumption and desire of the Rescue Board has been that the information should reach the listener, that it would be substantive and that the listener would like to hear it. The Road Administration, the Consumer Protection Board and the Police Department have also ordered programmes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U60	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Listening to your previous PBK responses on another day, too, gave the impression that you are trying very clearly to stress that there is nothing wrong with information. In my opinion, no opponent has criticised the level of information. Do you realize, however, that if a government controlled by one party orders programmes for taxpayers' money, the content of which does not clearly coincide with the general understanding of the security and other world views of the Republic of Estonia, this is a problem? What Mr Kross referred to would be a legislative amendment that would help you solve this problem, and I think that as chairman of the Tallinn Council you should and could solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U62	Thank you. I don't know if you didn't want to listen or if you didn't listen to my answer to Mr. Kross, but that's exactly what I said, I think this is the right basic principle. That's point one. Point two, you use a very powerful and embossed expression when you say that one municipality is under the control of one party. I don't think you can ever say that. Municipalities are always formed according to the outcome of the elections, i.e. which parties, individual candidates or lists are supported. True, the Central Party is very long and strongly supported in the capital. I am, of course, very pleased about this. Apparently, this party has then been able to show results in improving the city's living environment, the real visions of the future that the people of Tallinn want to see and hear. To say that someone has somehow abused public money, I believe that there are research institutions in the country that are fully empowered to do so, and who must investigate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U63	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U64	Mart Helme asks the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I will essentially continue where Mr Laane and Mr Talvik have already started, or Artur Fyodorov's case. Recently, we expressed our distrust of Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Kadri Samson. One reason was that he had been in negotiations when it was decided that his close and party associates would also be in the circle of beneficiaries. Now, I would say that the case that we have been discussing today is much worse because it is a tax debtor, a person who has ongoing trials. When you answered Mr Ammas's question, you said that the public sector is subject to requirements other than those of the private sector. Don't you think your answer to Andres Ammas' question is very clear that you should review this agreement as a matter of urgency...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U67	...and with this particular person, who may not directly provide justice assistance, but makes a profit, to terminate the contract?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U68	Thank you for your question. Time's long gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U69	Don't you think this treaty should be terminated?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U70	Thank you. I want to stress that, as I said, I have asked for an internal audit to assess whether the Ministry has complied with due diligence. So far, I have absolutely no reason to doubt this because of the random follow-up of nearly 700 of the 5 000 services provided. As regards the possible tax issue that emerged here, I have asked the internal audit team to assess this as well. The basis for the termination of the contract, as I said, is a breach of contract terms. If the terms of the contract have been violated, the Ministry will certainly take steps to this end. I don't have any ambiguity here. However, as regards public and private sector issues, the fact is that I do not take any moral defence platform in such matters, but I would stress once again that this is a private person who, as the winner of a very clear competition, provides a specific private service for which the Ministry pays after it has been provided. We actually had a second, alternative scheme in mind. We discussed whether it would be possible to hire public officials to provide legal assistance in specific county centres. However, given the general logic and the current reduction in the public sector, we did not want to choose this route.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U71	Mart Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. According to information published in the press, this particular company has provided less service than the contractual terms and conditions require, both financially and in a case-by-case manner. This essentially means that the contract has not been fulfilled to the extent and to the extent prescribed. That's one side of it. The other side is that it's your party partner. Do you not think that if you practice this practice, it will cast a shadow on your entire party and on you as one of the leading figures of the party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U73	Thank you. I mean, what kind of practice? I would like to emphasise once again: this competition was organised on an objective basis. As I said, the contestant who lost it challenged it in court. The court saw no reason to challenge the competition in any way. You used to refer to it as being involved in making or sharing matters in the past. No, I didn't have anything to do with it. Personally, I learned about the outcome of the competition after it had taken place. The question of whether it makes sense to make any fundamental changes here. As I said, I have asked for internal audit in this area. There are very clear grounds on which the agreement can be terminated. You said the service has been rendered less. We have a financial ceiling for the service, i.e. we cannot spend more than the state budget is intended for this service. The service is provided until the maximum limit is reached if there are people who wish to receive legal aid. There is no doubt that the legal advice project is still in the start-up phase, which is probably why fewer people have been aware of it and wanted to use it. The circle of persons has been, yes, the maximum rate provided for in the first year of start-up. If the number of customers increases, the Ministry will also pay more money on a case-by-case basis, which is a mechanical correlation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U74	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U75	Thank you. Mr. Minister, your personal concern is the signature of this agreement. I'd say for me, it's still a reference to the fact that all the conditions of the competition are met. If even the Ministry of Justice can't arrange things in such a way that everything is legally correct, then it would be a real flask. However, the fact that everything is legally correct does not take away from us the problem that ethically it is very incorrect. This is your party partner, who has a very bad reputation and a pattern of economic behaviour. I have a question: didn't you care? Doesn't anyone ever look at this, in which case the problem is the same due diligence already at the time of the competition, or was it found that if everything is legally correct, one person's very bad reputation is not a problem? Which one is it? I don't think either is really acceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U76	Thank you. The Ministry certainly demonstrated and verified the due diligence prior to making the first payment thoroughly the cost documents, evidence, lease contracts, brokers' contracts, in order to establish that the provision of the service had been prepared and could actually be provided. At the start of the project, the representative of the Ministry also visited all the counselling points and made a so-called inspection request. The contracts concluded with advisors and the existence of a customer management programme were also examined, through which the fact of the provision of the service can be verified. If the State buys a particular service and has previously organised a competition, then the State will certainly also have a duty of due diligence, i.e. it will have to check that it actually receives the service and does not pay for what it has not received. The State must replace the corresponding quality and volume of the service. That is the key issue. And the duty of due diligence was fulfilled by the Ministry. If you ask whether there was a basis under the terms of the competition that would allow the results of the competition not to be announced, you referred to the reputation of the shareholder, it was not in the criteria. Once again, I stress that this is a private contract for the provision of a particular service.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U77	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U78	Jüri Adams' question to Mr Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U79	Mr. Minister! In the new year, when rural governments and county elders disappeared, the governor's supervision of the local government units disappeared. The law stated that the Ministry of Justice, not the Minister, would be involved in the new supervision. It has never been understood to me how administrative law can be in such a way that a man's task is to be carried out by the entire ministry. How does it start now? Do you have an official who does this in particular? What's the official's name? How has he organized his work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U80	Thank you. It is part of the ministry's work, as has the Ministry's Statute. In the area of justice management policy, there is a special advisor who centrally deals with these matters and, of course, also involves other specialists or officials from other ministries, depending on the field. In total, we had some 30 cases pending in connection with this supervision, which had already started in rural governments. I was even a little surprised that this volume was of this magnitude across the country. The ministry took over the work of rural governments or rural elders in these matters. We have also received inquiries during this year, questions that are asked either to initiate proceedings or to consider proceedings. That's what we're analyzing. At the moment, we have been approached, among other things, by several municipalities, concerning the question of council committees. They want to know if there is any reason for the Ministry to exercise its supervisory function here. Right now, we're analyzing all of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U81	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U82	This question of council committees is, of course, topical, because at least the Tartu Circuit Court made one fantastic decision: the matter of committees is only the internal affairs of the council. For example, a majority of the council might decide not to let an unpleasant member attend a council meeting. However, I have not noticed that the Ministry would have published a statement about who the supervisor is and what his email address and telephone number are. Does he sign the papers or do you sign them instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U83	No, it is still a right of representation, i.e. a specific advisor will perform this function on behalf of our ministry, on the basis of the principles set out in his work manual. I cannot say that we would have made a secret of this, but I think that if there is any indication in the House of the People's Representation that it should be communicated more widely, then I will certainly take this observation along and I will draw attention to it. In a fashion or another, different people have come to the Ministry, so there has been no complete ignorance about the transfer of this function, but no further information about people's rights will ever do any harm. What's the way, we'll think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U84	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U85	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Please, could you explain the methods of monitoring? When the law on the abolition of rural governments was processed in the course of the administrative reform, the greatest advantage was given as to why supervision should be on the ground, the fact that local circumstances and problems are known and perhaps solutions are better understood. Now I understand that all this supervision issues were centralized into ministries, so it is under the authority of up to five officials. But Estonia is slightly larger than five counties or five municipalities. How's your job? How much do you visit and get to know people and life? The adopted acts are, of course, available, but I would also like to know why they have been decided in one way or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U86	Thank you. It's an additional public interest function, I'll be honest. It is not structured by any analogy, for example, as an analogy of the President's probabilities, which means that all laws go to the President and he controls them. I do not deny that we do not have the ambition to get acquainted with all the individual acts of the local government, given that they are mass and then to evaluate them. The general law enforcement mechanism of the State is structured in such a way that, if there is an interested party who feels that his rights are being violated, he or she will refer the matter to the administrative court. That's the principle. Secondly, as you rightly said, the various aspects of supervision are divided between ministries. The supervision of an individual act by the Ministry of Justice has, one might say, a function of public interest. We will certainly act in the process in such a way that, if there is any doubt or a complaint that could have such a situation in order to consider initiating a case, we will certainly ask the local government for an explanation, as the law requires. If the explanation is not enough, the Ministry of Justice can propose to bring a specific individual act into line with the law. In the event of non-compliance, the Ministry shall have the right to refer the matter to the Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U87	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! Thank you, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U88	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Incoming check, please! The assembly has 81 members of the Riigikogu. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Now what? [[A comment from the floor.]] All right, let's get this straight! Honourable ambassadors! Your comment has been taken into account. I can see from here that there may be other MPs in the hall who are actually present, but somehow you can't register your presence. We'll help you in a minute. Nevertheless, we are going to the agenda today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U89	The first item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan' by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's rapporteur is Johannes Kert. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U90	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. For a bill of 564, I have the following to report. The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 18 December last year. The first reading took place on 17 January. The deadline for submitting amendments, which was 31 January at 5.15 p.m., did not include any proposals from outside the Steering Committee. The Committee on National Defence tabled one amendment as the commission and made one linguistic clarification. The amendment does not change the substance of the draft and is more precise, as it makes point 1 clearer. The Commission's amendment also makes it clearer that the draft under discussion will increase the number of armed forces active in the Defence Forces to 46 in the Afghanistan mission. The amendment and linguistic specification have been underlined in the text of the draft. Additional contributions are due to NATO and the US's request to increase the number of our active troops in Afghanistan. In addition, the United Kingdom Minister of Defence has sent a request to a colleague of Estonia to support the UK unit on a mission to Afghanistan. As we know, the United Kingdom is the leader of NATO's pre-positioned battle group in Estonia and it is appropriate for us to respond to the UK's request. On the basis of this decision of the Riigikogu, Estonia would fulfil its allied duties in NATO. The Estonian Defence Forces would send a team-size unit to Afghanistan's mission, plus a support element and a staff element. The group is protected by armoured technology, which also ensures greater effectiveness in carrying out tasks. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 5 February and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. At the same meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U91	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Johannes Kert! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. One proposal has been put forward to amend bill 564. Dear Riigikogu, we are going to the final vote! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan' draft 564. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the bill, and no one was against or impartial. Draft decision 564 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U92	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Jaanus Marrand. Please, Jaanus Marrand!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Before you is the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 532. Today's the second reading. The draft was discussed between two readings at a working meeting and a Commission meeting. A meeting of the Commission to discuss the draft was held on 22 January. It was attended by Kertu Martshenkov, expert of the aviation service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Mari Reinfeldt, legal adviser to the Authority. Mr Martchenkov presented the amendments. I shall be hasty to say that the Members of the Commission did not submit amendments, but a number of details and wording were specified between the two readings. The Commission therefore finalised 15 amendments in line with the initiators. Most of them were editorial and only some of the proposals concerned more substantive aspects. For example, in the course of the discussion, the air security instructor certificate and other security issues were clarified, as well as the date of entry into force of the law, which was at first slightly earlier. According to the current amendment, the deadline for entry into force is 15 March. As a reminder, the draft deals primarily with security issues raised by the European Aviation Safety Agency. There was not much political discussion on the draft procedure. It was found that the aviation law has been amended very many times. Aviation is an area whose changes have been quite rapid in Estonia and perhaps the legislation relating to our country's aviation has not been very consistent. I guess it's come from a relatively empty place to rebuild. The Aviation Act has recently changed quite a bit. At the hearing, it was noted that there are a number of paragraphs, such as paragraphs 46 and 48, which have used a large number of top-scripts, which show that the law has been amended a lot. In fact, a 'new law', a whole new text should be created, and this will also be dealt with. After the debate, it was concluded that the draft could be submitted to second reading by today, 7 February. It was decided to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading by 14 February and then to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U94	Any questions for the waitress? Thank you, Jaanus Marrand. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. 15 proposals have been put forward to amend bill 532, all of which are from the lead committee. Let's go through them. First, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. The second reading of Bill 532 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U95	First reading of the draft Act on Accession of the European Forest Institute to the Convention initiated by the Government of the Republic 567. On behalf of the initiator, the Minister for the Environment Siim Kiisler will make a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U96	Honorable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The European Forest Institute (EFI) Convention was drawn up on 28 August 2003 in Joensu, Finland, and entered into force internationally on 4 September 2005. The aim of this draft is to become a party to the EF Convention in order to participate in the work of the EIF and thereby promote the protection and sustainable management of forests in Europe. This will provide an additional opportunity for Estonia to participate in better design of forest policy and decision-making based on knowledge, to participate in the selection of topics for research programmes and to receive relevant information. The information provided by the EIF is important for monitoring and directing forestry activities across Europe. When Estonia accedes to the Convention, Estonia becomes a Member State of the European Union. Accession to the EFI Convention gives Estonia full power to participate in and vote on the EFI Council meetings, and we also get a good opportunity to cooperate on an equal footing with other members. In addition to its members, the EIF also has associated members, which may include research institutes, educational institutions, companies, forest institutions, NGOs and other institutions with a similar focus from European countries. The Estonian University of Life Sciences is an associated member of the EFI since 2003, i.e. from the very beginning, which makes it possible to plan joint research projects with partner organisations and apply for funding from international donors. The main objective of the EIF is to explore forest policy at European level, including its environmental aspects, the ecology of European forests, its diverse use and health, and the supply and demand of timber and other forest products and services, in order to promote the protection and sustainable management of European forests. As far as financial obligations are concerned, Member States do not have financial obligations, but may make voluntary contributions. Estonia currently does not intend to make voluntary donations. In summary, accession to the Convention supports the development of a knowledge-based forestry policy. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U97	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You noted that the Estonian University of Life Sciences has been an associate member since 2003. Have you ever wondered how the Estonian University of Life Sciences appreciates the activities of the EFI? And why was Estonian membership only now on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U99	Thank you. I admit I haven't talked to a country university about this. According to ministerial officials, accession to the convention was discussed in the early 2000s when others signed the convention. I have examined whether there is any record of these discussions or any papers on the decisions taken, but I have not been able to find any decisions or minutes of debate. However, as a small country, we have often had the view that we have been cautious about joining international agreements just doubting whether we have the strength to do so. There is no direct membership fee or other financial obligation for this Convention, but participation means additional working time. I can't tell you why the weight leaned back then in favor of the decision not to join. But right now we are the only country in the European Union that has not yet joined it. In this situation, we found it reasonable to come to you with such a proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U100	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your introduction, you mentioned that membership is necessary to participate in joint research projects. You are the Minister of the Environment in a country where forests and forestry are very important to people. Can you give an example of what kind of research project you think Estonia could benefit from or benefit from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U102	If not, then countries will also benefit from these surveys, the data will be either public or public. In the case of a Member State, the difference is that we can decide, along with others, what to focus on, which topics to prioritise, and therefore which studies to carry out as a priority. If we're not at that table as a member, we're not going to be involved in these decisions. Here we spoke about the various courses of action of this institute. I must admit that I am pleased that we are also talking about the use of forests and wood, about ways of using wood better to deserve it more, but also about developing forest-related services on the other hand. Forest services are specifically mentioned here, and this is an area that we can also develop strongly in Estonia. We refer not only to timber as a product or goods, but also to services provided in the forest. We can appreciate them more. I think that's a good goal for this institute.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U103	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U104	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Please, would you tell us who this minister, Chancellor or whoever is representing us in this organization is in Estonia? And I'm going to ask you another question. Of course, it is very good if we participate in various studies, but how could these studies affect Estonian forest policy? A new forestry development plan should soon be drawn up. Have you thought about how the experience gained there could be applied in this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U105	Thank you. First question. I assume that the country is represented by a minister at a major annual conference, although it may not always be possible to do so, it may overlap with another important event. However, if meetings of the Supervisory Board take place more often, Estonia is expected to be represented by an official of the Ministry of the Environment, such as the Deputy Chancellor or Head of Department. I don't dare say anything specific right now. The second question was the use of the results of the studies. This is certainly a very good input in the preparation of a new forestry development plan. We all understand that the debates in the debate on this development plan are going to be very heated, which is already being seen. I hope that, in the end, the disputes will go back to looking at the facts, not simply from emotions, but from facts, from research to research. In this sense, it is very good if we can make the most of the results of the studies carried out under the auspices of the European Forest Institute and take into account the trends that exist in Europe. This will certainly be of benefit in our discussions and will raise the level of debate that lies ahead in the preparation of the new forestry development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U106	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that countries do not have a direct obligation to make contributions, but donations are made. Do you have an overview of how many different countries have donated? One could say that there are no free lunches, and if we want to raise certain issues there and demand various studies that would be useful to us, then the question arises as to whether it is polite to demand it without paying anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U108	I agree! If we very strongly want to focus on which studies to commission, especially additional studies that are not a priority for other countries, then we should also play a stronger role in paying. According to memory, Finland and Germany have been the biggest voluntary supporters.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U109	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U110	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Let me ask you one more question. It is in some ways a form of cooperation between countries, but the state of forestry in European countries is different. After all, there are countries where almost all the forest has been cut down. Can you name the most influential countries in this organisation in terms of their attitude to forests and the state of forestry? Is Estonia one of the most influential countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U111	I don't know how to classify like that. In addition to the countries of the European Union, Turkey, Norway and Serbia are members. My experience in the discussions of the European Union Environment Council is limited to a legislative act such as LULUCEF, which contains directives on land use, land use change and forestry. And these were very heated discussions in the Environment Council. I cannot say that some countries are very influential and some are less influential. I can tell you that the overall trend tends to be that those countries that currently have a smaller share of forest-covered areas in the whole territory are relatively radically demanding stricter restrictions on forest protection. These countries, which have the majority of their territory covered by forests, are very sceptical about this, for them the forest industry is very important. There was a clear distinction in this debate between Finland, which is very concerned about the socio-economic implications that European Union decisions may have. Slovenia, for example, has the same concern. These countries are more cautious and pay more attention to the aspect of forest management, not only to nature conservation and climate policy aspects.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U112	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U113	Thank you. I imagine you've either found out through the University of Life Sciences or you've been looking for these contacts to find out exactly how this policy-making is taking place there. I understand that studies are being carried out and studies are coming to conclusions. How will these conclusions be agreed? I also noticed that there are also so-called old European countries in membership, which have quite a few forests left. Will countries like us make more proposals to them, or will they make more proposals to countries like us? How exactly is this process going down there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U114	As I said, the action plan will be put in place and agreed on the priority actions. Without participating there, I really don't know who's making any more suggestions for whom. But the output is also a variety of events. ThinkForest is the most famous of them. On the other hand, research will be carried out leading to scientific recommendations and solutions that come under the auspices of the Forest Institute. These are the recommendations of the European Forest Institute.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U115	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Minister of the Environment Siim Kisler! Peeter Ernits will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U116	Good manager! Colleagues! First of all, I say that this new convention should of course be joined. But why is it in our Chamber now, and why was it only now discussed in the Commission? I'm telling you honestly, I haven't figured it out to this day either. The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft on Monday 22 January. The Minister has already told us what kind of animal this European Forest Institute convention is, I am not going to recount it. In the Commission, however, the main question was why we have been jogging about this for so long. I would like to remind you that in 1993 in Finland, Jonusu, this EF was established as an association. An international convention was drawn up in 2003, and Estonia is currently the last, red lantern in this sense. At the same time, all Estonian foresters know that Finnish forestry and forest science are among the best in the world, and the ties of Estonian people with Finnish forest men are very good. Rainer Vakra asked why we're a red lantern. Riina Martverk, Head of the Forest Department of the Ministry, said that nothing really changes with the merger, as our University of Life Sciences is already an associate member and the information can be obtained through it. Accession would only show solidarity with the rich countries of the forest. I, too, repeatedly wondered why we were suddenly joining now. Riina Martverk again explained that since our University of Life Sciences is an associate member, does science and receives information, it's as if it's all it takes. Accession as a country was discussed ten years ago, but during the economic downturn, membership of international organisations was considered to be negative. As there are no costs involved now, we are in favour of accession. My colleague Terje Trei asked that the Member States do not have financial obligations, but how much the University of Life Sciences is now paying as an associate member to get information. The Minister replied that this membership fee was EUR 1750. I also asked that the Convention allows Member States to make voluntary contributions. Riina Martverk, Head of the Forest Department, said that only a few Member States had made voluntary donations. I asked for this general talk to be a little concrete: how this funding works and why Estonia has still not joined it before, why we have been a red lantern. It turns out that not only a few countries have made voluntary donations, as Riina Martverk, Head of the Forest Department, explained. I later received a reply from the Ministry that voluntary donations were made by Finland, Germany, France, and Spain, and repeatedly. The entire budget of this Institute is EUR 13.2 million. A good colleague, Meelis Mälberg, was interested in what kind of institution this European Forest Institute is. Riina Martverk explained that it deals with forest research programmes. The Institute's regional centres deal, for example, with forest fires in the south and sustainable forestry under the Eastern programme. To sum up, I'll be honest with you: I don't understand why we've been squirming. The reply to the letter of inquiry sent by the Ministry was that the protocols on discussions at the beginning of the 2000s were then abolished by the rest of the normal countries joining the European Forest Institute Convention. They're nowhere, or at least they haven't been found. I am not a conspiracy theorist, but if we are now discussing making a cellulose supercombinate and designing a new forestry policy, why is this subject suddenly on the table? If all European countries have joined it long ago, including Latvia and Lithuania, why are we doing this now? I stress that it is important that this step should have been taken a long time ago. I, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, have not understood that. By the way, I also had contact with professors at the University of Earth. I talked to Hard Tullus. He said he hadn't heard that countries could be parties. I also received an answer from Professor Peter Muiste. He said, 'Maybe this hasn't seemed important to our government before. ' Professor Peter Muiste said so! Consequently, the current government takes a more adequate view of the matter than the former. He understands that he must also be in line with other European countries in this area, be it as a red lantern. So these questions remain, but the convention is excellent. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U117	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Minister was unable to introduce to me in more detail the research programmes already carried out by the University of Earth as an Associated Member, the cooperation projects. I hope that the Commission has taken an interest in this, because they have been working together since 2003. I am particularly interested in whether these EF programmes are also linked to the forest-related programmes of the major European Horizon 2020 initiative. To what extent is such a link between research projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U119	Thank you for your question. I honestly admit that these issues were also on the agenda in the Commission, and I have tried to answer them later, but there are no answers. By the way, there are other conventions that come right on the table. They're stuck in the drawer, and now they're coming soon. There's almost a lot of them. I guess earlier ministers have taken a lukewarm look at the ratification of such international conventions. But specifically on this subject, we did not talk in the Commission, and neither do I, although I have tried a little bit to get it, a concrete overview of what they are doing. I know they go to conferences, they go to programs. As I said, the University of Life Sciences is an associate member and pays EUR 1700 for receiving "relevant information," but we are not involved in the decision-making process. And now, as a country, we don't have to pay anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U120	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! You stressed, both at the beginning and at the end, that you should accede to this Convention. At the same time, you said that scientists at the Agricultural University didn't even know that the country could be a contracting party. We understood that we have a good relationship with Finland as the leading state of forestry science. You didn't really understand why we should join. Is it only because we are the last in the European Union and now there is a way to save our honour? Is that really the only reason, or is it that our country really gets something out of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U122	Thank you. I'm gonna be honest again. I don't get it either. At the same time, if we belong to the civilized world and all the rest, including our neighbours, including Finland at the forefront of forestry science, then I think it makes sense that we will finally do this. After all, we are a neighbour of Finland right under his stomach, yet we have not shown any interest in joining this convention as a country to this day. Yes, the people of the University of Life Sciences participate in these programmes and receive information, but the Estonian state has not been able to contribute to shaping the general forest policy to this day. All we've got is information that's being discussed. But I stressed that in fact there are still conventions left to be plucked or dusted in the drawers of the Minister for the Environment, there will be more. In the case of this convention, I see no reason to delay and announce that Estonia does not want to participate in the international convention. Besides, if it doesn't cost us anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U123	There are no further questions for the Commission's rapporteur. Thank you, Peter Ernits! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 567 is complete. I will set the deadline of 21 February at 4 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U124	First reading of draft Act 568 on the approval of the 2012 amendments to the Protocol on Heavy Metals to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the initiator, the Minister for the Environment Siim Kiisler will make a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U125	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am before you with the next draft which proposes to approve amendments to the Protocol to the Convention. The Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution, the so-called Geneva Convention, entered into force internationally in 1983 and has 51 participants. Estonia acceded to the Convention in 2000. The Convention obliges the Contracting Parties to take appropriate measures to reduce pollutant emissions, in particular for sources of pollution whose effects extend to the territory of neighbouring countries. Heavy metal particles attach to extremely fine particles through long distances of air currents and therefore cause both short- and long-term adverse effects in areas beyond the source of pollution. By cooperating transnationally with the exchange of information, consultations, research and monitoring, it will be possible to explore the consequences of long-range air pollution and to address the problems encountered, to coordinate the implementation of measures to prevent air pollution, including to reduce and prevent long-range transboundary air pollution. It is possible to develop best policies and strategies that provide air quality control systems and control measures appropriate to balanced development, using best, economically appropriate and environmentally friendly technologies. The approval of the amendments to the Heavy Metal Protocol will increase Estonia's credibility in international relations and will also encourage third countries to comply with the Protocol. In the framework of the Convention, a total of eight protocols have been drawn up to reduce the growth of pollutant or group of pollutants and to implement emission reduction measures. The specific protocol aims to reduce the emissions of heavy metals generated by human activities, which spread across national borders and have adverse effects on human health and the environment. Heavy metals are called metallic elements with a density greater than 5000 kg/m3. The Protocol shall pay particular attention to the reduction of mercury, cadmium and lead emissions. Amendments to the Heavy Metals Protocol were adopted in 2012. It was decided to set stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large stationary sources, providing for flexible transitional arrangements to ensure a simplified merger for those not yet Parties to the Protocol. This arrangement shall apply to countries which accede to the Protocol during the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2019. The requirement for each Party to participate actively in programmes implemented in accordance with the Convention was introduced. The 2012 amendments to this Protocol have already been approved in the European Union by a Council Decision in 2016 and entered into force on the date of its adoption. The reduction commitments set out in the amendment have been transposed into the European Union by the European Parliament and Council Directive on industrial emissions and the Estonian Industrial Emissions Act in 2013. So in 2013, these commitments have been taken over in Estonia, and the approval of the protocol does not bring new obligations to Estonian companies or legislation. The main sources of heavy metal emissions in Estonia are the energy industry, mainly oil shale burning thermal power plants, and mobile sources of pollution. Compared to 1990, heavy metal emissions in Estonia have decreased by between 50% and 95%, thanks to the modernisation of fishing equipment, mainly by thermal treatment of oil shale. Pursuant to Article 12 of that Convention, these amendments to the Protocol shall enter into force for the Contracting Parties on the 90th day following the deposit of their acceptance documents by two thirds of the Contracting Parties in the depositary. Therefore, Estonia's enforcement is necessary to ensure that the amendments to the Protocol enter into force as a whole. At the moment, we have not yet entered into force and so far only 12 out of 32 Parties to the Protocol have approved the amendments to the Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U126	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Based on your report, I have a new question. You said that Estonia has been following these principles long ago and that all entrepreneurs who may potentially pollute heavy metals into the air are in order. Pollution is reduced by up to 95%. As we are talking about air flows, air travel is known to be blowing in every direction, I wondered whether our neighbouring countries would also respect these principles. What is the situation in neighbouring countries? I mean the neighbours of the East, the South, the West and the North.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U128	Thank you. As far as the Member States of the European Union are concerned, they are in good shape. They're on the same platform as us. Hopefully, Estonia's participation and depositing the documents approving the amendments will also help convince those countries in our vicinity who have not yet done so. I am thinking in particular of a country that is east of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U129	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In this explanatory note, I found a very interesting sign. The Ministry of the Environment has started to draw up a national programme to reduce pollutant emissions. What is the starting point for this programme, and when could this national programme be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U131	These are the answers I have to give you in writing, and at this point in time, I do not know exactly how to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U132	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U133	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I understand that eight protocols have been drawn up within the framework of the Convention and Estonia has joined six. Maybe you said that already, but I missed it, but why haven't we joined the other two?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U134	I can't tell you why we haven't joined. In general, we join such protocols step by step. As you can see, this is quite a long process. During the discussion on the previous point, it also seemed that it would take years to join an international agreement. I really cannot say whether, in the case of the other two protocols, the question is that we are fundamentally opposed to a point there. However, in the debate on the previous item, the rapporteur, Peeter Ernits, pointed out that we still had these mergers ahead of us. I can say that, in the short term, four conventions or protocols are to be submitted for ratification. The draft we are currently discussing is one of the three drafts with its content, which are already in the Riigikogu proceedings, and we intend to present four more in the near future. So this volume is very large, there are many agreements and protocols. On two specific protocols, however, I can send you the written information that we have on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U135	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! On the subject of the last item on the agenda, we were completely last in Europe, and we are among the first third. We have significantly reduced the release of heavy metals into the air. So we're going to emit relatively few of them, but do you have any measurement data on what our air condition is really like? Will this convention be useful, or will we still be exposed to pollution from some distance where this agreement is not much cared for?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U137	Thank you. The general opinion of the experts is that the air in Estonia is very clean compared to that of other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U138	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U139	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Glad to hear the air is very clean. But the leaders of Kohtla-Järve City went to our committee and complained that the air was still disgusting, it's hard to breathe. But my question is: how many of these years have we caught these heavy metals, cadmium and mercury from the chimneys in Ida-Viru County? How many grand? Can you tell?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U140	Thank you. I don't know how to answer a technical question like that. I don't know how many grand exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U141	No more questions for the members of the Riigikogu who initiated the draft. The Chairman of the Committee Rainer Vakra will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U142	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We have the first reading of the draft law approving the 2012 amendments to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution. We remember that the Government of the Republic launched it on 8 January. As the Minister said, the amendments made in 2012 set stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large stationary sources, as well as a flexible transitional regime applicable to countries acceding to the Protocol from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2019. The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft at its meeting on 22 January. The Minister for the Environment and the Head of the Department for ambient air at the Ministry presented the draft and answered questions from the members of the Commission. At the same meeting, the Commission also took procedural decisions: appoint Rainer Vakra, member of the Environment Committee, to appoint a draft rapporteur, and propose that the first reading be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 7 February and that the first reading be closed. It is also proposed that the deadline for amendments to the draft be set at 4 p.m. on 21 February. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Having listened to this discussion in this large Chamber, it can be said that all the questions that were asked here today were, in fact, the questions of the Members of the Commission. One such general issue, to which I am also pointing out, also concerns the previous item on the agenda. Members of the Commission were also interested, as a result of which accession to environmental conventions has recently increased. The Minister noted that the majority of international conventions are environmental. At the same time, he confirmed that it was in this semester that the Ministry of the Environment had not set a separate objective of joining several conventions, but it must be acknowledged that the European Union Presidency had been the driving force behind more active accession. Our officials have had to explain to their colleagues on several occasions the reasons why Estonia, although very active in this area and at all leading in environmental matters, has not joined this, second or third convention. As a result, we are also discussing these conventions more here in the Riigikogu. And it is known in advance that there will be a number of other drafts on the subject this semester.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U143	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U144	Thank you, good Chairman. Good chairman of the committee! Did you get an answer to my last question at the committee? Eight protocols have been drawn up within the framework of the Convention, while Estonia has joined only six. What is the status of the other two protocols?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U145	We also discussed this in the Commission, and the answer was analogous. These accessions are in the process and Estonia plans to approve these protocols in the future. Why hasn't it been done so far? I can point out again that this is a good question. The members of the Committee on the Environment will certainly ask the Minister again next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U146	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U147	Thank you. Dear waitress, Even if this was not the case in the Commission, I am still asking you this question. We're talking about getting heavy metal particles into the air and their effects on air pollution. Does this convention have any bearing on the Baltic Sea? Some parts of the air are known to reach the sea sooner or later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U148	Thank you. This is what the specific protocol actually means. The Gothenburg Protocol concerns the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and ground-level ozone. It is therefore clear that this is also a matter of the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-07_U149	Thank you, Rainer Vakra! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the committee rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of Bill 568 is complete. I will set the deadline of 21 February at 4 p.m. for the amendments. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 2.59 p.m.
