ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the 21st of February briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. Please! 39 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Currently 62 members of the Riigikogu are missing. In today's briefing, the Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson. Given that we have seven key issues, I will allow an additional question for each of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U2	First, Prime Minister Jüri asks Ratas Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U3	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I have a very big problem, and I think a lot of others have the same problem. Last week, the Central Party Group came up with the view that we have a second Republic of Estonia. It can be interpreted as having the first republic, then the ESSR and now the second Republic of Estonia. This, however, goes against what has always been the basis for restoring our statehood: that we have had one Republic of Estonia. I have the question as to why such a statement came out just before the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. As Head of Government and Head of the Centre Party, please explain this!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U4	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! There's no reason for your concern. Our view is that the Republic of Estonia was restored on 20 August 1991 on the basis of legal continuity. That's my personal conviction, too. Of course, when the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia adopted a decision on Estonia's national independence on 20 August 1991, it stressed the continuity of the Republic of Estonia. I stress: this decision emphasizes the continuity of the Republic of Estonia; I will sign it one hundred and one per cent, confirm the independence of our country and seek the restoration of the diplomatic relations of the Republic of Estonia. The position of the Centre Party is one here: the Republic of Estonia was restored on 20 August 1991 on the basis of legal continuity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U5	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U6	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I am pleased to hear that this is your position and that the Centre Party also has such a position. However, the question is still: if the Group of the Centre Party comes to the Chamber of the Riigikogu and, as a group's position, that we have another Republic of Estonia, what is the point? I understand that the political groups do, however, present the views of their political parties. Can you explain that to me? Let's just say that I have always hoped that you would believe in this continuity, as you replied. However, the question remains as to what about your partymates and the position of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U7	It is certainly not the position of the Centre Party Group that this is another republic. I don't accept that. And where has the Central Party Group expressed this position? I took out a statement that was adopted by the Riigikogu on 14 February 2012. There the citizens of the Republic of Estonia were thanked, who acted in the name of the de facto restoration of the Republic of Estonia during the years of the occupation of the Soviet Union or the national socialist population in Germany. In making this statement, the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the fact that the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia, which was occupied in the second world war, was not interrupted. Since you did not listen to me at the moment, I would like to reiterate one point in this statement: this statement was based on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the fact that the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia, which was occupied in the second world war, was not interrupted. In favour of this statement, the current member of the Riigikogu, Professor Aadu Must, who spoke on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, called for the vote to be true. He invited all honourable members of the Riigikogu who were in the Chamber to vote in favour of this statement. And so did I.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U8	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would remind you that there is one additional question to be asked on each of the main issues. This one question can now be asked by Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister, do not respond to the members of the Riigikogu in such a way that there is no basis for your suspicion. After all, you are giving rise to doubts about these substances all the time. The fact is also that in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, your party partner has spoken about two Estonias, and this is not the only case. For me, there have been a lot of cases. And Indrek Teder has recently written, for example, about how the state is taking on the occupation damage. I'm calling it three things right now. One is the money stolen at the Vnešekonombank, and I am thinking of the money frozen by Russia, not what was allegedly lost there in the meantime. Then the reason for giving money to the church and, finally, the problem of the so-called forced tenants. Now, on your heart, has anyone said directly to the government in addition to this article, that you are constantly questioning the continuity of the Republic of Estonia when you bring such reasons when you give money to someone or talk to someone about injustice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U10	Thank you. After all, as a opposition politician, you do this job all the time, from you I hear it all the time. But what matters is what I believe in. What matters is what the highest power in Estonia believes in. And I am convinced that I cannot blame the Centre Party for not relying on legal continuity. I told Maris Lauri that the Republic of Estonia was restored on the basis of the legal continuity of 20.08.91. That's the case, and that's what the Centre Party believes. Now what you referred to when you accused us of your question: that is the question of the church. Yes, I really think that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia and the entire government must work to resolve certain issues in Estonian society. I read it in your body language that you don't like it. But I'm sorry, this question of the Church of Niguliste was between earth and heaven for more than 25 years, I think. For 25 years, the property issue of the Church of Niguliste could not be resolved. I considered it right to resolve this issue, not by spending the judicial doors, but by working together between the church and the state. And I consider the decision made correct. The solution will be a problem that has touched our very important historical symbol, and it is also an object of religious and cultural importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U11	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U12	Next, Raivo Põldaru asks Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! On 22 May last year, Rask Advokaadibüroo communicated to the National Audit Office the opinion that it is not quite impossible to stop the Rail Baltic train. And the sooner this happens, the better. The reasons why this train would need to be stopped were only recently discussed, and the days of the week were also discussed in Tallinn Television. I mean, it's probably worth it. The question is why the reasons for stopping the project are not analysed by the government. Opponents are not invited to the table, they are not asked where you have received these or other data, nor compared to your own, in a word, they are not discussing the matter. Scientists usually take highly into account opponents and analyze who is right, for the sake of a better outcome. You have not done this, for example by not ordering an impartial audit, although such proposals have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U14	Thank you for your question. The government of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is implementing what Parliament has authorised it to do. We are in a state where the parliaments of the three countries have ratified the Rail Baltic Treaty. This has also been the wish of the majority in the Estonian Parliament. True, the Rail Baltic Treaty was ratified in Latvia and Lithuania without any votes against.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U15	Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U16	Thank you. We were in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, if I remember correctly, the people of the Ministry of Finance last week who are dealing with the next budget period for the European Union. And in view of the next budget period of the European Union, it said two things, of course, not at political level, with regard to Rail Baltic, absolutely unambiguously and clearly, at the level of officials. Point one: 85% of the European Union's co-financing is not real, it is good if we get 75%. And secondly, the lion's share of our Structural Funds for the next period will be spent on Rail Baltic. I have two questions about this. If we do not really cover 85% of the cost, which was also fixed in the agreement between the three Baltic States, will we abandon this plan? And if all the money we've been given goes to the Baltic, do we still have plans to deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U17	Thank you for your question. The negotiations on funding for the next budget period have not yet started, so there is nothing to be sure about the percentages either. It can be speculation, not relying on reality. We know that most of the amount required for the construction of Rail Baltic should come from the next budget period, which is then 2021 to 2028. The full cost of Rail Baltic route should be 1 billion 345 million for Estonia, of which 230 million are available. And we know that even during the current budget period, additional rounds of requests are likely to be opened to support such infrastructure objects. The government has discussed Estonia's priorities for the next budget period, and true, one of the priorities will be Rail Baltic. Agricultural subsidies, for example, are also a priority. These negotiations are just beginning this year. There was a question of whether Rail Baltic would be built without the support of the European Union. No, the idea has never been on the table for the three Baltic States to build Rail Baltic without the support of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U18	Good questioners! I would point out that the questioner of the main question should quickly register his submission of an additional question, then the order will be correct. Raivo Põldaru, please give me a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. It was just that the last answer I received was so interesting that I immediately listened carefully to the way the Riigikogu took the decision, but all right, let's not make time for it. I'll go on with the money. However, we do not know whether we will receive this money, so everything is on such a level of thought. And usually, construction projects have become more expensive than expected, and this appreciation will have to be paid by our taxpayer. The question is this. After all, it had to be explained to the public that this was a very good project, and for that they hired PR companies for half a million dollars, so they would appreciate how good this thing is. However, should construction work really begin, the trucks transporting the aggregates will certainly break down nearby roads and will also have to build new roads. Opponents say that the money for maintaining the road network and later repairing it is not in the budget at all. It's a cost that hasn't been taken into account, not to mention that...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U20	Please ask me a question! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U21	... air purity data are completely incorrect. What do you think of these incorrect source data for calculating the cost of road transport and also for the costs of cleaning up the road network?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U22	Thank you for your question. Last year, as Minister of Economic Affairs, I sent a written request to all the municipalities whose road network might be under an additional burden in connection with the construction of Rail Baltic, to inform us of roads that should be renovated or, for example, brought under a black cover, so that local people would not suffer because of this additional load of transport and that the road network would be maintained at the same level or better than before construction begins. But, of course, we also assume that quite a lot of construction material can be delivered along the railroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U23	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U24	Next is the right to ask a question on Artur Talvik, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U25	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! The government approved the concept of population protection and the press releases that have emerged in this connection give the impression that it is based on centre-based organisation. But in developing the concept, there was talk of a 'bottom-up' approach, which is then such an old civil defence approach. Which approach is it, and what are the first concrete actions that society as a whole should now take in this concept?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U26	Good questioner, thank you for that question. I would like to start by saying that I would also like to thank the whole Group of the Free Party, because we have debated the concept of population protection at least three times in this Chamber. I also remember my answers when I announced that it would be approved by the end of last year at the latest. True, this approval was on 15 February 2018, but in the first review office we did already in the last year's number. In answer to your question, I will explain that according to the plan, there are ministries or agencies that organise and manage the protection of the population in certain areas. Of course, there is also the question of who coordinates everything centrally, who is responsible for one, the other or the third action. To put it very briefly, it is currently foreseen that the implementation of the concept will be coordinated by the Ministry of the Interior, on the one hand, which will do so in the event of emergencies, and, on the other hand, by the State Chancellery, who will be responsible for activities related to defence-related crises. You also asked how much the concept of population protection envisages an initiative from the root level, or community initiative. I think it's very important. I remember that the last time we discussed this at the cabinet meeting, there was one point attached to the document: that the Minister of Public Administration, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the State Chancellery, will introduce to the local government units the activities they should carry out according to the concept. So local authorities and, through them, local communities should come along. I guess we're gonna get on with this conversation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U27	Arthur Talvik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U28	The question to be clarified: what are the first steps to be taken? The other half of the question is a little bit broader. You have also recently approved the REScEU system set up by the European Commission, which is a pan-European system for the protection of the population. How are these two concepts interlinked and will Europe also provide support for developing the system of protection of the population on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U29	Thank you. The specific actions that need to be taken immediately can be largely grouped into three blocks. First, raising awareness in society. Secondly, we need to establish how we ensure protection in crisis situations. And block three is helping out. First of all, raising awareness. To this end, it is planned to teach young people to be prepared for crisis situations in both primary and upper secondary schools. Training materials must be developed for the population and comprehensive codes of conduct should also be made available for action in different crisis situations. It is expected that this will have to be done by the end of this year. Recommendations will be drawn up for local authorities, people's willingness to crisis and levels of awareness will be identified through surveys. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for this with the Ministry of Defence. As regards ensuring protection in crisis situations, it is planned to develop a location-based rapid risk reporting system by the end of the next year, 2019. We are talking about a situation where people in a particular region need to be informed very quickly. We are more likely to talk about SMS or otherwise mobile phone notification. The Task Force has considered it important to launch a nationwide crisis hotline at the Alert Center. This year and next year, the PBA will develop a comprehensive evacuation plan for emergency and military operations, including mapping of possible places to evacuate, in cooperation with local authorities. And a group of experts will soon start working at the State Chancellery, which will present an analysis to the Security Commission of the Government by the end of 2018, which will serve as a basis for policy choices and the use of common shadow solutions in larger centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U30	Now it's Jaak Madison's turn. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! The development of the information system is undoubtedly an elementary measure and should have been done a long time ago. However, according to the law, local authorities are responsible, for example, for evacuation plans and systems, as well as for allocating resources to ensure that the people who have been evacuated have sufficient supplies of food and drink. As we know, municipalities have very different capacities, especially in addition to administrative reform, when very large regions have become one municipality. What overview does the Government of the Republic have of the ability of local governments to organise, for example, the evacuation of 10,000 people in a crisis situation from a territory somewhere else where basic living conditions are guaranteed until the crisis has ended? What is this capacity now? How well does the government have an overview of the capacity of local governments and what will be done to improve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U32	Thank you. The first questioner, Mr Talvik, stressed the principle of decentralisation. On the basis of the principle of decentralisation, the activities related to the protection of the population are carried out by different institutions within the framework of a comprehensive national defence strategy. The food and water resources you mentioned are handled by the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Ministry of Education and Research. You asked that if 10,000 people need to be relocated from one place to another, what is the capacity of the municipalities to do so? Surely this readiness can be improved. And it is not in my opinion that municipalities should plow some of their fields of work and that of the state. Population protection can only function effectively if cooperation is carried out on a very broad basis. It's obvious that we've got somewhere in which to say, such a power gap. You gave an example of an information system, saying that it could work a long time ago. This option is currently available in larger companies with an explosion risk. But if you ask if we can quickly inform the entire population, I'll say that there is no system. There is no system as operational as we want it to be. It has been tested many years ago, but, as I answered the first questioner, this system, which would allow people in a particular place to receive an operational message, must be developed further. So there are some power gaps. Could we quickly inform 7,000, 10,000, or 11000 people? You rightly said, when you asked your question, that local governments are very different, and that is what they are in that sense too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U33	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U34	Next, Urve Tiidus will ask the Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of Defense! In a world where the flood of information is already completely unfathomable, where the facts and comments are equally free to go around, the Estonian Public Broadcasting, like public information channels elsewhere, such as Finland and Great Britain, bears the trademark of the independent and balanced communicator of information. According to official information, all cable TV channels registered in the business register in Estonia are accessible, and the biggest operators are also said to have no problems. In addition, there is free distribution, which is used by 10% of viewers who use ERR programmes. On a county visit to Ida-Virumaa, however, it was said that in practice there are no channels for national broadcasting in some places, but there is a variety of eastern channels which, to put it mildly, do not excel with balance and independence, on the contrary. How important do you consider the dissemination of independent information? To what extent is this part of national security? When I ask you this, I also mean TV programs such as Sputnik and PBK.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U36	Thank you. This is an important issue, because when we talk about broad-based national defence, informing the population, ensuring the dissemination of independent information is, of course, an important part of it. As regards the display of ETV programmes throughout Estonia, perhaps the biggest problems are indeed with the ETV+ channel. ETV+ operates on a network with a smaller coverage of Multiplex 6 and in certain territories its coverage is relatively weak. Some of them are located in Ida-Virumaa, for example in Kunda. To a certain extent, there is also a problem with Narva, where technically there is already competition between the so-called two television signals. This concerns Narva and the stations across the Narva River. That's really a problem. The Ministry of Defence does not deal directly with this, but the Government is planning to discuss with the Ministry of Culture the allocation of additional funds to ensure the spread of ETV+.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U37	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Secretary of Defense! My question is, rather, what is our current ability to ensure that adequate information is disseminated to the population in case traditional media cease to exist because of, for example, a major cyber attack, the closure of information routes? What will happen in a crisis situation if communication channels do not work? This may have happened repeatedly in history, when a country has been attacked in a certain way. What is our plan of action, or is it even there? I understand that you may not be able to respond specifically to state secrets, but do we have an action plan B in case a hostile force has cut through the possibility of disseminating information to the population through ordinary mass media?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U39	Thank you. As regards ensuring the dissemination of information on TV and radio stations, there are indeed risks that the opponent will destroy all these points. The location of these points, the location of these radio antennas, is not a secret. However, this problem may still arise in the event of a very massive conflict. The probability that all stations can be shut down during some local crisis is extremely low. Rather, the higher risks are linked to a cyber attack. Penetrating these systems and possibly shutting them down through a cyber attack is a considerable risk and all that the government can do together with the Estonian media system is aimed at implementing cyber defence to prevent these attacks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U40	Urve Tiidus also has a very specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U41	Thank you, Minister for Defence, for your previous answer. I would like to ask you this question: do you know that there are closed or very local television programme transmission systems that are outside all independent channels operating in Estonia? In your first reply, you said that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, ETV+'s additional funding would be discussed. That is excellent, but have you also given the government a recommendation on how to improve the dissemination of independent information at all? Now there are a number of questions, but thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U42	I have to admit that I have not dealt with this issue much, and if you are referring to some kind of closed network, I would like to ask you about it. I don't know if I can do that. But, of course, there is a great interest in Estonia in ensuring that the information tools are as free as possible. At the same time, it must always be taken into account that our eastern neighbour is making efforts to prevent the spread of independent information and to make his propaganda through all these channels.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U43	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U44	Mart Helme will ask Prime Minister Jüri Ratas next. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The "Estonian Republic 100' logo is known to overlap more than 90% with the 25th anniversary logo of a skateboard producer company in the United States. My question is whether the Republic of Estonia, as the subscriber to this logo or the company that made the logo, may be threatened with a fine imposed by copyright law in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U46	Thank you for this question. I've also seen a picture of the logo of this U.S. skateboard company on social media. True, the resemblance is, can't be denied. As far as I know, people were already aware of this when they selected our logo. This logo was born in the framework of the competition and sought a common solution for both the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the 'Estonian Republic 100'. If you ask me if this could be some kind of copyright infringement case, I do not know that such signals have come to the State Chancellery. It may be appropriate to say that 'Estonian Republic 100' logo is the author of Identity, whose work was called 'Year and Balance'. It was created with the idea that the people could use it to celebrate the country's anniversary. The Government Committee approved the principles for using the visual identity of the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia in information media and communication channels of government institutions. In order to implement this Decision, the Secretary of State also issued a corresponding guide on 28 December 2017. So, yes, that is the resemblance, and as I said, it was also known to those who chose this logo. But I don't know that there would have been any legal disputes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U47	Mart Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Having worked for my relatively long life as Executive Director of the Estonian Publishers' Association and also as Director of the Publisher, I have a lot of experience concerning copyright. I know that in such cases, if there are such coincidences or overlaps, and if they are revealed before any text or licence is introduced, a contract will be concluded between the parties. As far as you know, the authors of our logo have signed a written contract with this U.S. company to rule out claims on its side?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U49	Thank you. No, I don't know if there's a contract like this. However, I can state so much that when the jury selected this logo and discussed this similarity, it was a unanimous decision that the similarity would not be disturbed. The reason was that these are very different target groups, which, in addition, are geographically very distant from each other. These logos also tell very different stories. What does that mean? The 'Estonian Republic 100' logo visualizes one side of the age of our country, it has a number one and two zeros, on the other hand, the year of birth of the Republic 1918. It also symbolizes the divorce order: 2018 minus 1918 is 100. In the case of the Presidency of the European Union, our motto was 'Cohesion through balance' and this logo also symbolises balance. If you take the logo of this skateboard company, you can say that it symbolizes the skateboard in an abstract way. As I said, the jury found that these are very different target groups. But there are no direct written agreements that I know of.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U50	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U51	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good Prime Minister! I have to say, first of all, I really like this logo. Of course, it's not a debate about taste, it's usually a fight, but I like the multilevel that you've just talked about. But I am concerned about the decision-making process on matters so important to the state. As I understand from what you're saying, the jury was up to speed and some risk analysis was still being carried out, but they found there was no danger. Or maybe it was just decided that it might work. Can you tell us that these factors were considered in this decision-making process and that the risk was found to be low?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U52	Thank you. You put two versions on the table. One was that there was a serious debate, and the other was based on the word 'or '. I think there was certainly no other version, that perhaps the resemblance would not be noticed and that we would move forward. After all, I replied that the jury assessed this overlap from the point of view of content as well as from the point of view of geographical location and target group. I am convinced that there has been a serious debate. Was I there myself? No, I wasn't. Perhaps it is also appropriate to say here that design samples intended for users and instructions for adding logos to information media are found in the style guide to the visual identity of government agencies. The use of the 'Republic of Estonia 100' logo must be in accordance with the rules for using the logo. Companies, including the private sector, can use the 'Estonian Republic 100' logo after coordination with the State Chancellery. No invoices are made by the State for the use of this logo. Companies using this logo have been asked to support the 'Estonian Republic 100' events in various ways, and as far as I am concerned, the applications of companies are generally accepted. Perhaps a few times this coordination has not been given and it has been said that the link between the event and 'Estonian Republic 100' is either nonexistent or extremely weak.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U53	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U54	Next, Jüri Adams will ask Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U55	Madam Secretary! The Estonian public and the media have had a hot topic for a long time, whether or not there should be a pulp mill coming to the Emajõgi River. I would also like to point out that in recent years there has been a tendency in Estonia that it is quite difficult to conclude from the names of the institution what the particular institution is dealing with. Does the authority named "Ministry of Economic Affairs" have any connection to this issue? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U56	Thank you. As this is a major project, it is likely that all public authorities may have a certain impact on the completion or start-up of the pulp mill at some point. It is important to us that the Estonian economy grows. And when we think about how it can grow in such a way that the raw material is more deserving in Estonia and is not taken out of Estonia as the cheapest raw material. For example, the price of one cubic metre of birch paper is approximately EUR 31, but if this same amount of pulp was produced, the price on the world market would be EUR 138. The Ministry of Economic Affairs supports such an increase in added value. In order to answer you how the duties of the pulp mill between ministries are divided into special planning has already been initiated, I say that the Ministry of Finance has the management of the entire project, including strategic environmental impact assessment. The Ministry of the Environment shall coordinate the strategic environmental assessment. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has such a supporting function for the time being, but if the location where the plant must come is chosen, we must, of course, also stand by ensuring that the plant is provided with the necessary communications. As all production goes out of the country, we expect it to go out of the country along our railways.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U57	George Adams, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U58	Thank you! Madam Minister, this is how I understood that the role of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is only supportive and the decisive role is either, let's say, the Ministry of the Environment, led by businessmen, or our so-called super ministry, the Ministry of Finance. If so, where will this decision be made? Is there any way that the role of the Ministry of the Environment can tilt this decision in some direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U59	The Government of the Republic initiated the drafting of a special plan by the State last year, namely on 12 May. And four things were decided upon when it was initiated. Firstly, the State is interested in the location of the plant. Secondly, the most suitable location will be found in Tartumaa or Viljandi County. It was also decided that if the plan were to start, the infrastructure needed for the plant would also be planned. And the decision taken last year also launched a strategic environmental impact assessment. We are now in a situation where a special plan has been initiated and the Ministry of Finance is indeed for this. The draft plan is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and the starting points of the plan and the intention to develop an impact assessment are to transport it, as is the case with all national special plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U60	Jürgen Ligil has the right to ask an additional question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U61	Thank you. Madam Secretary, I will also ask you about the implications of your ministry. You must have a stronger connection to the infrastructure issue. Do you have any information on what was asked earlier today by the Secretary of Defense? I mean that there are regions and networks in Estonia where public television, including ETV+, does not reach. I am thinking not only of a weak signal in the free stream, but also of nets, where Russian channels are also shown, but not of Estonian channels. Do you have any information or good ideas about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U62	Thank you for your question. This question is very appropriate because the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications certainly has information on it. But I must say that we have two ministers in the ministry, and my colleague Urve Palo is responsible for communications. And since I am not specifically prepared for this question and have not been able to ask my colleague for more detailed information, I cannot give you a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U63	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U64	Next, Ain Lutsepp will ask Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question is based on the National Defence Development Plan 2017 Quote: 'In the implementation of the development plan, the contribution of ministries and their governing bodies is important in order to develop the capabilities identified in the development plan and to carry out other development tasks. 'There are peak abilities and basic abilities that are not directly under the Ministry of Defence. While planning a specific capacity needs to take into account the specificities of planning work in the area of government of different ministries, the capabilities created must form a set of capabilities in the interests of a comprehensive solution to the threat scenarios, and the decisions on capacity planning are cross-cutting. How has cooperation developed here? These differences in planning exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U66	Thank you, very important question. This cooperation will take place, in particular, through central bodies and central coordination mechanisms under the Prime Minister's authority. As far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, it must be understood that in a situation of war, population protection is not directly the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence because we do not want to carry out this task, but because we are engaged in military activities. The main task of the Ministry of Defence is to provide advice on what tools are needed: for example, which shelters are needed and how the population should be informed. We are also actively involved in drafting the information packages that should be distributed to the entire population so that people are informed of what the state will do. In this sense, our main activity is to provide information. But, of course, if there is a local crisis, such as some kind of chemical release or other peacetime crisis, it is clear that both the Defence Forces and especially the Defence League are actively involved in solving it. But it's all under the direction of the Home Office. The Ministry of the Interior always has operational control of such crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U67	Ain Lutsepp, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U68	Thank you, Mr President. I do not have a specific question; I have a new question concerning the teaching of national defence. The principles of national defence education were established during the preparation of the development plan in cooperation with the authorities. A new concept of national defence teaching was developed and includes internal defence teaching. What role has the Ministry of Defence played here, and how does the Ministry of Defence see its role in conducting national defence studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U69	Thank you. As far as national defence education, including textbooks, is concerned, a new textbook is being prepared. Experts from the Ministry of Defence are also very active in writing it. As you said, the concept of this teaching is that population protection and civil risks are much stronger in the new textbook than in the current textbook. Our work in the field of national defence education, including communication with teachers, is extremely active. We train them, we organise courses that enable them to teach them in the first place. Often these are so-called national defence enthusiasts who do not have a basic pedagogical education. National Defence Studies is voluntary at school, so teachers' frame preparation is basically guaranteed by the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U70	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to broad-based national defence, and I bring up a concept that is quite widely used today in the military field, such as 'precise'. In particular, I would like to talk about precise mobilization, which means that in certain crisis situations we do not need to raise the whole country on its feet. For example, we imagine that, for some reason, we are experiencing radioactive or chemical contamination or a situation that requires intervention by specialists in a particular field, which also relates to the military sector. In the Ministry of Defence, has mobilisation plans also taken into account aspects of 'precision mobilization', or has it been left out for the time being?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U72	Thank you. I can't go into the details when talking about mobilisation, it's covered by state secrets. But I can say so much that the laws relating to this very concept of providing vital services are currently in the proceedings of the Riigikogu and we really foresee the possibility of using vital services providers who work in all kinds of civil institutions during the crisis. If there should be a global mobilisation, or even educational gatherings, which we do all the time, they are not part of the mobilisation. By working in certain positions, such as those in the same telecom companies, they are obliged to deal with what they do every day, i.e. provide vital services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U73	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U74	Given that we have more time, we can also ask a few or three questions in a so-called free round. Arthur Talvik was the quickest. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U75	I have a question for the Prime Minister. We were in the middle of a debate. REScEU is a centre for the protection of the population set up by the European Commission, covering the whole of Europe. How do these two concepts work together and work together? Could it be that the concept of the European Commission goes against the concept that we have developed? Is the money allocated to the REScEU, as we know, to be used to implement the concept of the protection of the Estonian population?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U76	Thank you for that question. We have also been discussing the protection of the population at the very last Councils. Unfortunately, the impulse gave it very difficult, tragic events, such as fires, which were in Portugal and also in Spain. One country needed a very fast, very operationally large area to demonstrate its ability to save people and to extinguish the fire. It has been discussed whether we should not expand this issue so that there is a very operational unit within the European Union that can go to such crises to help with the protection of the population. Whether it would be some kind of powerful technology, such as helicopter-based solutions, or, specifically, the creation of other entities, it is too early to say today. But I have a feeling this has to go on. Is such widespread protection of the population across the European Union foreseen? Yeah, that's what I'm thinking. That was point 1. Point 2 is that, of course, we can be much more operational and powerful when we work together between countries. You also mentioned funding. I promise I'll let you know what the chances of these funds are. I'll be more specific. I have not prepared myself for this subject, and I cannot tell you exactly what these financial limits and application mechanisms are, but I will certainly let you know by e-mail in the coming days.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U77	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U78	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. I have a question for Kadri Samson. We talked before about Rail Baltic and Estonia's involvement in how much it would cost us. We must count at least EUR 200.300 million. But at the same time, a new rotten egg has been laid out in your administration: it is the separation of the Estonian electricity grids from our current system, which is related to Russia, and integration into the pan-European system. I have heard that in this regard, Estonia has to spend EUR 300.400 million. Is this number correct? If this isn't right, what's the right amount? And what is such a high cost in a justified situation where we do not really have any serious problems? However, we are seeing problems in connecting to the European network because we are in the farthest corner of it, the farthest part, so that we may have a decline in the quality of electricity supply as a result of this transition.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U79	Thank you. When we talk about the synchronising process, it will certainly only happen in such a way that our energy security and our electricity supply will improve, not deteriorate. Today, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are part of the BRELL network, which means we are on the same network as Belarus and North-West Russia. We've been on this network for a long time. At present, our TSOs, in cooperation with Poland, are carrying out a study on the conditions under which the Baltic countries can be synchronised with Europe through Poland. The European Commission has also had a brief examination of the version that this connection will be established through the Nordic countries, but it seems more costly on the basis of preliminary studies. Decisions have not yet been made, analysing different ways, different figures concerning corridors going through Poland. This study should be completed by June this year and can lead to further decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U80	One last question. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U81	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! In your answer to me, you proved that the issue of legal continuity is of no consequence to you. You have a wallet and you treat giving money as solving problems: it's like you're starting to solve problems. As far as I know, you haven't even solved the problem of giving money to the church. Maybe this has happened in the last few days. The previous government had a readiness and also had a draft contract on the table. Now, in concrete terms, have you received any criticism from legal experts that the way in which the money was made in December was illegal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U82	Thank you. That criticism has come to me. On the other hand, I have received an assessment from other legal experts, according to which it was legal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U83	Two minutes to the end of Question Time. It would take one minute to ask a question, and ministers would be entitled to answer two minutes, so I will finish today's Question Time. Thank you to the members of the government, thank you to the questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U84	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 6th working week session of the 7th plenary session on Wednesday. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please! There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries, which is why we carry out a verification of our presence. Checking for presence. 77 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 24 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U85	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the Government of the Republic's overview of the stability subsidies granted by the European Stability Mechanism and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Stability Mechanism. I would remind you that, in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act, the discussion on this point will first include a presentation by the Minister of Finance, which will last up to 20 minutes. After that, each member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask an oral question, after which there will be negotiations where the political groups will be able to contribute to the discussion of the topic. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. But now I would like you to present the speech chair to Secretary of Finance, Toomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U86	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have a great opportunity here to wish you all a happy Republican birthday week. I'm in front of you in line with the Fifth Government report on ESM activities. Like my predecessors in previous times, I can confirm that the ESM has effectively carried out its task in front of the euro area. I can also say that Estonia's commitments to the ESM have not increased over time. The ESM has helped to secure financial stability in the euro area and has done so by providing support loans to countries that, due to different problems, could no longer mobilise the necessary funds from the markets. These loans have also been granted on more favourable terms than would normally be possible. Countries receiving grants have saved up to 5% of GDP per year. The sums thus saved have been able to be directed towards economic recovery. At this point, we must not forget the conditions attached to these loans, which have led these countries to organise their finances, to clean up their banking systems and to carry out structural reforms. Upon joining the ESM, Estonia's subscribed capital amounted to 1,302 billion euros, of which 148.8 million euros was paid-in capital. These commitments have not changed over a period of five years. During this period, ESM and EFSF have issued a total of EUR 273.3 billion of grant loans, of which ESM provided EUR 87.83 billion. In view of the repayments made by Spain, amounting to a total of EUR 9,612 billion, and still likely to be granted to Greece under the third programme, the current ESM intervention capacity is EUR 378 billion. Throughout its existence, the ESM has earned income that is directed towards reserves. Nor was it an exception in 2016, when EUR 568 million of revenue was allocated to the reserve, which now amounts to almost EUR 2 billion, by decision of the Board of Governors. Revenue has been obtained despite the fact that interest in recent years has been negative. However, revenue will decrease in 2017. The allocation of revenue to the reserve is the result of the Treaty establishing the ESM, according to which this will be done during the active programme. It is also prudent and protects against possible capital requirements if losses are to come in the future. As has already been pointed out in the presentation of the previous report, today I can also say that the euro area safety net has worked and contributed to restoring confidence, which has been an important factor in ensuring a favourable economic position in the euro area. Ireland and Portugal, which received support through the EFSF, and Cyprus and Spain, as ESM customers, have made good use of this new opportunity and show positive or very positive budgetary and economic results. Yes, not all imbalances have been undisturbed, but they are clearly recognised and all countries are taking steps to eliminate them. The ESM hasn't sat down either. An evaluation of the implementation of the existing programmes has been carried out and the resulting recommendations to strengthen functions and make the various processes more transparent will be pursued. What's in front of the ESM? The day-to-day activities in 2018 relate to the closure of the Greek programme and the post-programme monitoring of Cyprus and Spain. In the case of the Greek programme, there is still a gap in the form in which the ESM security network could be supported. Greece will play an important role in implementing possible debt relief measures. Such a commitment has been made by the Eurogroup in 2016. The ESM is also an important topic for future discussions on EMU. More and more support has been given to the solution already mentioned in previous years that the ESM will be given the role of borrower from the resolution fund as a last resort. How, according to which rules, this would work is still the subject of discussions. Codification of these rules would take place with amendments to the ESM Treaty, which also means the relevant ratification procedure. This single defence mechanism would replace the current credit lines provided by countries, including Estonia. The second line of work for the future relates to the expansion of the role of the ESM, i.e. its transformation into a currency fund. This would mean in particular greater powers for monitoring economic and budgetary policies, for programming and implementation of the programme for problem countries, and for monitoring. It is certainly possible to improve current practice in cooperation with the European Commission. The European Commission has also proposed to bring the ESM into EU law through transnational agreements. In the longer term, this could also happen, but probably not on the basis of a regulation as proposed by the Commission, but by amending the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. According to the Commission's vision, the ESM decision-making process would become more complex by adding the Ecofin level, as well as more controversial. Rather, the European Investment Bank's example could be used to maintain a functioning organisation and be guided by the European Investment Bank's example when it is brought into European Union law. This would also not jeopardise the competences of the Riigikogu in relation to the ESM. Finally, I reiterate that the ESM has carried out a well-managed mission and an executive organisation. We are working to ensure that all these activities continue and develop if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U87	Good minister! Members of the Riigikogu have many questions. The round of questions will be opened by Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U88	Thank you. Once, when the ESM was created, my role was to accept very sharp political attacks, even to go to court. I still get to blame, usually from the EKRE, for selling out the Estonian state. Huge attention was against the ESM. On the other hand, we have made commitments in the IMF, reconstruction banks, development banks. Do you think it is normal and proportionate that everyone goes crazy with the word ESM, but does not pay any attention to the fact that we have similar obligations in other financial institutions? No tragedy is seen in their participation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U89	Thank you. I was in the Riigikogu myself when these discussions took place. Indeed, there were conflicting opinions and fears. These fears and debates were strongly on the agenda throughout the Eurogroup. I know that the German Finance Minister Schäuble himself said when the last aid programme was mentioned to Greece that they too had doubts, but now basically everyone thinks that the ESM has served its purpose. Despite the fears of critics at that time, the ESM has ensured financial stability in the European Union. In the moment, there's 500 billion credit ratings, 378 billion of which are still available. So, in fact, there is a proper buffer for possible new major crises. Fortunately, there are no major crises now. Let us hope that this situation will last for a long time. In this sense, however, the question is correct, that we have made commitments elsewhere, but yes, the Greek issue in particular excites the people. I have realised that when the Greek problems are being discussed somewhere, there is also a great deal of media interest. Perhaps there is a reason for the attitude of the Greeks and how they used the euro grants in the past. That's what people have on their hearts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U90	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am now risking getting a comment from the President on the departure from the subject. But my curiosity is enormous. The thing is, I'm interested in these financial mechanisms and the possibility of asking for a loan from them. I would also like to ask about Greece and look in my diary how we were promised that it would be profitable for us and so on, but I am asking a narrow, lumpy question. We can't get through Latvia. I wonder if the path of finance ministers from Tallinn to Riga and Riga to Tallinn sometimes goes directly or still only through Brussels? That's all I can ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U92	If the point of the question was whether I have been to meet a colleague directly in Latvia, I will say that I have not. We have met him in Brussels and Luxembourg and we have discussed these issues. This time, unfortunately, the Latvian Minister for Finance did not attend the Eurogroup meeting and the Ecofin meeting. There was a crisis in Latvia, and the Latvian Ambassador made a small statement there, where he basically said what we have read in the papers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U93	Ladies and gentlemen, A member of the Riigikogu with his mandate is free to ask whatever he wants. However, the respondent has the right not to respond if the subject deviates from the item on the agenda. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question concerns the proposals made by the European Commission last December, to which you left some room at the end of your speech. How does the introduction of the ESM into EU law and the creation of a possible fiscal union affect national sovereignty? In fact, the beginnings of some kind of assessment in your presentation were there, but is such a skeptical attitude to these proposals clearly Estonia's position and what position could other countries have?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U95	Thank you. In general, countries support this direction by becoming a defence mechanism provider for the banking union, or lender of the last line. After all, in the future, several large banks may find themselves in difficulties at the same time, and then the current mechanism may not be enough. Take advantage of the experience gained with the ESM and give ESM additional functions in the surveillance of budgets and economic policies, in drawing up and monitoring support programmes, and in essence all support this direction. Now yes, the question is how to do this: will we issue a regulation, as the Commission proposes, or will we amend the ESM Treaties? Estonia's position is rather that it could be structured like the European Investment Bank and that it requires a mandate from all countries. This is such a general approach. This is also the position of Estonia and, in large measure, I dare say, everyone supports this direction. Each country has its own little nuances. However, in the long term, EDIS, or the deposit insurance system, is also wanted to be included.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U96	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This report, which has been presented to us in writing and which you have also presented here, gives the relatively positive impression that the creation of a European stability mechanism was the right thing. But in time, of course, everything will change and it is proposed to change the ESM so that there will be a European Monetary Fund at all alongside the International Monetary Fund. Am I right to understand that the government and the Estonian state have already taken some kind of position on these proposals by the European Commission? And when could this new European currency fund come next to the International Monetary Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U98	Yes, the EFSF would, in essence, become similar, following the example of the IMF, or the International Monetary Fund. It is planned to move in this direction, and such views have in principle been accepted by our office. I told Andres before.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U99	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U100	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Your report shows that the administrative costs of the ESM amount to 54.1 million. That's a considerable amount. As I recall, several hundred bureaucrats work in the ESM. Do you think it is inevitable, practical and justified to spend such an amount on administrative expenditure? If not, has the Government of the Republic of Estonia made any proposals to reduce this amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U101	Thank you. If you look at these sources of income and the sources of expenditure, you can see that interest on the loans was received by the income side of EUR 684,2 million and that a profit of EUR 287 million was generated from the sale of securities in the investment portfolio. The cost sources were interest payments on issued securities of EUR 525,9 million and administration expenses of 54,1 million. I'm gonna be honest with you. I'm not going into that $54.1 million like I haven't gone in. We are also represented in the Board of Governors by our Deputy Secretary-General, and if I wish, I can ask that this amount be specified. But separately, we haven't talked about this in the office.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U102	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U103	The ESM is the result of a transnational agreement and the report clearly shows that progress is still being made towards incorporating the ESM into EU law. Tell me straight: have you had any discussion in the government about whether you perceive it as another step towards the federal state of Europe? Has there been any mention of this in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U104	Thank you. There has been no debate in this key, as is currently the case. I think the direction that is currently being maintained with the ESM is basically the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U105	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, At the ESM Annual Meeting in July 2017, a number of proposals were made to the executive board on how to organise work more cost-effectively. Did these proposals also provide an analysis to improve the efficiency of the ESM management and the overall organisation? I am also referring to the figures on operating costs referred to by my benchmate when I ask for this. And here is also a proposal for management to increase the effectiveness of the programmes. What programmes are we talking about, and what are these concrete measures that are intended to improve their effectiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U107	Thank you. Individual programmes will be implemented for each country in response to their specific problems. It is precisely these programmes that we are talking about how they will be as effective as possible. It was asked to analyse this in order to make the work even more efficient. It's the same with driving, isn't it? Each meeting points out, for example, that there is too much bureaucracy and considers that it should be reduced in order to make governance more effective. Similarly, various other general recommendations have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U108	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U109	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! As I understand it, you have, in principle, already approved the creation of a European Monetary Fund. It will be headed by a future European Minister for Finance, who will at the same time be Vice-President of the European Commission. I am asking about this European Minister for Finance. Will you become the same official as Albert Norak, the Minister of Finance of the Estonian SSR, who communicated with the Minister of Finance of the Soviet Union? Instead, it will be the so-called European Minister of Finance. Is this institution of the European Minister for Finance the first swallow on the rest of the 'European ministerial list'?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U110	Thank you. Estonia does not support the establishment of a European finance institution. We have also said that this is one thing that we do not support.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U111	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Chapter 2 of the report concerns the evaluation of both the ESM and the EFSF programmes. It also sets out six specific recommendations that should be followed and improved. It also states that proposals are expected to improve the effectiveness of the programmes and how to make their preparation clearer. That's my logical question. Estonia is an active participant in these programmes. What proposals have the Government of the Republic made in view of our understanding of increasing the effectiveness of the ESM? If we have not made proposals, is that the plan? Is that what it's meant for?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U113	Thank you. No concrete proposals have been made at government level. But, as I said, substantive work is taking place in the Board of Governors. Countries at this level will analyse the content in favour and make technical proposals. If there were any big proposals, I'm sure they'd come through the office, but it hasn't been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U114	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! The report submitted to the Riigikogu states, among other things, that Estonia's guarantee obligations relating to Estonia's participation in the European Stability Mechanism are reflected in our sovereign debt calculation. Can you tell us how much of the ESM-related guarantee obligations represent as a percentage of our sovereign debt?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U116	The current situation is that participation in the ESM does not affect the general government budgetary position. This is a financing transaction. However, there is an obligation for EFSF in public debt and this is EUR 611 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U117	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, There are 378 billion left of this fund's existing capabilities, as it says here. But now that the role of the Fund is extended and the IMF share will decrease in the future, how will this remaining capacity be sufficient to cope with a situation where liquidity aid is needed by larger countries, such as Italy. What will happen if a larger Member State needs liquidity assistance?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U119	Thank you. In theory, any such speculation is possible because it is known that the share of Italian non-performing loans, i.e. bad loans, is around 25%. At the same time, Germany is the largest payers in the ESM with 30%, France with 20% and Italy with almost 18%. At the same time, several countries have partially repaid the grant loans granted to them in the past because they consider them to be very expensive. Everyone has received these loans under different conditions; all loans are subject to some kind of reform. I dare say today that the credit capacity that the ESM currently has is enough to cover nearly 380 billion. Looking at the current state of the economy, and also at the perspective, this cannot be said for sure, but the loss of ability is not so much feared. But it is certainly the view that this good situation, where the economy is growing in all countries, should be used to clean up as much as possible its portfolio of non-performing loans and to increase buffers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U120	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U121	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! The report states that Estonia considers it important for the ESM reforms to allow Member States to control decisions affecting national responsibilities. Can you specify what control mechanisms we are talking about and what you fear will be changed? Have you made your own proposals and, if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U122	Yes, the Commission has come up with its proposals and now the countries are looking at what they like and what they do not like. Today, Estonia has a commitment of 1.3 billion. This is paid-up capital, i.e. EUR 148.8 million, and the capital to be recovered was EUR 1,15 billion if it were to be needed. There is no obligation to come to the state of Estonia over this amount. The point is that if the ESM treaties are to be amended now, it will in any case require the support of all national parliaments. And it's a longer process. In creating the ESM, we also had very heated debates here in the Riigikogu and many people understand very well that these debates can start again. In many countries there are elections ahead, and there is the election of the European Parliament. That makes this subject a little bit more complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U123	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U124	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! How will the relationship between the European Monetary Fund, European countries and the International Monetary Fund change now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U125	Thank you. I think that basically nothing changes, because there is good cooperation with the IMF right now. Yeah, maybe there's a little bit of a difference of opinion on some things. However, if, for example, in the case of the Greek aid programme, the IMF has taken a slightly different view than the heads of the ESM, this does not mean that cooperation would be affected in any way. So I believe that the spirit of cooperation remains more or less the same as it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U126	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the case of a government report, we have the right to ask a question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U127	Thank you. We have had a Minister of Finance who once claimed that participation in the ESM is a useful investment for Estonia. This money may be seen as an investment, but the problem is that this investment will not generate revenue and that money will probably never be recovered. In addition, the value of this amount will decrease due to inflation, and in about 50 years it will become zero, all the more so as the European Central Bank will pursue annual inflation of 2%. Article 3 of the Treaty establishing the ESM provides that aid shall be granted to countries in difficulty where this is strictly necessary to ensure the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. It is clear that the financial crisis in Estonia would never threaten the financial stability of the euro area. Is the ESM still useful for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U128	Thank you. Yes, it states that stability support will be provided if the financial stability of the euro area is compromised, as well as that of the European Member States. If it is seen that some public finances are facing a crisis, then they will go to help because we are addressing all the Member States in the European Union in a single key. I dare say that it is precisely because of this one key that we have actually won everything in this common monetary union. This is due to the general confidence in the euro area, the euro. It is clear that the crisis in some Member States may ultimately cost much more than the loss of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U129	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Ligi would like to speak first on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U130	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! The ESM is a little personal to me, it can't be helped. And I guess there's a question about pointing a finger at me, not mentioning my name. I have defended Estonia's right to defend myself from the financial crisis, which was a European thing in the recent past for hours. The debt crisis, which broke out in those countries that lived in debt, also created our economies very strongly. We all suffered a great deal of damage. And in that sense, it was extremely amazing that such a principle needed so long to be protected and that so far there is still a word that I have once said with full knowledge and which life has only confirmed. The ESM is a self-defense tool for the euro area as a whole and for each of its members. It is very strange that not even all the members of the Supreme Court who wrote strange differences of opinion were, in essence, in their poetry form and were highlighted as witty. I cannot suggest what the result would have been if this decision had not worked. Economic damage to the whole of Europe would have been immeasurably greater than the guarantees given to this fund. And in any case, these are guarantees, and this small financial allocation of core capital is considered to be an investment, but I have never called the goal of obtaining interest, whether or not we can get it to be like our interest. No, it's not! As regards the provision of the money and guarantee provided by the ESM, it had to be said that this is not the irrecoverable aid that we are providing to the Member State affected by the crisis, but that it is the placing of money in European stability. The interest received is primarily economic stability and higher GDP. That's the way it is today. It is actually disproportionate that we have to discuss the annual report on participation in the ESM regularly as a separate item on the agenda. We haven't done that for any financial institution. That kind of hysteria hasn't been fired up otherwise. I hope that, in the course of this debate, those former critics, too, would have listened a little bit to the Minister for Finance, who has consistently delivered a calming message. Hopefully, it will be realized that hunting up this kind of hysteria again is unfounded. If I go to the website to argue with one of the EKRE members here, there was a question from EKRE, right? Then there are dozens of crazy people who start taunting that you see, gave away billions and something like that to Greece. It's so stupid and vicious that the whole party really should be ashamed of it. In fact, the party should convince its constituents that it does not have to be against everything. Rather, it is worth developing debate and courtesy in their voters. You don't have to call people names, you don't have to get scared. Estonia has made good money allocation, Europe has made good money allocation, and the ESM was one of the factors that actually allowed us to put a stop to the crisis. Speculators, if that word can be used when talking about the market, the securities market is the place of speculation, they have received a signal that the situation is actually secure and European countries can be trusted as debtors. In this sense, we made the right decision, and we could stick to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U131	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põlluaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U132	Thank you. I would not have taken the floor if the previous speaker had not, for some reason, blamed the EKRE on this issue, who did not exist at the time, and began to consider the social media to be members of the EKRE. I don't know, I don't think this is a level to come here before the Riigikogu to discuss or defend your former steps and statements that the ESM is a useful investment for Estonia. We know that no advantage came from it. We may have paid out some 150 million and 1.3 billion guarantees directly. Those 1.3 billions are rocking our heads like a sword. It's a risk! We do not know when the moment will come when we will have to come up with these sums and, according to the agreement, in a very short period of time. If we can borrow that money from somewhere, there'll be more interest. Even considering that all this money now paid up will melt to zero in 50 years, it is clear that we will not get anything back from there. It is still extremely strange to say that this is a useful investment for Estonia. When we look at Greece, where our money has gone, we see that the wage level is higher and the pensions are significantly higher than our people. So to wonder that our people are upset, why we are paying for the pillcaring of richer countries than us, while there is no money for our own people's wages and pensions and for various subsidies, it is still extremely cynical of Mr Ligi. There was no obligation to join the ESM. This was not done by a number of European countries and no one looks at them wrong. No one has started to pressure or blame or punish them in the European Union in any way. But Estonia's typical behaviour is that we always agree with everything. Always agree with everything, regardless of whether it is beneficial to us, whether it is necessary for us, whether it makes any sense. We also see this in our foreign policy. We have just heard in the Committee on Foreign Affairs from a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the IMF wants to set up a European Development Bank and Estonia's position is that we support it. How much will our obligations cost us? There is no information about this. If we ask why we still agree, the answer is, of course, that we are not opposed, and this information will come later. But I ask: if the information is such that it is harmful to Estonia and we do not have the point of joining it, but we have already agreed, how will we say at some point that we do not agree? It's exactly the same with the ESM and countless other things. We agree with everything, no matter how harmful or pointless it is for the Estonian state. Such a policy is insane. We must be guided by what is our task and our duty: to stand up for the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U133	The representatives of the political groups have no further requests to speak. We can therefore consider this item to be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U134	The second item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Identity Documents initiated by the Government of the Republic, in which case the Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, will make a presentation on behalf of the Government. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U135	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Identity Documents Act to the Riigikogu. The draft is relatively short, consists of only two paragraphs, and I shall also briefly summarise its content. According to the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act, the period of validity of the digital identity card will be fixed at five years instead of three years, i.e. the period of validity will be extended. The main objective of the amendment is to enable people holding digital identity cards and e-residents to remotely renew their digital identity cards in order to be valid for two years longer than the digital identity cards currently issued for three years. A remote upgrade can be made, for example, from your computer by updating certificates, as you say. I will also briefly explain the concepts that are relatively similar. A digital identity card, i.e. digital ID, is a smart card similar to an ID card, with which you can identify your identity and sign it in an electronic environment. At the same time, it is important to stress that digital ID is not used as a visual identity document or as a travel document. Some 40,000 such cards have been issued so far, of which approximately 16000 are digital identity cards for natural persons and digital identity cards for some 24000 e-residents. It is also quite clear that these same digital identity cards are very common, for example, among medical professionals who need continuous access to the eHealth environment and who use them as a tool on their computers. The extension of the validity of digi-ID covers two operational aspects. First, a valid digital identity card issued before 1 May 2018 shall be deemed to be valid for a period of five years from the date of issue of the document. In other words, any digital identity card issued before 1 May 2018 with a three-year period of validity and a valid digital identity card shall be issued with an additional certificate with a validity period of two years. The card will therefore continue to apply, but it will have an old date of final physical indication. This validity can be verified by the ID-card management tool and the card can also be marked accordingly. Secondly, digital identity cards will be issued after 1 May with a period of validity of five years. The amendment has come on the agenda to the extent that technical solutions have developed and make it possible to safely issue a longer-term digital identity card that is both practical and more favourable to the individual. The amendment creates more convenient conditions for applying for and using digital identity card for both Estonian residents and e-residents abroad. In order to characterise the draft, there is still so much cost savings for both the person using the digital identity card and the state. First, the person must renew the card much less frequently and thus pay the state fee much less frequently. For 40000 cards, the overall cost of people is EUR 4 million, and this concerns e-residents in particular. The law is designed to enter into force in s. a 1 May, when the Riigikogu has processed this draft and adopted it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U136	Good Minister, members of the Riigikogu also have questions for you. First Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U137	Good manager and good minister! Excellent initiative, Mr. Minister of the Interior! About EUR 20000 for development costs and EUR 12249400 for public revenue just a real achievement! But do you have any plans to place this 12 million? It would take 14.5 million for rescuers to get a normal salary, so they would have an average salary in Estonia. Do you have any idea where to put the 12 million that you can make in such a short time and so well? Do you agree with this proposal that this amount should go to the rescuers for a normal salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U138	Thank you. A good member of the Riigikogu, you know very well that the state budget does not come up on the basis of such principles that if something is released, then it goes, say, to a targeted expense. However, this certainly does not mean that every amount released cannot be used wisely in the budget for next year. I agree with you here one hundred percent, and I have also expressed my priority in this year's debate on the country's budgetary strategy is internal security, including the pay of rescuers. So, in the same way, I agree with you, but the other way around, it doesn't match the logic of the state budget. But it certainly doesn't turn out to be 12 million pointless expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U139	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U140	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You briefly mentioned that, of course, technology has evolved in the meantime. However, for a moment we come to the fact that, when the current version of this law was adopted, it was probably logical that three years, not five or ten, were agreed as a deadline. Can you tell me why they stopped for three years at the time? What fears have been lost in the meantime, why are we now bolder and offering for five years? And why not just ten?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U141	Thank you. Very good question, but I think the answer is also very good. Yes, technology is evolving. When we talk about a digital identity card, one of its peculiarities is that it's in a continuous range of electrons, but I'm not a specialist in the field of electronics. Maybe the same little microchip that's on it gets the so-called fire and tar more than our usual ID card, which we use mostly when we identify ourselves in some kind of process or subwrite it, it's not constantly a digital tool. However, since specialists have said that we have made it so far with technology that the map is more durable, there is also a proposal to increase the validity of the digital ID to five years. Ten years. By the way, this discussion has also been held in the Riigikogu. If you remember, we only recently increased the period of use of the Estonian passport from five to ten on a joint proposal from all parties here, and it was also discussed that our ID card would be valid from five to ten on a five-year basis. But the specialists responsible for the operation of this map thought that this was not the best idea. In fact, such a change may lead us to upgrade technology, but the same microchip cannot carry it. Five years now, according to specialists, this threshold of pain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U142	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U143	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'll come to the cost. I understand that this legislative amendment will entail two real costs for the state: firstly, development costs of EUR 20000, and secondly, the costs of amending the ID contract, which I did not count from here. My question is about development costs. In several audits, the National Audit Office has pointed out that it is much easier for the state sector to collect higher amounts than the actual costs are worth. Are you sure about that amount? Can you tell me that 20,000 is the amount needed for these developments, or is it in the air?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U144	I think it's pretty hard to get air out of that 20,000, even though there's a lot of zeros in here. In fact, there is quite a lot of work to be done; a whole new certificate update needs to be prepared. We know that the process of preparing a certificate update is also demonstrated by the ID-card crisis, where new certificates had to be prepared for people, a process involving specialists from outside the house, such as the Ministry of Interior Information Technology Centre or the RIA. If we look at the general development costs in the public sector, these amounts have been much higher. EUR 20000 is an initial estimate of development costs. This is where you can only talk about the estimated magnitude and its cost is actually covered by the amounts of the innovation maker, in this case the IT and development centre of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U145	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U146	Good manager! Good minister! Yes, of course I know it's not like you earn and spend. At the same time, there is an idea of a profitable company. I see that under your command the Ministry of the Interior is also becoming such a fat milking cow. 12.5 million one-time law with a one-time respect! But I'm asking you how many more of these drafts the Ministry of the Interior and you are going to come out with, and which will be able to boost the state budget with tens of millions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U147	Thank you. I promise to tell myself that you're a little unfair. First of all, the Ministry of the Interior is definitely not a dairy cow. The Ministry of the Interior is the Ministry of the Interior. There's a big difference. The second thing is: I have been setting up in my area of administration, and I think that previous ministers have also done this, the aim that, if we are to introduce new IT solutions, we must constantly look for internal resources that can be used more wisely, for example, for some new developments. It's a way of saving up somewhere. That's one side of it. But the basis for this change wasn't that we definitely have to make money, christening our teeth. The question is that we will make it more convenient for people to use digital identity cards: for example, for doctors who use it on a massive basis, and for e-residents (i.e. a growing trend in the world). They do not have to take any administrative action every three years, because it is no longer necessary because of modern technology. They can enjoy busy business and the benefits offered by the e-governance for five years, after which technology already needs to be updated. So this is the main factor, the pusher, which has also pushed the Ministry of the Interior to do such developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U148	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Digital identity cards and e-resident digital identity cards have been issued at the end of last year by about twenty thousand. Do you dare to predict whether this figure could now increase in both directions, or could we rather be satisfied that the target has been reached ♪ maybe it will come to e-residents, but the number of digital identity card users will remain roughly the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U150	Thank you. When we talk about what is not just a ministry, but actually one of the goals of the entire IT sector in the country, including the sector that ensures identification, it is an extension of the number of means of identification. The last ID-card crisis also showed that people who used mobile IDs alongside the ID-card were more secure. Mobile ID popularity is rising. This may, to some extent, replace digital identity card, reduce interest in it. At the same time, I know from my Home Office the opinion of the practitioners who use them that digital identity cards are somewhat faster than mobile IDs. So there's both pros and cons here. However, I think that the number of digital identity cards will increase in the future, as you mentioned earlier, largely at the expense of e-residents, but also because of the wider ampouay of possible choices by people. My appeal to everyone in this room, as well as to people in general, is that if you have a digital identity card, whether the same digital identity card we are talking about or an ID-card, you could have a mobile ID next to it. It is precisely the protection of those who actively exploit the possibilities of electronic identification that should be better ensured and the risks grounded.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U151	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. From one of your previous answers, I heard a sentence like that. You said e-residency is a growing trend in the world. Can you give some specific examples of who are the other countries next to us who are still developing e-residency?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U153	No, I meant that applying for Estonian e-residency is a growing trend abroad. That's what I was gonna say. I'm sorry if I had a different impression of my language. I can give a simple example here that the number of e-residents has increased year after year. We have also increased the number of people working at the Police and Border Guard Board to ensure that digital ID is issued safely. There will certainly be an increase every year in the number of countries it is being requested from. But there are different effects. I cannot tell you (I can pass on this information to you later) from which countries the digital identity card or e-residency has been requested. I think all the continents are covered here, only the density is different. A good example is that when Brexit's referendum decision came, the pursuit of e-residency from the British islands increased massively.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U154	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. Rein Randver, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The draft law amending the Law on identity documents 569 was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 12 February, including. In addition to the members of the committee, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, Kristen Kanarik, Head of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Ruth Annus and Legal Adviser Kaspar Lepper and Adviser Ele Russak of the same department participated in the session. A moment ago, we heard a very reasoned presentation by the Minister, including the objectives of this bill. There was also a debate in the Commission on this draft, where the members of the committee asked for and expressed their views. It was asked, as in this Chamber, why, for the period of validity of the digital identity card, it is now only three years, whether the obstacles have fallen away and whether this period could be extended. It was said that it was an innovative approach in its time. At the start of the project, it was not known exactly what it was going to be, and just in case, the period of validity of the digital identity card was set at three years. Today, it is understood that the material and chip of this document also allows the document to be issued for a period of five years. There was also the question of whether the electronic application system for identity cards was lagging behind. It was said that, of course, the e-application environment works very successfully, and hence these changes. They were also interested to see whether instructions and user certificates would be available by the time of renewal, i.e. 1 May. On this basis, it was claimed that a large majority of users already have experience of updating certificates, which was particularly evident during the ID card crisis. It was also asked whether the security risk detected in the ID card chip in autumn 2017 also affected digital identity cards. The answer was yes: digital identity cards were also affected by this security risk. There was also the issue of money, which was also of interest to the members of the Commission. It was said that there was a resource for processing applications and that if the number of applications were to increase, it would be possible to ask for more. The Commission also played a decisive role: it proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by today, 21 February (consensus), to close the first reading (consensus) and to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 March (consensus) and to appoint a member of the Commission as rapporteur (consensus). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U156	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much, Rein Randver. I will open negotiations to the representatives of the political groups, if you would like. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 569. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U157	Today's third item: First reading of the Act on the Amendment of the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Obligation to Leave and No Entry Act (European Return Travel Document) 585. Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U158	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President of the Riigikogu. I am before you today with the draft proposed by the Second Government of the Republic. This is a draft law amending the Identity Documents Act and the Obligation to Leave and Prohibition of Entry Act. In short, the draft deals with European travel documents for return, and the aim of the draft is to bring Estonian law into line with European Union law. The draft has been developed to implement a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. The purpose of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council is to establish a single and secure European travel document for return in order to facilitate the return of illegally staying third-country nationals on the territory of the Member States. Until now, Member States have been able to use the indicative EU single travel document for the return of a third-country national. However, the security standards for this travel document have been inadequate and many third countries have therefore not agreed to accept the document. The Regulation has improved the format, security features and technical specifications of the return travel document and made the introduction of the travel document legally binding on Member States. These amendments are intended to facilitate the recognition of the travel document by third countries and to speed up the readmission procedure. It is important to note that the European travel document for return is not valid until the third-country national arrives in the host country. I will also briefly open the background to the need for a European travel document for return. In general, the principle is that each country issues the travel document necessary for the return of its own national. For example, if an Estonian citizen has lost his travel document while abroad or has become unusable, he or she will be given a return certificate. The purpose of using the European travel document for return is to enable the return and readmission procedures of illegally staying third-country nationals in the European Union to be speeded up. The possibility has therefore been created that a Member State can itself issue a European travel document for third-country nationals staying illegally in a Member State of the European Union once the third country has approved the readmission of that person. If the third country has not recognised the European travel document for return, the travel document for return must continue to be obtained from the post-national representation of the returning person. To date, the European Union has concluded readmission agreements with 17 third countries providing for the recognition of this travel document. According to the Bill, the list of documents to be issued in the Identity Documents Act will be supplemented by a European travel document for return and the competence to issue and revoke this travel document will be conferred on the Police and Border Guard Board. I note that the rules governing the issuing of a temporary travel document remain in force in the Identity Documents Act. A temporary travel document can be issued without the right of return to an alien who leaves or is obliged to leave Estonia if he or she does not have a valid travel document or a return certificate issued by a foreign country. The temporary travel document shall be issued for a period not exceeding two years. A temporary travel document can be issued to a foreign national if the returnee acknowledges this document. The Police and Border Guard Board estimates that about €1000 is needed to obtain the European travel document for return in accordance with the requirements of the Regulation. The expenditure shall be covered by the budget for the estimated cost of the IT and documents of the Police and Border Guard Board. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U159	Three issues have now been registered. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned that, to date, an indicative European Union document has been implemented in principle. Would you please clarify and slightly essentially extend what it still means: how has the return process been done to date?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U161	To date, this has been the case, as I said, that Member States have been given recommendations on what this document could be, but it has caused concerns and problems. As Minister of a country that has recently graduated from the Presidency, I can also say that as a result of the 2015 migration crisis, the European Union has started to harmonise many of its policies precisely from the point of view of how to influence third countries to take back their citizens and those from them who have arrived illegally in Europe. When negotiating with these countries, the issue has been how to get the assurance that a person has passed the necessary procedure in Europe, because with many countries it is a problem that they do not want to accept their own people. One of the demands or elements of these negotiations has been that the European Union acts in a uniform manner when implementing its return policy and also issues on a uniform basis the travel document that has now been accepted by 17 countries. I got that list right here. In the past, there were recommendations on what data should be included in these documents and how they could be issued. A large number of Member States used their temporary travel documents and this also caused confusion in third countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U162	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U163	Good manager! Good Minister of the Interior! Today, the Prime Minister was asked whether the Centre Party was now pursuing the policy of the second republic. When you started your speech, you said you were going to introduce the draft of the second republic. Have the Social Democrats taken the point of departure that the current republic is the second republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U164	Thank you. Well, it should be rewinded right now. I'm in front of you today with the draft submitted by the Second Government of the Republic, which was my idea, because the first one I came here 15 minutes ago. But I commend your observation, and then I disapprove of my use of words. I will certainly make a comment to my advisor, who has helped me put this speech together. The Republic of Estonia is one and only.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U165	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U166	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know that most people who have come to Europe illegally do not have documents. They lie about their name as well as their country of origin, and we do not, in essence, have the opportunity to verify these claims. We also know that hardly a third of those who have been refused asylum have been returned. With this identity card, we give a very large contingent basically false documents with which they can live and stay in Europe without concern. We know that a large proportion of these individuals are not expected to be expelled, but go underground. Do you not think that such a thing is damaging the security of both the European Union and Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U167	Thank you. I am more than certain that any illegal immigration will harm security. I don't even think there's room for debate, because if someone wants to go to another country and be there illegally, that means he's going to break the law. So there is no doubt at all. However, I am not so pessimistic on the basis of the experience I gained from Europe in six months as head of the Council of Ministers of the Interior. In fact, these processes have reversed, for example, the annual return rate is increasing. When we really talked about a third, as you said, at the beginning of the crisis that started in 2015, this rate has now risen to half. I want to say that the European Union has learned very serious lessons from this very year 2015. That's point one. Point two: it is precisely what is important that we can put pressure on third countries to take back their people in order to identify the origin of people. It has not been an easy process. We know that European countries have different historical ties with these same third countries, which has made it difficult to get everyone to a single table. As I said, there are many economic and historical reasons for this, but there are many obstacles that have been overcome today. This same readmission or return document is a good example that things are being done together and that the problem is being tried together. When we talk about how these people are being identified, there are more and more methods. It is one thing to cooperate with these third countries, to influence them in order for them to cooperate. The aim is to identify whether a person comes from one country or another, either through Frontex or using direct links between security authorities and internal security authorities. Yeah, the situation isn't ideal in the world, but it's been better since the year. Why? It is thanks to the fact that the European Union has started to jointly influence these same third countries to cooperate before returning. So it's not a completely toothless situation, although there's still a lot of room for improvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U168	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U169	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Can you please specify the practice in Estonia: how many return documents have been issued over the last five years and how much feedback has been received that they have also been used in a targeted way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U170	Thank you. I'll definitely send you all the detailed numbers. But I can tell you that the success and effectiveness of return in Estonia has been very high. Here is the number: we had 75.2% in 2016 and 89% in 2017. Of course, it is also clear that we are faced with those returns that mostly concern people from the East or also those coming from Asia. There are fewer 'classical' arrivals from elsewhere, especially in southern Europe. But if you will allow me, the exact number of documents that have been issued, I will send you in writing. I have so many numbers here that I can copy you with Xerox later. If I start reading them here, it could take hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U171	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U172	Good manager! Good minister! I read that since 1994, only two of these documents have been issued, and now you're ordering 200. A small adjustment shows that if two are needed in a quarter of a century, there will be 2,500 years. But I'm asking how long the validity of these documents is and where the 200 comes from. Why 200? Are there any forecasts that require much more use of these documents, although the readiness of third countries, as I understand it, is still very low?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U173	Thank you. Once again, I would like to make improvements: in fact, the readiness of third countries has increased considerably over the last few years. Once again, if only a few countries were ready to meet the European Union's common policies and to receive people a few years ago, there are now 17 and this number is constantly increasing. Negotiations are ongoing with the countries where these people come from. When we talk about why it was number two, there were only suggestions before, we used our standards. Now we're just going over to other standards. But the people we send out are always coming to us: almost every day or every couple of days, we get somebody out. If, in the past, we gave them our documents, then now we are going to give the European Union a single document. So I guess 2,500 years aren't supposed to wait for these documents to run out first. And they'll be valid until the person gets home.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U174	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This is, in my understanding, one of the precedents in which the European Union determines in advance which documents we issue. Has there been any signal from the European Union on other documents that any single documents will soon be issued on the basis of a European Union recommendation or regulation? Will one day, for example, our country's passports become such documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U175	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U176	Thank you. I can assure you that it will certainly not change. And I can also assure you that both the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union will simplify the return of illegal immigrants with this step. He's not replacing anything, he's adding one more option to our laws without taking away any other option. The use of such a travel document will certainly be particularly beneficial for Estonia in the future, because we often have no historical or economic ties with third countries. We may have them with our region, here on the east side. At the same time, we also occasionally get illegals who are more involved elsewhere in Europe, and the single return document is much better accepted in third countries than Estonia's own document.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U177	Minister, thank you very much. No more questions for you. Rein Randver will also make a presentation by the lead committee on this agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Before the first reading, the draft law amending this draft law, the identity documents law and the obligation to leave and the ban on entry was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 12 February, including. In addition to the members of the committee, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, Kristen Kanarik, Head of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Ruth Annus and Legal Adviser Kaspar Lepper and Adviser Ele Russak of the same department participated in the session. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard, the Minister gave a very thorough overview of the draft, including its objectives. There was also a debate on the draft in the committee, and I will bring some thoughts to you about this debate. So far, in line with the Council of the European Union, we have made use of the recommendation of 30 November 1994. However, our country, or Estonia, has an increasing interest in using the European travel document for return. The reason why we should go with the European Union together is also because we do not have many representations in third countries to deal with them. At present, it is the case that, if a country fails to fulfil its obligation under international law to take back its own citizen, the coercive mechanism does not in fact exist even if the document has been recognised and the individual is the subject of a readmission decision. Of course, there was also a debate in the Commission, where a completely different message was stressed that, from a security point of view, perhaps there should be more concern about the counterfeiting of visas and entry documents. In response to the question of why a European Union regulation is needed for all Member States, it was nevertheless stressed that, of course, third countries are easier to reject a single Member State and not to recognise its temporary travel document, but it is much more difficult for them to do so on a single European travel document for return. Certainly, it is also important that in reality, the Police and Border Guard Board has already ordered document forms and we want to get them to work quickly after arrival. The Regulation was adopted in 2016 and entered into force in April 2017. It also asked why the process of implementing the Regulation has taken so long. The Commission explained that the implementation of the regulation is not a burning issue for Estonia, and this speed depends on Europe. This document will only have effect once the European Commission has reached the point where third countries accept this single return document. And, as the Minister said here, he also said in the Commission that during the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, there was no opposition from any Member State to the European travel document for return. I am now also talking about the Commission's decisions: it was proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 21 February, including consensus, and that the first reading be closed (by 9, against 2), it was also proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 7 March 2018 and that the rapporteur be appointed here (both by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U179	Andres Ammas, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U180	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! The question was inspired by the penultimate sentence of your report, where you said that some members of the Commission were opposed to the completion of the first reading. Did they also motivate why they opposed us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U181	Thank you for your question. Rather, the debate tended in this direction, as it turned out from the questions and answers in this Chamber, to see why the European Union is telling us, as a single rule, that we have to do this and that regulation in the case of one or the other. However, given the substance of the draft, it is still that we can talk to the 27 Member States about a uniform travel document for their return. For Estonia, this certainly means more strength than we should be doing it ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-21_U182	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to start negotiations? No, it's not. The commission's proposal, as you have heard, is to finish the first reading of draft 585. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 March. We'll meet in this very hall tomorrow at 10:00 and then we'll get back to work. Closure of the sitting at 3:31 p.m.
