ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U1	Hello and Happy Europe Day, everyone! Question Time begins as usual with a check-in. Please! There are 31 comms present, no 70. As respondents to today's Question Time, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt and Minister of the Environment Siim Kisler are in front of you. Nine questioners have been registered. This means nine subjects, which give the President the opportunity to submit a specific or supplementary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U2	The first questioner is Enn Meri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! Granul Invest plans to make a wood refinery also in Imaverre. It's been said at first that it's a demo plant. But you can assume that if the factory is finished and the processes are working there, there will be a real factory. I have two questions about this. The first question: will there be a new special plan? And the second question: wouldn't it make sense to have an independent analysis of how much forest resources we have?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U4	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioners! I'm going to start answering that question a little bit more broadly. I think that any cooperation between the private and public sectors in the area of the business and investment climate is important. I am, of course, talking about regular cooperation, which could always be proactive when viewed by the public sector, in order to attract investments in Estonia, to create an entrepreneurial and economic environment in Estonia where they want to invest and where they want to implement new solutions. I would certainly like to acknowledge the work of the honourable Riigikogu here, but also, for example, our Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, Urve Palot, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Sven Mikser, who are actually making an effort to do so, whether through the EAS or the External Action Service. And I have even made a lot of such meetings to introduce Estonia more as an investment region. Now that we're talking about your question of whether we've been considering making a talk about, I understand, the special plan of the Granul Invest, no, we haven't considered it. Your second question was whether an independent study on wood pulp or forest use could be carried out. I am absolutely convinced that the Ministry of the Environment is constantly analysing whether further research is needed. If you have to, I don't think you're gonna get a hand on anyone. I have to say so much more that, as I know, there has been no official request, letter or proposal from the government, including me. I am only familiar with the subject through discussions in the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U5	Enn Meri, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U6	Why is this impartial study needed? Still because there are a lot of different figures: 6 million, 10 million and 16 million cubic metres. I really think that this issue should be examined.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U7	Thank you. I understand that a good questioner is concerned, but when we say that our principle is always that we cut less than the increase, then we have to move on from this title or the first sentence. The question now is what we are comparing to ensure that data is comparable. Of course, here is also the question of whether we are counting Finnish forests into forest matter, for example. We know that there will never be a forest product or a raw material that we can really adopt. On the other hand, we have to ask whether the young forest is there or whether we compare only the ripe forest with what we cut. So in this sense, in my opinion, the discussion is open in any case, no one wants to close it. But I think the general principle must be that forest management is as sustainable as possible, environmentally friendly. In the case of forest management, we must not only talk about nature conservation but also about economic aspects. I am convinced that the Ministry of the Environment, including the Minister of the Environment, and RMK, in any case, according to their better knowledge, are working for all of this. But I think we could discuss it, keep the debate up until then, whether we always have to do a big, powerful clear cutting, or see other cutting possibilities, after-time cutting, or some other cutting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U8	Andres Herkel will continue with his question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! No one here is questioning the need for investment. The question is whether the government gives a very clear advantage to an investment and how this lobbying works. But my question is rather focused on what you prefer in a so-called entrepreneurial philosophy, in a world-view: is there a large plant that would exhaust all of Estonia's resources and even more, or many small factories, perhaps at a technologically better level and more flexible and distributed production?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U10	I thank you for this philosophical question. I'm sure it's very interesting to debate. What do I prefer? I prefer a very simple thing. The fact that we can make one of Estonia's most important natural resources, for which timber and even the Estonian forest are certainly also Estonian folk wisdom, tells us that the forest is an asset of the poor man, to deserve this raw as much as possible. I prefer that we really be able to produce final products of the highest possible value from the Estonian forest. Is it one factory, or five, ten, or 20 plants, as was the case with your question? I think the more high-tech companies in Estonia that deserve forest, including timber, the better. I don't think there's ever going to be any way that now we're only looking at one particular private limited company or a public limited company and we're not looking at the others. I don't think that's right. What I want to say is that when we talk about this, I understand that the undertone of your question was the example of Est-For Invest, which we have done, the strength of Estonia is its flexibility. No one can make any promises outside their competence, but I certainly consider it important to discuss certain issues and that the public sector is still pro-active, business-friendly, supportive of the business environment. I do not think that the government or the public sector should be sitting next to each other, let the private sector deliver itself. There must be cooperation here, and the public sector must certainly feel elbows.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U12	The second question is asked by Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U13	Thank you. You have so far ridiculed the EKRE's request to restore control at our borders. The promise now to fight the illegal use of labour more seriously and more effectively, i.e. compliance with the law has been delayed for at least a year, actually more. As early as last year, the police found that the use of illegal labour has tripled. This delay, which results in more than 10,000 employees in Estonia may be illegal, and some companies are already in the routine of using illegal labour, proves that you are not familiar with what is going on in the administration of your ministry or have not wished to ensure compliance with the law. How do you explain the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U14	Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, will answer questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U15	Thank you for the clarification that I will answer this question. Honourable questioner! First of all, I would like to say that the preparation of this draft law, which strengthens the provisions relating to illegal employment, is precisely the result of this need. Over a year and a half, we have greatly increased the number of joint raids of the Police and Border Guard Board, the Tax and Customs Board and the Labour Inspectorate for objects and really identified a multiple increase in the use of illegal labour, as you rightly said. We see that the current sanctions are not working, there are few warnings. The Ministry of the Interior and I, as Minister of the Interior, are very well aware of the developments in this area. The use of illegal labour has started to explode in Estonia with wage increases, i.e. over a year and a half to two years. And that is why we come up with a number of improvements, one of which is certainly an increase in sanctions. At present, the maximum fine for illegal labour is EUR 3200. However, the use of one illegal worker, if no tax is paid for it, will cause the State damage to EUR 3500. So it's better for the same company to pay the fine. What am I saying? All these measures are very timely, including exactly at the same time that we are also making certain relaxations for the use of temporary labour, for example, on our construction sites.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U16	A question to be specified from Henn Põllea.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U17	Thank you. As I understand it, the Ministry of the Interior also has no idea how much so-called temporary agency labour has been brought in Estonia from abroad, including from third countries, and how much migrant labour has arrived in Estonia with work permits issued by other European Union Member States. This is once again a matter for your administration. The question is the same: for what reason have you still not wanted to deal with this issue, and how will you explain the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U18	Thank you. I will also explain exactly that I have been active in this matter. The number of raids that have been undertaken by potential employers using illegal labour has been significantly increased. Once again, I would like to stress that legislative changes are being made to one rule of law when it is evident that existing laws are no longer in a position to contain the situation. There's no point in going under the law, using the resources available. And as you pointed out, temporary agency workers are certainly being used, which may also be legal, i.e. I would not overwhelm as if all temporary agency workers were illegal in some sort of scheme. One of the changes that will come before you in the near future is that temporary agency workers also need to be registered. In this way we can so-called rewind the country of origin to real economic activity: if there is no economic activity there, it is actually illegal to rent this person to Estonia. I would like to emphasise one more thing that certainly led to a statistical increase and which we all have to deal with, particularly here in Eastern Europe. Last year, when Ukraine received a visa-free regime, which we fully supported, it also began to be exploited in order to smuggle the labour force here illegally, as they say. So that's the grayest tone of this thing. And to see if these people have been illegally rented here, for example, they have to be registered. This requirement has never existed in our laws as in the relevant European directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U19	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, the fact that visa liberalisation leads to illegal and non-illegal immigration is not news to anyone. I recall that a few years ago, a number of political parties in this Chamber also strongly supported visa liberalisation with Russia. But it was such a theme extension. Now, an official of the Ministry of the Interior wrote a counter article about Henn Põlluaasa. Henn Põljaas summed up the numbers about the catastrophic situation we have regarding migration, including illegal migration. The official claimed that there is no demographic crisis in Estonia and everything is fine. We have made our calculations and found out that nine non-citizens have arrived in Estonia for one returned Estonian citizen. So in essence, Estonia's balance of migration is one against ten. In this situation, are you still convinced that there is no need to introduce border guards or document checks at our borders?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U21	Thank you. I would like to stress once again that the border between Estonia and the European Union is controlled and controlled very effectively. As far as the internal border is concerned, if you mean, for example, the Estonian border with Latvia, Finland or Sweden, I certainly do not support your idea. I think that would be a very clear overdramatisation of the situation. I can't possibly agree with the numbers one against nine either. If you also calculate those temporarily employed who have to leave in accordance with the current law within nine months and whose possibility of temporary employment is extended to the year when you adopt the Aliens Act introduced today, these numbers are completely different. The return migration of people of Estonian origin or Estonian citizens has become positive since 2017. This information comes from the most recent database in Statistics Estonia. Therefore, if we were to close these borders now, we would strike a terrible blow on our economy. I can give you an example. Europe would lose tens of tens of billions of euros by restoring the Schengen borders. It is certainly not worth it for people to feel, in addition to the restrictions on their normal mobility opportunities that we have experienced in Europe over the last 10 to 15 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U22	I will stop discussing this issue in this Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U23	Next topic: The first question is Jürgen Ligilt, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U24	Mr. Prime Minister! The long-term and strategic nature of governments' views is reflected in the country's fiscal strategy. Last year, when economic growth was accelerating, the risk of overheating was discussed and it was convinced that the budget had to be made with a surplus. You said then that the economy must be heated, the budget must be nominal and structural, and you said that it was responsible. This year, the economy is somewhat the opposite: it tends to cool down and the future is not so bright. Now you're saying that when the economy cools, you need to cool it down, and you're saying again that it's responsible. Tell me where your long-term view and strategic thinking are.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U25	Thank you, good questioner! In this sense, you are absolutely right that the country's most long-term fiscal policy view is indeed its fiscal strategy. This time we are talking about the country's budget strategy 2019 That's point one. Point two is that I am with your concern, if that is your concern, in any case. We have to work every day to see higher growth than it has been in the last six-seven years. I think that growth of 1% or 1.5% should certainly not satisfy Estonia. For Estonia, in any case, I believe that economic growth can be achieved, which is 4.8%, 4% or 3.5%. I will answer your question now. I understand what you're asking. Why did the government say that a structural balance and even a surplus in 2022 were important for it when it made the country's budget strategy? What's changed? After all, the evaluation of the Ministry of Finance has changed, where you yourself have been on duty. When we did the country's budgetary strategy last year, the estimate was that our GDP gap was negative. It was true then that we also had to put more finance into the public sector in order to boost the economy. At the moment, the assessment made by the Ministry of Finance is clearly such that the GDP gap is positive. This is, after all, a fiscal principle that must be respected, that the public sector must now really take a step backwards with regard to certain activities. I am very pleased that the government has been very operational and that these decisions have been taken during the debate on the country's budgetary strategy. This shows that there are no dogmas, we must take fiscal policy steps according to the market economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U26	Jürgen Ligi, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U27	Thank you. No, my concern is that you're heating up the economy when it's in danger of overheating and cooling when it gets cold anyway. Don't use words you don't understand! But I'm still trying to ask you a little bit more simply about the budgetary strategy or the long-term nature of your strategic view. The hospital network is one of the most strategic things. You're gonna go to a branch hospital, and you're gonna allow this emergency money to form a hospital network. You say that the government can give money from its reserve in order to shape the location of services in Estonia. Tell me where there is a strategic view here, and how do you justify it to your health minister, who just said that there is probably a need to recapture the departments. You're flying at a branch-hospital level and allowing it money illegally. Where is the strategic view here, and what does the Minister of Health think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U28	Thank you very much. First of all, about the risk of overheating. I say once again that the country's budgetary strategy is based on the assessments made, in particular, by the Ministry of Finance. Of course, we always look at external assessments. However, as far as the risk of overheating is concerned, I stress once again what the situation with the RES was last year: the GDP gap continued to be negative and did not satisfy the government. What we really wanted was for us to see economic growth. Since this year's GDP gap is positive, of course certain fiscal policy steps are also needed. I understand that you are already going to very specific things in the country's budget strategy, which I welcome. One of the principles of this country's budgetary strategy has indeed been very simple, and the budget strategy is being drafted in a very responsible and sustainable manner. That's what the government has done. If we look at the tax burden, we can safely say that the tax burden will remain at around 34%. If, for example, we look at debt reduction and debt is foreign, then we can see that in 2017 our debt level was 9%, but in 2022 it is 5.2 to 5.3%. So the level of debt is decreasing. Now, very important areas are covered in the budget strategy. Salvage to rescue officers, police officers, educators, cultural specialists and veterinarians with higher education has been one of the guiding principles of this budget strategy. Next: €117.198 million in investment in digital development to support the IT sector. But I think we have a different understanding when we're talking about maternity departments. I will certainly not say in front of the honourable Riigikogu what the medical level is somewhere. If the hospital councils say that they can maintain medical standards, but it requires additional resources, then of course I'm ready for the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U29	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister, another example of you where you do not answer the question of a good colleague directly. But yesterday, too, there was a debate in this Chamber on the budgetary strategy, and we received an honourable Minister of Finance. In fact, we could close our eyes in some places: the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are talking about a tonality. And its negative side is related to the fact that you said again today that we will achieve a balance in 2022. The entire priority of this government seems to be next year's elections when I look at the budgetary strategy. The Saviors said you could raise your salary by 20% at the same time, but next year it'll be zero. Is this responsible planning of the state budget when, in one year, it is as if all positive messages are being pressed together and it is said that the next governments are dealing with balance and other issues? You can't really be responsible for that right now. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U31	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I think it's great when the government works as a team. The fact that the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister are saying the same messages about the country's budgetary strategy is, in my opinion, one of the key features of a functioning government that finds solutions. This, of course, also shows a climate of trust. And this government does not have time to wait one day, especially in the anniversary year of the Republic of Estonia. These issues need to be resolved, and I think it is great that the government has found solutions. Now, you are really wrong, we will not achieve a structural balance by 2022 or 2020. We will already have a structural balance in 2019 (also 2020 to 2021) and in 2022 we will have a structural surplus. When we talk about the nominal position, it is already in surplus next year and it will remain so throughout the budgetary strategy period. In addition, I think it is important to reduce the same debt burden. You're attacking domestic security wage increases here. Of course, this is also my wish for wage increases to be smooth. But what do we do if these salaries haven't been raised in years? In fact, rescue officers have been saying for years that they will no longer come out with a salary of 850 euros, 800 euros or even less. A solution was needed here, and it was a very clear priority for the Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. And I'm happy for that, because it was a step that had to be taken. There's 12% for social welfare, about 20% for rescue and about 10% for police. Or we take IT institutions with a 20% order of magnitude. Veterinarians haven't had their pay rise in years. We had to move on here! Next year, the minimum wage for teachers will be EUR 1250; the same increase will come for cultural workers with higher education. I mean, there was a stagnation, where we needed quick solutions that were made.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U32	The next theme of Question Time is sustainable forest management. Asks Külliki Kübarsepp, says Environment Minister Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U33	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! A month ago, I wanted to ask questions about a similar subject, but because of a sad event, I gave it up. My questions are based on newspaper articles on the protection of private forest owners on 3 April and 4 May. There is mainly a reference that we find it difficult to carry out sustainable forest management when we have phone terrors against small forest owners, they have no protection. Taavi Raadik of the Forest Land Management Company states directly that the balance between small owners and large owners is reasonable and the state should definitely favour small forest owners. Last Friday, Lembit Maamets told Postimees that one possible solution could be an example of Sweden, where the newly purchased land would be set up in a surveyorium. Have you addressed this issue in the forestry development plan and what possible solutions are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U34	Thank you. First of all, the specific answer to the question is 'no' so far the topic of the surveyors has not been discussed since the sale. This issue could certainly arise in the future during the work of the working group, but here we must make sure that freedoms are guaranteed. Putting unjustified restrictions on property cannot be considered because someone has something shorter than someone else, i.e. it is simply not for this reason that anyone's right to use their property should be restricted. But I'll answer more broadly. If a larger and smaller owner is to be opposed, it is information that according to current statistics, we own about 60% of privately owned forest land for private individuals and a smaller proportion for legal persons. The overall distribution is in half: a little over half belongs to the state and a little less than half is privately owned. So there are still tens of thousands of private forest owners in Estonia. And when it comes to sustainable management, the public debate often gives the impression that large owners, who may be partly or wholly owned by, for example, foreign funds, very aggressive foresters or forest managers, are. But it is often these funds that cut less and small owners manage rather as you described, i.e. they buy a piece and immediately cut.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U35	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U36	Thank you. A small comment on this answer: I see a conflict here, because the position of the Ministry and the views of the people through the media do not want to match for some reason. After all, it is claimed that although the price of forest land rose exponentially in 2017, the Auntie Paintings, from whom the land is deceived, receive the price of à la television, they do not receive this real price for the land. Secondly, I would like to highlight the subject of forest renewal. The fact is that forest renewal is already difficult for private forest owners because of the lack of resources, plants. You said so yourself. Have you tried to find solutions here through the forestry development plan and, if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U37	First of all, about this first issue so much that the opinions of ex-people are very different. Very many forest owners' representative organisations have recently also pointed out that people's tendency to sell their property is more influenced by public claims that inspire uncertainty. Unfortunately, the politicians of the Free Party have not been free from this sin either. A strong signal is being given that your chances of managing your forest normally will immediately be ignored, and you will not be allowed to be cut again immediately. It certainly affects people's decisions. This uncertainty should not, in my opinion, be unnecessarily created by owners, especially if it is not based on any rational reasoning, logical, scientifically justified volume numbers, or anything like that. But the issue of plants is really serious. Some time ago, the road to growing plants in Estonia was chosen by RMK, or the state's profit institution, for its own use only. This decision was made to revitalise the private market in order to allow private owners to engage in this business, to engage in a form of enterprise and to create more plants. These investments aren't gonna work, it's gonna take time, but they've been done. We are also discussing whether it would be possible to further support the pre-arrowing of plants from some environmental measures, so that, if any private owner makes this kind of investment, he would receive additional support from the state for this activity. But right now, there really is a shortage of plants on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U38	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll get an analogy with the apartment market. It is well known that there is very clear monitoring and monitoring, which at the price of something sold, and this statistics will ultimately make the principles of price formation very clear. Is there any explanation why we do not have this kind of record of forest land sales transactions? This probably puts a small owner, who is being pressured to sell his forest, in really a bit of a vulnerable situation, he just doesn't know the fair price.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U40	Thank you. Statistics of this kind are quite well available, especially by the private forest federation. I strongly recommend that you turn to Heiki Hepner, for example. He is a very large expert in this field, who consistently provides insights to private forest owners, private forest cooperatives. So if interested, this information will be freely available to all interested parties. More broadly, as to why this price has been rising recently, one reason is certainly the expectation of additional investments in the timber industry. Another reason in the countries of our region as a whole is the years in which climate conditions have been such that in many places it has not been possible to manage the forest, the land has been soft. This applies to Sweden, it applies to Finland, it applies to Estonia. Certainly, the price of timber has been affected even if someone had to work up the forest. And if the price of timber rises , then the price of woodland will increase as a result.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U42	Jaak Madison is asking the question from Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In recent weeks, new talks concerning the European Union's budgetary strategy for the years 2021 to 2027 have become an active focus. One of the most topical issues, which may prove to be a cause of conflict between several Member States, is the conditions that may be set for certain subsidies, i.e. linking them to the rule of law situation. This has led to serious resentment, for example, in Poland and Hungary, whose specific political steps in domestic policy are strongly opposed to the European Commission. Does our government have a position on this? If this question comes to the table, would we support the setting of such conditions for European Union subsidies? What would your opinion be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U44	Thank you. First of all, I am, of course, pleased to wish everyone, including the questioner, a good European day in the context of this issue. But on your question, there were a lot of words like 'in case','maybe there will be' and 'in which case, in future, the position of the government'. My own opinion is as follows. We in the European Union must work to ensure that such exclusions do not occur at all, so that no one starts talking about Article 7 (1) or (2), which would mean that we are taking away the right to vote from someone or imposing sanctions on someone through the budget. I think that the underlying principle or value of the European Union has been another one, so that the countries that come to this union can get positive emotions in this family, that is, the countries are being given, rather than being taken from them. So that's what I think we need to work for. The rule of law is very important to me. This is also a very important principle within the European Union. And the fact that the Commission and Poland are currently working together to resolve this issue must be helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U45	A more specific question from Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U46	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would also like to wish you a good European day, which marks the end of World War II and the occupation of Estonia, and is therefore, to a certain extent, a great day of mourning for us. As far as the budget strategy is concerned, this issue is also strongly linked to yesterday's meeting of the Estonian-Hungarian parliamentary group. Namely, the Hungarian Ambassador to the village of Tallinn was from Helsinki, and the budget strategy was an important point of discussion at our meeting. I certainly recommended that he also take a briefing to find out what your attitude to this issue is and what our message is, above all, to Hungary, which is very strongly opposed to any domestic intervention by the European Commission. The European Commission has grown very fond of interfering with internal policies and adopting statements that clearly violate the principle of sovereignty. So, in your previous answer, did you want to say that we in any case support the principle that Member States cannot be placed under any conditions for receiving subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U47	If you're here to debate, you'll never know what you're gonna read about it in 20 seconds. No, I wanted to say that I believe that Estonia must stand for the European Union to do everything in its power not to exclude one, another or third country from any process. I said that all this preventive work, cooperation and negotiations are, in my opinion, a priority here. You used the expression 'if it comes to the table', but I think we need to be so strong and concrete that we can find compromises so that such matters do not come to the table. And I must admit that I think that Europe has been able to do so recently. I think Brexit's lesson, too, is that unity is really a force when a balance is found. I have been in contact with Hungarian and Polish counterparts and I say that we are all trying to find the best agreement in the next MFF area. In the framework of the Estonian Presidency, it was important to build bridges and find a balance. I, for example, do not feel at the table of the European Council that someone in the European Union is seriously thinking about a new exit. On the contrary, compromises and a common part are still being sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U48	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since the subjects and questions proposed for Question Time do not go automatically to the next Question Time or to the next day, as President of the sitting, I prefer the subjects proposed for today. That is why we are going to the next issue. Asks Thomas Kivimägi, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U49	Mr President! Very dear Prime Minister! I hope that you will feel elevated when I quote you (the more I share your view): 'I think it is a fundamental question whether the government takes local governments as a partner or as a relationship between such a superior and a subordinate. Today's government takes local governments as partners. These decisions are made by the public transport centres set up by the local authorities. Whether they are tightening the line, whether they are extending the routes, whether they are making any new routes, or whether they are really changing the ticket price up to the point of being able to offer free public transport. But these decisions are not made either by the Prime Minister or by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. However, last week it turned out that the reality is quite the opposite: if public transport centres do not decide as the Minister wishes, they will be partly deprived of public money and even more so, they will have to pay for their part. Why have you let your opinion of every right and respectful self-government be passed over?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U50	Prime Minister, before you answer, I have a reply to my colleague. For all of the following subjects, we will also act exactly as an ad hoc question will only be submitted by the authors of the main question, otherwise we will not reach the ninth issue: your groupmate Uno Kaskpeit would not be able to deal with his subject at all. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U51	Thanks for the question, good questioner. I continue to take the same view, and I am pleased that we share this view. In fact, I sincerely believe that municipalities are partners in the central government and ministries of the country. This is how I took them when I worked here in the honourable Riigikogu, and so I take them now when I work in the Government of the Republic. I understand very well the point of discussion, what the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has said with his regulation, but one point is that I believe that the situation must not deteriorate. We have to start with that. For no municipality, no county, no resident, the situation must not deteriorate. When we talk about the ticket price, my opinion has always been as follows. Public transport centres, which include representatives of local governments and whose wage costs are largely borne by the State, have three options for deciding on the price of the ticket: either they leave the highest price imposed, they lower the price or they set the price at zero. It's their decision. Accordingly, the State pays them the loss of ticket revenue. In addition, the second fundamental position is indeed what you said that public transport centres can ask for more resources for the upgrading of routes. Approximately 3.3 million is foreseen for this purpose and can be asked for up to 10%. And the third fundamental change is the so-called driving-sharing service. We will test the first pilot project or programme in Saaremaa. Let's see how it goes with this smart solution. If it goes well, this service could definitely expand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U52	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U53	Thank you, Prime Minister. Just a reply that this freedom is actually apparent. If they do not opt for a zero price, they will, I stress, lose some of the state's money and have to pay for themselves. In that case, no one can choose any other option. I would also like to ask whether you also consider the principle that, in the event that a zero price is chosen, i.e. the burden of the entire public transport organisation is borne by the State, there is no need to justify this decision. However, if the public transport centre decides to set a partial price and charge the consumer, it must justify that decision, protect it and, more importantly, pay it from its own pockets. And how can we still assess unfair competition with private operators? In many ways, the so-called commercial routes overlap with the routes of the regional public transport centres. This decision actually means the disappearance of a number of commercial lines, which, in turn, imposes an additional burden on the State in opening new routes, because people are used to travelling by public transport there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U54	Thank you. First of all, the idea and aim of this whole public transport organisation is to improve the accessibility of public transport and also the affordability of Estonian residents. We're only talking about regional public transport. You are certainly more familiar with Pärnu County, for example, than I, because you have been both the mayor of Pärnu and the mayor of the county, but as far as I am concerned, the public transport ticket in the county is now about 50.52 euros. I think it's quite a lot of money. For example, if Pärnu decides to offer public transport within the county free of charge, the residents will no longer have to pay for this monthly card. But you don't have to offer it for free. As I said, the highest price in the regulation can also be continued or the price concession granted. I will now answer your question: in one case, as must be the case, and in the other case, it is not necessary. I am entirely of the opinion that if public transport centres decide to set a ticket price that is not zero, but which is not allowed at the highest level, i.e. if they reduce the price of the ticket and receive subsidies from the state on its account, this should be the basic principle of negotiating We have said that public transport centres have decision-making powers, and that must not only be a saying, but it must also be a real action. I think we need to see if this is the case in May. And if that is not the case, then there is still a need to intervene in these negotiations or discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U55	The next item is the election right of foreign Estonians. Jüri Adams asks, "The Secretary of the Interior, Andres Anvelt."
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U56	Mr. Minister! First of all, I want to start by thanking the public. At the beginning of the year, you helped us bring figures about the electoral people, which have launched a series of works. The general idea of my current question is what has been done in the ministry in the meantime. There's about six months before the election lists settle down. What is going to be done in this direction? But so much more to fill in the question, we have about 70,000.. maybe a few thousand fewer people who live permanently abroad. In general, they do not vote in Riigikogu elections, but are on the list of Estonian voters. The boundaries of the electoral circles have now changed, which has raised questions about their relocation. And I also have a question about further work. Some official told me that we are being tried to send each of these voters, but there is no control over whether the email address is correct or whether we will be able to get there. I'm sorry, I would have asked for more, but the minutes were full.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U57	There is another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U58	Thank you. Actually, it's a wide subject. I'm trying to get a good start. There are 85705 voters abroad in total. And for us, they're divided into two groups. One group is the kind to whom the district is assigned. There's 71,000 of them and a little bit more. The other group is the one who's missing a district. There's 14,000 of them and a little bit more. At the moment, it is true that for those who have been assigned to the district and whose data we know, we are sending a voter card. And they can vote in three ways, as you know: by e-voting or by post or by foreign representation. Those who have not been assigned a circuit cannot vote as long as they have not been assigned a circuit. But I have initiated a number of processes to get the districts in place in the future, apart from administrative reform. They have already changed to some extent according to municipalities. Take, for example, those municipalities that have gone to another county. As we know, a major change will also be discussed, which will certainly not be relevant to the next Riigikogu elections. One thing is that we are really trying to get in touch with them through existing e-mail addresses. And I certainly want to take advantage of today's online communication. We note that a person of Estonian origin, an Estonian citizen, lives wherever he or she lives, for example in New Zealand or Canada, will also visit our online media if he or she has any interest in the Estonian media. There you can also make an exact address or introduction to how they can contact and improve their data if they are interested. You can certainly also use the help of foreign agencies. So these activities we want to start at the end of the summer, in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U59	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U60	Minister, I nevertheless rely on the assumption that about 67000 electoral rights have gone from Estonia, who are not taking part in the elections, at least in some political sense, the Estonian state is guilty. He's left something to do. Could you think of a program that would track down these people and try to remove all the psychological or other obstacles that have diverted them from participating in the election?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U61	Thank you. I come to the same point that I have just pointed out in reply to the previous question. In fact, it is important that the Estonian state communicates with them in general at the beginning. As far as we know the e-mail addresses, we'll communicate personally, and we'll do as I say. But we also call on them more generally to contact us so that they give us their data so that we can communicate personally with them and provide them with information on which district to choose and how to restore our address, for example. It is also important, for example, that people whose family has lived away for several generations may not have a direct address connection with Estonia. In their case, they should move through parents or grandparents to the last contact with Estonia and to the region where they would see their choice. So what am I saying? We've actually begun these activities. We want to become as personal as possible, but at the beginning we still want to show the general interest of the Estonian state in these people. And it is possible to take advantage of the same Internet opportunities that did not exist in the 1990s. This gap actually occurred in the 1990s to some extent. We still have some 6 000-7000 people, for whom we have not documented the so-called "citizenship truth," i.e. whether they are citizens or not. But they haven't been active either. So these things also need to be fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U62	The next topic of Question Time is the construction of the Tallinn-Helsinki tunnel. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U63	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! We know that there was recently a joint session between the Estonian and Finnish governments, where the construction of the tunnel was also touched. Would you inform us more precisely what level this debate reached there? In terms of time savings, I also ask this question: is it also intended to attract the private sector and to find European Union money for this construction?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U64	Mr Sild, first of all, I would like to thank you for asking about this serious issue in Question Time. Thank you. Yes, on 7 May, on Monday this week, there was a historic session, the first joint session in the 100-year Republic of Estonia, which we called the anniversary session of Estonia-Finland. The Government of the Republic of Estonia has never held a joint session before, and for Finland it was also a historical event. I understand that Finland has also held a joint meeting with the Kingdom of Sweden, but it did so in Finland. So Finland has not held a joint session outside the Finnish state. We discussed four questions, and one question really was the Helsinki-Tallinn tunnel. Where did we end up with these discussions? We have come to the point that both governments consider it very important to move forward with the research on the Helsinki tunnel, and, of course, to move in the direction of making this connection at one point. I think it would be a real thing, how two cities could connect the two environments. This would be useful in economic terms, in terms of jobs, but certainly culturally, it would add to the attractiveness of tourism. Now, you pointed out whether the private sector could be involved in this project. Point one: I think that without the private sector, this tunnel project will never be realised. The answer is certainly yes, the private sector should be involved. This was also the common position of both governments. You also had a question of funding from European Union funds. If the construction of this tunnel starts, I am not sure that this will mean the next budget period for the European Union, it would certainly be important and necessary to apply for money from this knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U65	The question to be specified is asked by Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Are there also plans to take any concrete steps to set up a working group, start identifying design and geological conditions, start making financial calculations and identifying the size classes of national holdings, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U67	Thank you. Yes, of course. I think that the first very concrete step is that at the level of governments, at the level of the joint session, both governments have said that we are going ahead with the tunnel project and the desire. That's point one. Next, it is extremely important to have a specific solution that needs to be further worked on. After all, we have an analysis behind it or whose customers have been two countries, county governments, two cities. And in fact, such a request or decision was also made at the end of the joint session of the two governments. The prime ministers of both countries want ministers, ministries and officials to continue working on these topics, including the tunnel connection between Tallinn and Helsinki. Of course, we also need to consider what this means for the natural environment. Of course, all security and safety requirements must be considered and the final and continuous financial scheme that Mr Arno Sild asked about must be found. The public sectors and ministries of both countries will go forward with all these activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U68	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 14th working week session of the VII plenary session on Wednesday. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I am putting the draft law amending the Citizenship Act into procedure. The main reason for this is that the Citizenship Act is contrary to the Constitution. The Constitution prohibits the taking away of citizenship at birth; the Citizenship Act forces the choice between citizenships. We are not in favour of double citizenship, but we believe that the greater value is the preservation of Estonian citizens. Today, many Estonian citizens are in a situation where, for example, they have learned at the embassy that they must give up one citizenship within three years, because the Citizenship Act requires it. This is a great disappointment, it creates alienation and, of course, the Estonian people will therefore remain smaller. According to this bill, we do not have any new citizens, but we do keep existing ones. We do not think that double citizenship should be allowed to anyone, which is why this draft contains a very limited list of countries. These countries belong very clearly to a common value area with us and are, in some ways, our allies. These are then the European Union and other countries of the European Economic Area, as well as Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the USA and Switzerland. We believe that there is no reasonable reason, including the security why people who have received passports from these countries should give up Estonian citizenship at birth. I stress that we are talking about post-natal citizens and a very limited number of countries, not double citizenship in general. In addition, the draft offers the possibility of withdrawing the citizenship granted for special services from people whose behaviour has not been in line with the standards and deep content of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U70	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U71	If the Honorable President allows me, I would like to ask you about the management of Question Time today. I have been a member of the Riigikogu for quite a short time and I just want to ask you this. I think there was an interesting precedent today, even several precedents. While it has been customary so far to allow Riigikogu members one additional question for a number of key issues and two for a small number of questions, today one was promised at the beginning, but the regulation was amended in half and the right to submit an additional question was withdrawn altogether. This was linked to the objective of giving the opportunity to respond to all key issues. But in that case, some people who have come to the briefing and checked in may find out at half the briefing that there is no point in being here. And in the future, is it going to be that Question Time lasts longer than 14:00, or was it just a coincidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U72	This question can be answered long and can be answered shorter. First of all, putting together the Question Time questionnaire is based on the second. The Board of the Riigikogu always tries to accept all the topics that Riigikogu members want to deal with in Question Time. The rules on how to conduct an information session in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu do not specify how many additional questions may be asked and how long one or the other subject may be dealt with. The Chair shall also be authorised to make certain changes in this regard as soon as possible. I believe that anyone who would have chaired today's sitting in my place would have made these changes with a heavy heart. Of course, it would be better to focus a little more on the issues that have been brought to the Chamber. My practice in conducting Question Time is very short and, in brief, with my colleague, I believe that it would probably be best to limit the number of topics to be addressed to six. Then it would be quite thorough and perhaps more detailed. Today's decision I made on this ground, as I explained, was that I preferred the abundance of topics to a large number of questioners, and, of course, that the groups could ask for and discuss their issues. I believe this will be the exception for a long time that Question Time will end after 2:00. Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. When you started your answer, you said you could answer briefly or for long. I didn't know if it was a short or long answer. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U74	It was probably an argumentated answer. If that's what you think it was, I'm happy. I'm not happy that everyone couldn't ask what you wanted to ask, but let's be honest, there's 101 people sitting in this hall who can and want to ask. There's got to be a line somewhere. Oh, the Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U75	Thank you. I'm gonna keep doing the same thing. It has been good practice so far that, when the President starts an introduction to Question Time, he will determine the Question Time Procedure, i.e. several additional questions may be submitted. I will unravel the verbatim: you have said that, since there are nine issues, the President of the sitting will give an opportunity to ask a very specific question. So far, there has not been a change of pace. All the participants in the hearing have known about it from the beginning. It is therefore incomprehensible why you behaved in a completely different way today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U76	As I said, the rules for conducting Question Time have not been put in place until the end. That's why I took the right to change the order. I saw that Uno Kaskpeit would not be able to raise his subject and ask a question. That's a reason. But I think that the main conclusion that the Board of the Riigikogu must draw is that too many topics must not be planned in advance. At the same time, we would like you all to be able to ask questions on matters that are important to you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U77	Mr President, should equality between the questioners of the various political groups not be a key priority for the Board of the Riigikogu? This, I think, has been quite well ensured so far by questioning each other. In this case, we conclude that, for the next time, the whole group should register the question, because then there is a greater probability that they will also come to an answer. We have so far approached in a different way, given that all opposition groups will have an equal opportunity to sum up.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U78	This is exactly what the Board of the Riigikogu is about when planning an information lesson. As you can see, it is quite precisely regulated who can ask a question from the representatives of the opposition groups, just as the ministers and the Prime Minister do. I believe that this Question Time today will give the subject of reflection first and foremost to the Riigikogu's management. I'm sure I'll stand by not just planning so many subjects. Because if we continue on a specific subject, almost all the questioners will use the time prescribed for the question a little more than a minute. Almost all ministers respond for a little more than two minutes. It would probably be a little too formal to call them to order, but there come those extra seconds. I'm afraid that's the case. Today's Question Time showed that the future planning of Question Time probably needs to be a little different. Now please check your presence! 88 delegates take part in the meeting, no 13. Clarification of the agenda: on today's ninth item on the agenda, the first reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic, will be presented by Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, on behalf of the initiator.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U79	The final topic of Question Time brings in Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U80	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Time is short, so let's be brief. I have this question: for what purpose were radar surveillance sites lost from Saaremaa, Kärdla and Kunda and are now being assembled in the Alert Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U81	The Minister is complaining that it is not well heard. Give your speech a little bit more volume.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U82	Hello! I have a question about the purpose of losing radar surveillance sites in Saaremaa, Kärdla and Kunda. Yesterday, we went to the Alarm Centre, where we are already setting up for the transfer, to the Alarm Centre, where observation of the entire Estonian sea area is being brought to the alarm centre. How do you justify this, and what is the purpose? As far as I know, there are no people coming from Saaremaa, Hiiumaa or Kunda. Maybe only two people will come over here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U83	The Minister of the Interior will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U84	Thank you. There's two things. Point one: It has already been transferred from Kunda to the Tallinn Alarm Centre, in the case of Kärdla and Kuressaare it is planned to do so in the next calendar year. These decisions were taken a few years ago and the reason is very simple. First, rescue events are managed the most from the same center. And if we have emergency services, police and border guard services, rescue services and marine rescue services in one room, who also monitor radar positions, information will move much faster and decisions will be made much faster. To this I would certainly like to say that a number of proposals are being made to all these people in Kundas and Kuressaare, Kärdla. One suggestion is to go to work in Tallinn. Another proposal is to receive further education at the College of Police and Border Guards and to take up another position at home. Example of the Kunda: Two people accepted such an offer and two people took off because they did not want to continue in another profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U85	With those words, we'll finish Question Time. Thank you very much to the ministers. We're ready to start the main sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U86	Today's first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Approval of the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Would you like to negotiate? That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is to hold the final vote on the draft 580, but, as has just been said, the approval of the composition of the Riigikogu requires a majority. Let's recheck the presence. There are 88 ambassadors. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 580. After a minute's notice, we'll vote. Honourable Riigikogu, please take a stand against the draft law 580 and vote! 86 delegates voted in favour of the draft law, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 580 on the amendment of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U87	Second item: Third reading of the Act on the Bar Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on the Courts, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Amendment of Laws and Other Acts 583. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U88	Good vice chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Free Party Group does not support the draft law, which bears the number 583. I would like to remind you that this House has repeatedly condemned cluster proposals. The bill is also a cluster bill. That's what they turned him into when he was second-reading. In our opinion, the introduction of prepayments and basic rates for bailiffs has not passed a legal or economic analysis. The Riigikogu cannot and must not take decisions for which there are no impact analyses. When the Supreme Court makes decisions about our decisions to date, we need to process these observations in substance. It hasn't been done today. Such sloppy and even condescending leadership is experienced by the Minister, who received a yellow card from us at the beginning of the year when we conducted a vote of distrust. Reinsalu's professional culture is questionable and concerns both the content and procedures of the plans to develop. Good Riigikogu, please let us reason and become more substantive in our work by not adopting this bill today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U89	There are no further requests to speak. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 583. We will go to the preparation of the vote after we have carried out the verification of the presence, because the adoption of this bill requires the majority of the Riigikogu to vote in favour. There are 75 ambassadors. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the draft law amending the Act on bar Associations, the Law on Courts, the Law on Law Enforcement and other laws, as initiated by the Government of the Republic, 583. But first, let's hear the call to the hall. Honourable Riigikogu, please take a stand on bill 583 and vote! There were 52 ambassadors in favour of the bill, 7 against no abstentions. The draft law amending the Act on bar Association, the Law on Courts, the Law on bailiffs and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 583 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U90	Third item: Third reading of draft measure law 566 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations for the political groups. That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 566. We will go to the preparation of the vote. Are you ready to vote? Thank you! I shall vote on the draft measure law initiated by the Government of the Republic 566. Please take a stand and vote. 78 ambassadors voted in favour of the draft law, no respondents and no abstentions. The draft measure law initiated by the Government of the Republic 566 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U91	Today's fourth item is draft law on cyber security initiated by the Government of the Republic 597. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 597. Let's get ready for this. Is the hall ready to vote? I am voting on the draft law on cyber security initiated by the Government of the Republic 597. Please take a stand and vote. 79 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions were found. The draft law on cyber security initiated by the Government of the Republic 597 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U92	Fifth item: The second reading of Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali' by the Government of the Republic. Mr Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission, please waitress to the microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Upon the entry into force of this decision of the Riigikogu, Estonia can send up to 50 active troops to participate in an operation led by France in Barkhane Mali. This is France's largest military operation in the Sahel region of Africa, with 4,500 fighters. The final objective of the operation shall be to stabilise the situation in the region to a degree which enables the local authorities to ensure the security situation on their own. Estonia's participation is justified by the need to contribute to the containment of terrorism and illegal trade, so that the deepening of the problems does not have negative consequences in European countries. Joint participation will also help to strengthen the links between defence cooperation with France. Only Mali is planned as the operational area of the Estonian units for the Barkhane operation, which is also the main focus of the entire operation. Estonia plans to contribute to the Mechanised Infantry Team, the National Support Element and the Staff Officers. The task of the unit would be to protect the base, patrol and respond quickly in emergency situations near the base, including readiness to carry out convoy defence tasks. The unit shall be formed on the basis of the Scouts battalion. Now for the procedure. The first reading of the bill took place in the Riigikogu on 5 April. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 25 April at 5.15 p.m. On the advice of the language editor, the Commission made a single linguistic specification of the text by deleting the word 'until' in the draft, 1st point, '2018. For the period from 31 December 2007 to 31 December 2007. The author of the draft act supported this clarification. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 30 April and agreed by consensus to send it to second reading by 9 May. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading and, based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U94	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U95	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I read and I don't understand. First point: use up to 50 active troops until 31 December. Second point: however, the staff may be increased to 100 active troops. I would stress that it is six months. You could have briefly said that up to 100 active troops would be sent there. What's with the reconnaissance game? What's behind this? Maybe in one month, there's some kind of signal coming from somewhere and then hopping up to 100?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U96	Thank you. There's no reconnaissance back here. We're gonna give a mandate to up to 50 actives, which is an infantry team plus a support element. During the rotation period, this number may temporarily increase to 100 because the previous unit is still on site when its replacement arrives. The previous unit will hand things over to the new unit and then leave. At the moment of the rotation, i.e. at the moment of the transfer, Mali has been on a mission as well as a replacement unit for a while. We're not gonna make one unit go away, it's gonna be empty, and then there's gonna be another rotating unit. Thus, two mission units are simultaneously in the mission area at a certain point in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U97	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U98	Thank you very much. My question to the rapporteur is: does our government have an agreement with the Malian Government on the status of forces, SOFA, which guarantees the legal protection of our Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U99	Yeah, it is when we go on the mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U100	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Reading this draft decision, I understand that both Estonia and France have made some kind of international commitment to participate in Mali. Where did we get these responsibilities from? I mean Estonia, in the case of France, it is no matter where he took them. And maybe such obligations have been fixed somewhere else? Are there any more to offer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U102	We have no obligation to help France with his operation in Mali. We have the right and the freedom to help him. France has already contributed longer and France is our very good ally. We recall that the French unit was also in Estonia some time ago. The presence of the French unit in Estonia was supposed to be a one-time mission for France. Thanks to the fact that we decided to support France on his mission to Mali, the French Government changed its mind and the French return to Estonia. It's a political decision, it's a peaceful operation. This peaceful operation does not depend to a lesser extent on Article 5 of the NATO Treaty or any other article. In the case of peacetime operations, it is up to the governments of each country to decide which country it is sending to its military contingent. With this decision to go to support one of our allies and one of the largest countries in NATO, Estonia gives a very strong political signal that we are not only consumers of security, but also contributors to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U103	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U104	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, France is undoubtedly our good ally and its presence in Estonia is welcome. But my question is: do you know which other countries France has asked for their units to participate in Mali, and what has been their response? And isn't France, for example, a good ally of our southern neighbour, Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U105	Thank you. We send our unit to Mali, not on the French side, but on our own initiative. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia took this initiative, based on the political principle that we do not want to be a jogger behind others in the Malian operation, who, just seeing that some countries are already going to help France, will decide that we will come too. Estonia proposed this to France itself, without any urgent invitation from France. This was Estonia's initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U106	Thanks for the report. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Since this is a second reading, everyone will be able to present their thoughts to the hall. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U107	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good folklore! We follow the same line of reasoning as to whether we have a covenant or a desire or a will, but we always forget to ask the men who go there. We will never ask if we send athletes to international competitions, where there is still a transnational agreement, why, for example, our cyclists are going to some big cycling competition. No one even asks why yesterday a girl represented Estonia in a song competition. This question, so asked, would give rise to the notion that let our talents measure together. But those men who go on a mission are already dreaming of the taste of Männiku moss in their mouths. They want to take international measurements. And if these men are willing to go there voluntarily and the state supports it, what's wrong with it? It is always possible to peck, and this is a topic that you can spin, that's why we're all here, that we're all part of the word, but I would advise you all to be in favour of this bill. Who cannot go to Mali on a tourist tour maybe uses this option to qualify for the mission and go there during the next Riigikogu membership when he is no longer a member. So let's support it!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U108	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments to the draft 608 were proposed. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote, and we will prepare it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali', draft 608. Please take a stand and vote. 69 delegates voted in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. Draft 608 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U109	Sixth item: Second reading of draft Land Improvement Act 524 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U110	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Land Improvement Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 October last year. The first reading was completed on 21 November 2017. Neither the political groups nor the members of the Riigikogu submitted amendments to the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 5 December. Opinions on the draft were sought from the stakeholders mentioned in the draft explanatory memorandum, who were involved in the preparation of the draft. These were the Estonian Private Forest Association, the Estonian Society of Land Healers, the Estonian University of Life Sciences and the Estonian Society of Water Engineers. The Estonian Society of Land healers submitted its draft opinion and proposals to amend it; its proposals were also sent to the Commission by Enno Zimmer, the former land healer. Further proposals were also made by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The Commission discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 11 December and at its seven meetings this year. All these meetings were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, including the Minister for Rural Affairs on 5 February. On 11 December 2017, Mr Zimmer and representatives of the Estonian Land Healers Society participated in the meeting and were able to explain their proposals. At the meetings of the Commission, the most lively discussion was held on the regulation of the terms used in the draft proposal and the establishment of a land improvement cooperative. According to the current Land Improvement Act, and this was also the case in the previous versions of the Act, at least two owners of land improvement systems can be established by the Land Improvement Association, owned by more than one-third of the total land-based or common-flux length of the land-repair system. The criterion for establishing the same cooperative was also included in the draft. According to the draft law, each of the owners of the cooperative's land improvement system (the main member of the cooperative) in the area where the cooperative operates had votes in proportion to its share of the joint-flow obligation (calculated on the basis of the land area and the length of the joint-flow of the land improvement system on the immovable property), each of which had at least one vote and none had more than two fifths of the votes. These principles were called into question at the meeting of the Commission on 8 January. It was found that each member of the cooperative to be established should have one vote, that more than half of the members of the cooperative should participate in the start-up meeting, and that more than half of all members should be involved in the formation of the cooperative. If the first attempt to form a cooperative fails, a repetition meeting may be convened where the conditions for the establishment of the cooperative are less stringent. The total number of amendments is 27. Most of them are specific or linguistic. Important changes relate to the fact that when we look at Google on the Internet, there are the words 'deep' and 'deep', but in the beginning such words were lost in this bill. We specify what this common current is, which is a water pipeline.. it's a ditch, a canal, a drain and a collector, a irrigation water pipe or any other facility that belongs to a land improvement system. The Commission raised the question of what a small system is. If it used to be 2 hectares and 20 hectares in some variant, the bill tried to do it for as much as 100 hectares. The compromise for all parties concerned was that the area of the small system should not exceed 50 hectares. The small system means that it is a system owned by one owner, it does not have several owners. Finally, the consensus also agreed criteria on how land improvement cooperatives can be formed. All 27 amendments have been proposed by the Commission by consensus. The Commission has decided to propose the termination of the second reading today and, when the second reading is completed, to send a draft to the third reading by 16 May inclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U111	Krista Aru opens the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Is the register of land improvement cooperatives, which becomes a very important tool, available, operational and ready for use?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U113	Yeah, there's a land improvement register. From there, anyone who wishes to establish a cooperative can have all the information. This register shall contribute to the establishment activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U114	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U115	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable performer! That's my question. If someone's private owner's immovable property is located in an area where land improvement works will be carried out, will there be the same situation as if someone wanted to build a road and then the land would be compensated for in this forced state? How exactly does this work? Are they paying for anything? What are these legal relationships like? Are they similar to those applicable, for example, in the case of road construction or the construction of other public objects?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U116	Ownership relationships are such that if two parties wish to make a deal, the two parties need to agree among themselves. If no agreement is reached, then it is always possible to go to court. But in the case of a cooperative, the cooperative must agree with all the parties that something is being done. There shouldn't be any problems you just asked me about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U117	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. As you have heard, 27 amendments have been tabled to the draft. Although all these are presented by the Committee on Rural Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take everyone fully into account, we will still examine them one by one together. The first amendment is the decision by the Committee on Rural Affairs, which is the decision of the lead committee: to take full account. Amendment 2, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20; amendment 21, 22, 23, 24. All submitted by the Committee on Rural Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take them fully into account. The draft has therefore been submitted for amendment... Ah, there are only 24 amendments in my material, but there are also 25, 26 and 27 amendments. The amendments to draft 524 have therefore been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 524. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U118	Seventh item: First reading of the Act on the Organisation of Health Services and Amendment of the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 626. Minister of Health and Labour Riina Sikkut to waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Health Insurance Act. The aim of this draft is to make two main changes. One of them deals with registration in Estonia as a health worker when it comes to people who have completed education in a third country, i.e. outside the European Union and other countries of the European Economic Area and Switzerland. The second part of the changes also concerns the creation of insurance cover for those medical residents who run short-term, one-month cycles within the framework of their studies. First of all, the registration of health workers from third countries in Estonia. Why are these changes being made? At present, an aptitude test is only foreseen if the qualifications and skills of these people need to be tested. The audit has found that this regulation has not been legal. There has been a margin of discretion in determining the qualification examination and, in fact, it has not been necessary for all of them to pass the aptitude examination. For their part, doctors pointed out as a problem that in third countries medical education and residency are considerably shorter than in Estonia and has so far been compensated by work experience. Our doctors don't think it's right. In fact, however, learning and working experience are not equivalent. Doctors would like to check the practical skills of healthcare professionals coming from third countries. It should be taken into account that health professionals who are registered in Estonia also have the right to practise their profession in other Member States of the European Union. What, then, will this new procedure for the registration of healthcare workers in third countries look like? What change will be made? Now it becomes mandatory to perform the compliance test. First of all, the Health Board will check whether the applicant has completed medical or nursing training or dental or midwife training that meets the requirements established in Estonia. If not, the procedure will end and the person will not be registered as a health care worker in Estonia. If, in principle, the education corresponds to what is required of health care workers in Estonia, then in addition, the applicant must have worked in his profession for at least three consecutive years during the previous five years, unless he has completed his studies less than five years ago. And thirdly, in Estonia, the applicant must perform a match at the University of Tartu or the University of Health. If the result of the compliance test is positive, the person shall be entered in the register of healthcare professionals. The examination of conformity shall consist of two parts. The first is an internship lasting between one and six months, and the tutor can extend it to 12 months if he or she wishes. The internship provider has a supervisor, as is currently the case for the resident, and this supervisor is remunerated in the same way as the current resident supervisor. After completing the work placement, the applicant must pass the theoretical knowledge examination. The theoretical examination is in Estonian, passed at the University of Tartu or the University of Health. The theoretical examination must be completed up to 12 months after completion of the internship. If you don't pass the first exam, you can do it again. The draft sets maximum levels for examination fees. This is not directly related to health professionals in third countries.. These ceilings apply also to those who have obtained their qualifications in Estonia but have exceeded their registration period or wish to re-enter the register of health professionals for some reason. They, too, will have to pay that reward. Maximum fee, the maximum amount shall be EUR 1000. At present, the compliance fee is 691 euros and 20 cents, and it will be so large for the time being. Now the second part of the changes concerning residents' health insurance. In particular, residents who study as a family doctor perform up to one month cycles in different health care institutions, including family doctor practices, but according to the Health Insurance Act, only fixed-term workers whose employment exceeds one month are currently covered by health insurance. Students are covered by health insurance, but according to the University of Tartu Act, doctors and residents are not students, so medical residents may now have holes in insurance cover. The total number of medical residences is 450, and this change is likely to affect about 60 medical residents in the field of family medicine. From now on, doctors and residents who undertake work placements will be covered by health insurance regardless of the duration of their employment contract, it will be less than one month or more than one month. The Act should enter into force on 1 July 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U120	There are questions for the Minister. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U121	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, For five years, 38 health professionals from third countries have been registered in Estonia. Do you have an overview of the language level of these doctors now? And do you think that the state could somehow provide sufficient training in Estonian for new doctors who want to come to work in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U122	The amendments currently proposed in the draft do not provide a direct level of language proficiency for doctors, because that is what the language law does for us. It says that the level of language proficiency required by the doctor is C1, the nurse has a B2. That's true for now, anyway. But I agree that there are certainly doctors whose language skills are inadequate. The Language Inspectorate has checked this over the years and indeed, especially in the case of doctors in Ida-Virumaa, in very many cases it does not meet the current requirements. The question now is whether the doctors who wish to work as a health care worker in Estonia and from whom the language law already requires certain language skills must learn the Estonian language themselves, or whether we see it as part of their registration as a health care worker. At the moment, even at the request of doctors, it has been resolved in such a way that the theoretical examination must be carried out in Estonian. This does not mean that the doctor must immediately speak C1-level Estonian, but he must be able to communicate in Estonian and also know specialized terms in Estonian. Since this work placement, which can be extended to 12 months, is likely to take place in his future workplace and in the Estonian hospital, it is probably not an insurmountable problem to pass this exam in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U123	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U124	Thank you very much. Madam Minister! It is clear that we need more doctors and there is a shortage of doctors, especially in Ida-Viru County. It is also clear, however, that the preparation of doctors varies greatly from country to country. For example, those coming from the Russian Federation have a much better level than those in Ukraine. Now this two-part compliance test is foreseen. Do you really think that's the time that their levels will align? And this exam must still be taken in Estonian. It is clear that there are complex medical terms. Have you tried to organize some kind of finance to teach these people the language? It is still a question of patient safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U125	There is no separate programme for doctors to study the language, and there is no such plan. Like other arrivals who wish to learn the language, doctors are offered language courses. The Integration Foundation currently offers free A2, B1 and B2 Estonian language courses. Doctors can also participate. Estonian language houses are opened in Narva and Tallinn, where these doctors can learn the language in the same way. But yes, indeed, there is no plan to organise a language study course for separate doctors. While there are other target groups in the language centres that have similar backgrounds or needs, they are teachers or doctors, they can provide more specific training for smaller groups. And that's what's been done. The unemployment fund also supports language learning. An employer who has several employees with similar educational needs under his or her management will then need to improve language skills or something else, it can also be organised at the workplace.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U126	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U127	Thank you. Good minister! The area to be regulated concerns not only people but also the hospital network. And these aren't so separate things. You have said very bravely that consolidation in the hospital network must continue, including in the maternity departments. How do you comment on the statement made yesterday by the Prime Minister in which he promises to finance this strategic planning area from a reserve which is intended only for exceptional cases? A monetary man would call it a state theft. As a health person, how do you comment on the question of quality, the views of the Minister of Health, and also the views of the association of women doctors, be called into question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U128	In this sense, it is difficult for me to say that I really support the closure of maternity departments in Valga and Põlva. I think the number of deliveries there is very low and it is likely to decrease further. We can't fight the demography. This is not a ministerial decision, it is not an official decision. Women's doctors themselves have said about the minimum or optimal number of births that will allow you to maintain competence, develop further, mitigate risks. Since this criterion is currently not met by Põlva and Valga's maternity department, according to the principles agreed in society on how we organise the health care system, these departments should indeed be closed. However, if such a decision is made, the doctors, nurses, and midwives that it concerns, as well as the ambulances, who may therefore be subject to a greater burden, must understand this decision. This must be justified on their part. And it must also be explained to all local residents what this change means for them, how things will happen in the future. The questions of the local population must be answered. At the same time, I understand that, if, until now, the closure of the maternity units has been delayed, it is now ready to postpone it for six months or a year and cover the deficit. I understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U129	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! The draft law was not preceded by a design plan. This is justified by the fact that it was preceded by the 2015 audit and that all conclusions and proposals are primarily based on this audit. My question is: does the Ministry have at least some impact analysis focused on the behaviour, skills and needs of healthcare workers from third countries? For example, how are they secured and whether access to databases is guaranteed at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U131	Indeed, it is difficult to predict how many health professionals from third countries would like to register in Estonia in the next few years. But in the draft, both in terms of budget expenditure and in terms of the burden on supervisors, these things are written off. It has also been specified that doctors and nurses from third countries in work placements can access the health information system to check health data there. That's the right they get. This is essential for them to participate in the treatment process. These third-country health professionals also undergo largely the same processes as those provided for in the education of our residents, nurses and midwives, and, if they are guaranteed this access by the current regulation, it must also be given to third-country health workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U132	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U133	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I read subsection 8 of § 1 of the Bill here, which says that § 30 of the Act is also supplemented by paragraph 34, which says that the University of Tartu or the University of Healthcare organises a theoretical examination for a person who has passed a work placement within 12 months. Can you tell me how many people could be who have been here for 12 months and are able to take this exam with C1 level language skills after this practice in Estonian? Aren't we going to create a difficult situation with this law? We know that in Põlva, for example, let alone that there is a shortage of doctors in hospitals in Ida-Virumaa and Lääne-Virumaa. There are people coming from Russia, from Ukraine. I am afraid that if we adopt this law, no new doctors can come to work for us, because few can learn the Estonian language so quickly in the evening. And we do not have any law to regulate whether they receive free training or any other kind of help.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U134	First of all, the bill doesn't say that you have to know the language at level C1 to pass the exam. In fact, the level of communication is sufficient. And when doctors understand each other by means of professional terms, when it is possible to assess a person's competence and when he or she has completed work placements, you can also give an assessment of practical skills. In fact, I find the requirement for language proficiency to pass the exam relatively flexible; it does not require a high level. However, whether it is a doctor from a third country or a doctor currently practicing in Estonia, the language law requires knowledge of Estonian at C1 level. That requirement is there, and that is not what we are changing or debating at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U135	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I come to the point that speaks of the effects of the law. It says that there are about 40 people who come from third countries and wish to be registered in the Estonian Register of Health Care Workers per year. It accounts for about 1% of our health professionals and 10% of them go to other countries of the European Union. My request is that you evaluate the trends that govern Estonian health care. Will the number of health workers in third countries increase in the future and what kind of movement is taking place between Estonia and the European Union? I'm sure you have some kind of understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U137	This number of 40 is really so many people who could apply to perform the compliance test. Between 2014 and 2018, 38 people from third countries have started working in Estonia. This estimate of 40 people per year is probably too optimistic. Some of them do not already meet the educational requirements imposed on health care professionals in Estonia. However, if you look at what has happened so far, you can say that the bill concerns more doctors. During the last five years, for example, no midwife from a third country has wished to come to work in Estonia and some sisters have been alone. There have been 11 doctors/dental doctors and seven nurses and midwives from the European Union to Estonia during the same period. So the practice so far shows that it is the doctors from third countries who want to come to Estonia most. But what would the future forecast be, or what the dynamics of the coming years will be, I cannot say.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U138	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! As it says, there was no plan to develop. And only recently did we hear from Minister Ossinovski that neither did the Department of Social Affairs for the Analysis of Pharmacy Reform. It seems to indicate that some important things are not done. But I was a little surprised by the answer to language learning. In fact, if I remember correctly, one of the ideological principles of language learning at the unemployment fund was that people should be taught the language that is needed in their profession or in their workplace. Therefore, in my opinion, it would have been logical if this law had made it very clear to those who came to it that their language learning would be specific according to their specialty. Have I got something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U140	No, in this sense, you did not misunderstand that a separate doctor's language training programme does not provide for it. The issue of language learning, what is still required and whether the Estonian-language theoretical examination should be, was the most acute topic in the discussion of the Social Committee. The proposals must and must be dealt with before the next reading. But also during the work you can learn from it is communication with patients or contact with colleagues. You can also learn a specialized language. In addition, the language of communication can be acquired in the Estonian language course, which would be further education. And if there really is an employer with several third-country health professionals who want to learn the language, it can also be organised at the workplace. But this bill does not provide for this practice, nor does it stipulate that it must be organised separately for doctors. Since hospitals still have perhaps just one or two healthcare professionals from a third country, I can't imagine how to organise such specific language training across the board. In the form of individual lessons, perhaps? It raises the same questions. I understand that questions arise because the vocabulary is specific to doctors and it is as if teaching it can be dealt with. But the same question would be raised if we said that we were to make specific programs for doctors. They would then want to know how it is organised, how funded, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U141	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U142	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My second question is a continuation of the first question. You said it would be difficult to predict the trend of what needs we could have for doctors coming from these third countries, but we all know the movements of the last decades. Still moving west from Eastern Europe, our people moving north. Are you prepared to make any assessment as to whether Estonian medical education can satisfy all the needs of our own country? We know that Finland in its own time reduced medical training and that is why the Estonian people had the opportunity to get a job there. What's the situation here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U143	In Estonia, the residency order and the order for nursing care have increased in recent years. And in the meantime, as far as the very acute concern that doctors are going abroad from Estonia is concerned, things have actually changed a lot. In 2011 and 2012, about 140 doctors took the certificate required to work abroad from the Health Board, but last year 40 doctors and 77 nurses requested it. And it's not known if they actually used it, whether they actually went abroad. This trend has been very fast falling for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U144	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U145	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! There is such a point in the RES that Ida-Viru Central Hospital receives EUR 15 million for the construction of the medical facility. This bill of yours is actually central to the Ida-Viru Central Hospital: 19 health professionals from third countries have been registered there. That's a third of 69 in total. At the same time, Kohtla-Järve is half the size of Narva. Narva is also important, but there are only seven such persons in the hospital, as much as in Pärnu. But this bill is really the central part of the town of Kohtla-Järve. What's the anomaly from? Why are problems especially in Kohtla-Järve, but not in Narva?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U146	Look at this recruitment policy, how one or the other of the hospital's health professionals finds, I don't know how to comment. But I agree that so far, the largest number of doctors from third countries have gone to work at the Ida-Viru Central Hospital. Of course, we shouldn't write a bill for one hospital or one district. If, in the future, the need for doctors is greater, for example, in Saaremaa or Põlva, this law regulates the legal space for them as well. This means all health professionals in third countries, whether they go to work at Ida-Viru Central Hospital or elsewhere. But the practice so far has really been that the largest number of people have started working there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U147	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You're here for the first time today. Good luck in your work. My question is this: those 40 people who are already registered and who will be registered in the near future will be able to move on to other Member States. And that's the important thing that they get permission from here through this jurisdiction. You said, and it is also said, that this effect of 40 people is relatively small, is not significant. This immediately raises the question that if our registered health professionals can move to another Europe, it makes sense that registered elsewhere can move here. How's that number? I don't know if the movement from that side is bigger than Latvia, Lithuania? How many people are there, and what rules apply to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U149	Indeed, the compliance requirements do not apply to health professionals who move within the European Union. For them, the registration procedure has already been carried out in another Member State. Over the last five years, 11 doctors-tooth doctors and seven nurses and midwives have been in attendance from the European Union. So there has been less movement from that side than from third countries. In terms of the fees involved and in terms of procedures, our current regulation rather wants to be aligned with what is the practice of other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U150	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The Social Affairs Committee waitress is Liina Kersna. Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U151	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft last week, more specifically on 3 May. We were introduced to us by Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, who has just left the remote control, and Perit Kirkmann, head of the health network of the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I will no longer introduce the draft; the Minister has already done so thoroughly. The topics that we raised in the Commission were similar to those that came up in this big hall. First of all, the language issue. This issue is certainly most acutely relevant to the Ida-Viru Central Hospital, which has also drawn attention to this bottleneck. In the near future, probably next week, we will also continue to discuss this issue with stakeholders in the Committee on Social Affairs and we will try to find a suitable solution. Because obviously we have regions where there is a great need for new doctors. The quality of the work of healthcare workers from third countries was also asked. We have received confirmation that there have been no more complaints about doctors from these countries than about doctors from Estonia or from the European Union. So the heart was satisfied, the quality of work problems are not. They also asked whether such a doctor who does not speak Estonian could temporarily work in the Estonian health care system. We were assured that this is possible when it comes to temporary work. We made our decisions by consensus: to propose that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today, 9 May, to conclude the first reading and to set ten working days, i.e. 23 May, as the deadline for amendments. It was decided to appoint me as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U152	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? Thank you, Liina Kersna! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of Bill 626 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 23 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U153	The next item is the first reading of Bill 614 of the Act amending the Act on the Use of Money from Privatization initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur on behalf of the initiator is Janek Mäggi, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U154	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Our government proposes to amend the law on the use of funds from privatisation for two reasons. First of all, the law eliminates the target uses that have become obsolete. Secondly, the law is accompanied by provisions that allow the money from privatisation to be used in a new way. Why are we making these changes? What are the purposes of time? To date, the flow of money from privatisation has decreased considerably and will no longer allow ambitious projects to be financed. This bill limits the use of funds to the target uses, leaving only the financing of activities needed to speed up the completion of the ownership reform and to mitigate undesirable effects. The allocation of funds for the following purposes has been removed from the list of destinations: the development of entrepreneurship and the creation of the necessary environment and conditions for doing so, the resolution of employment problems, the elimination of environmental damage and the implementation of pension reform, as well as the needs associated with the privatisation of companies that ended decades ago. The law is accompanied by provisions allowing the proceeds of privatisation to be used for two new purposes: firstly, the maintenance, demolition, reorganisation, resettlement of residents or organisation of the corresponding activities of a building or part of a building that has not been used in the course of, or as a result of, the reform of property, and secondly, the granting of support to the churches in order to remedy the injustice caused by the violation of property rights in the course of the war and occupation. The primary need for an urgent amendment to the law was mainly due to the transfer to the State of maintenance and non-maintenance dwellings located in Ida-Virumaa. This possibility is provided for by law and cannot be refused by the State. The number of apartments surrendered to the State in the area of government of the Ministry of Finance is constantly increasing. The explanatory memorandum to the draft states 83, but it has now become more than double. According to recent data, 183 apartments have already been surrendered to the State. The government sees funds received from the Property Reform Reserve Fund as a quick-to-recoverable cover for the maintenance costs of the apartments transferred by the owners. In principle, the problem of the assignment of apartments is linked to the undesirable consequences of ownership reform: structural changes in the economy, labour relocations and so on. However, the current regime does not allow the resources of the Property Reform Reserve Fund to be used to remove such effects. Buildings that have not been hosted as a result of economic and social changes are not limited to housing. It also covers abandoned industrial and agricultural buildings and structures. They must be demolished to ensure safety in order to avoid negative impacts on the quality of the living environment. According to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, the government is developing a plan for the restructuring of housing in regions with declining populations. This programme also organises the maintenance, reorganisation, demolition and other activities of apartments abandoned to the State. From the Ownership Reform Reserve Fund, we plan to allocate EUR 1.15 million for this year and EUR 2.15 million for 2019 in the form of non-refundable support. The second objective of the draft is to compensate churches for the injustice caused by the violation of property rights. The Soviet repression forced the expropriation of sacral structures relevant to national culture in the 1940s, which, after decades of frequent misuse and poor maintenance, were returned in the course of the ownership reform, but in a state where the preservation of buildings is at risk and the purposeful use is difficult. As a rule, the preservation and restoration of objects under the protection of heritage requires material costs beyond the reach of smaller congregations. The sub-financing also does not compensate for grants in the fields of heritage conservation and the preservation and development of shrines. The amendment of the Act will allow a solution to the long-term property disputes with our major religious associations, i.e. the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and the Estonian Apostolic Orthodox Church. They are also directly and indirectly linked to the ownership reform. The Government of the Republic has had complex disputes with churches concerning the compensation of the building and land of the Church of Niguliste to the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and the compensation of the buildings and land of the Monastery of Petseri, as expected by the Estonian Apostolic Orthodox Church. The main issue is the reimbursement of valuable art and sacral property in church buildings. The Government of the Republic is of the opinion that long-term property disputes with churches that partially emerge from the ownership reform, since movable property is generally not the subject of ownership reform, must be brought to an end. This is possible by means of agreements, paying a lump sum to compensate for the damage suffered by them. In doing so, the churches have promised to waive all material requests and claims against the State and claims for the compensation of sacral assets and works of art, such as Bernt Notke's Death Dentist. Given that these are very valuable works of art that are important to Estonian culture, a reasonable compromise has been reached by granting support to churches. The reserve fund for ownership reform makes it possible to provide one-off support to churches for a total amount of 7.9 million euros, of which 6.75 million would be Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and 1.15 million would be Estonian Apostolic Orthodox Church. During the preparation and processing of the draft proposal, new proposals have been added to allow the property reform reserve fund to be used to ensure the preservation of building monuments in a wider context, i.e. not only for the preservation of sacral buildings. The draft submitted to the Riigikogu has not taken account of these proposals, but the author of the draft is in principle willing to support this idea if the proposal is submitted with convincing reasons during the Riigikogu procedure. With regard to this proposal too, we must bear in mind that the reduction in the reserve fund for property reform as a result of the privatization of the land will result in a rapid reduction of resources and, above all, the government must ensure that the direct costs of carrying out the property and land reform are covered. Members of the Riigikogu, I would like your support for the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U155	Questions to the representative of the initiator. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U156	Good minister! For me personally, it's quite startling how smoothly you've melted into the Central Criminal Party. This bill, even though you started out of the need to correct the law, is actually designed to legalize something illegal. It is designed to distribute money by ignoring purpose and bypassing the state budget. It started with the church, but now the Korb family's promises are being fulfilled in Kohtla-Järve: the state is starting to hog its property into decaying apartments that are beyond its control. Tell me if there have been any discussions in the government on this issue and if there have been any indications that the church is also questioning Estonia's legitimacy!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U157	Thank you very much. The answer is short. The main objective of this draft is to close a long-term dispute with churches. And when we look at the possible requirements of this dispute, they are considerably higher than the specific amount agreed in advance by the government. We can say that when this dispute ends, we have solved a long-term problem. I also think that this is not just a question of churches. The question here is also that the state saves something very important for Estonian culture, and it can control its preservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U158	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U159	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Minister, congratulations on your new profession. That's one. Secondly, when discussing this draft in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we also asked your predecessor, Jaak Aab, whether there is any understanding in the government that this draft essentially sends out the signal that Estonia was its own occupyer. While in the government, Jaak Aab answered this question so that there is still a Minister of Justice in the government, who has planned to recover losses from Russia. That's how we're going to have to ask what kind of policy the government is going to be. Do you think that this provision of money, which could have happened during any government period and have been given money to preserve sacral buildings, will damage the reputation of the state and the church? That is also in terms of future processes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U160	Thank you for your question. It won't. On the contrary, I think that the country shows itself to be a reasonable negotiating party in this particular dispute. I would point out, however, that the specific draft, the specific amounts, is a compromise, not just the allocation of money, but the closure of the dispute. Churches could, of course, be given much more money to clean up sacral buildings, as they are historic buildings under heritage protection that are important to us. And this, of course, does not only apply to churches, it also concerns other objects, but it does not concern this particular draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U161	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U162	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It is incredible that such a bill will arrive at the Riigikogu's table during the middle party government. This law is going to change absolutely the meaning of the property reform reserve fund. The Ownership Reform Reserve Fund has been designed to make good the consequences of the property reform, and their consequences have also been suffered by forced tenants, not by compensation for war damage. That is the question now. In my opinion, the goal is quite wrong if we start to pay the church the damage that was caused during the war. The same way we could ask anyone, listen, I lost this and this in the war. Pay for all this from the state budget, not from the property reform reserve fund!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U163	Thank you! The Riigikogu is able to adopt various laws and solutions to problems. I think one of the important objectives of this draft is to solve a long-term problem. The form in which this solution becomes a law is already a question of development.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U164	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In some ways, I repeat the above questions, but I will put mine in a slightly different wording. Under international law, occupation losses must be compensated by the occupation, not by the country that suffered the occupation. It's like there's no double-thinking around here. However, there is one point in this bill that says that among the changes planned in the Act on the Use of Money from Privatization is that the injustice of property rights in the course of the occupation must be corrected for the churches. What is the difference, Minister, between compensation for damage and redress for the injustice of property rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U166	If we mean two churches in particular, one is the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church, and the other is the Estonian Apostolic Orthodox Church, then if we disregard the exact legal wording, it must be acknowledged that these two churches have had a very large cultural influence on the people of Estonia for a long time. I think it is not a question of the emphasis we are putting on solving this problem. It is important to find a solution to this problem by looking together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U167	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You did not actually say that this bill was primarily motivated by the Chancellor of Justice's protest against the voluntaristic decision of the Government of the Republic, which, among other things, passed the Riigikogu. But here's my question. Why have you decided to come to the Riigikogu with such a solution? One could wait for proposals to be made to amend the state budget for the following year. Why such a solution, not a different one? And also: General and single intercourse tends to get a little confused during this presentation. I therefore ask how many churches are actually going to help or support this draft. Is this limited to the two, the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and the Estonian Apostolic Orthodox Church?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U169	I would say that there will be no very many possibilities for further contributions. However, the reserve fund is fading. This is because there are no new privatisations in fact, with relatively small amounts due to the Fund up to 2060. I'll check it out right now. I got a little table here. While EUR 7.6 million was received in 2017, this year's forecast is 6 million and only 4 million next year. So there is probably no way to finance a lot of new initiatives from there, but these two important things, however, are what we want to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U170	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I feel that I and many others here are not so disturbed by what the country wants to give the churches money for, but by the way it is being squirmed. First, the government made some kind of regulation, the Chancellor of Justice challenged it, and the members of the government were now going to jail. Then they changed tactics again. They're still sucking! And this slipping goes on by the fact that it's going to come in to compensate for the damage to the occupation. Estonia has not only been occupied by the Soviet Union; we have other occupations. The question is, can't we be honest and clear? Get that "ocupants" word out of there! Do not compensate for the damage to the occupation on behalf of the Republic of Estonia, because we were occupied! Then maybe there'll be peace in the house. Otherwise, I would advise anyone who broke the house during the March bombing or who was somehow harassed by the Germans to come to the government with your demands. You're creating a prejudicate!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U172	Thank you. Unfortunately, I was not in the process of developing this solution and, for objective reasons, I cannot say why such a solution was found. But I don't think all the important things, of course, can be done at once, but they should still be done in a row. However, we need not only these churches in order, but many other things. My main point now is that, even if this solution is not perfect, I recognise the Chancellor of Justice that he drew attention to these legal problems. All solutions should be correct, understandable, understandable. In this respect, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, I fully agree with you. But on the other hand, we must come to a common solution. In its current form, this train has gone on these tracks, but more important than where this train gets to is that it still arrives at its destination station.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U173	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! At the moment, there is a strong impression that if there is a problem in the country, we will take money out of our pocket and pay for the solution. It doesn't matter what the price is. You are trying to give the impression in this Chamber that this requirement has been very high and the amount we are now paying is very small. I have not heard from any questioner today that anyone would oppose the cultural ideology that considers it necessary to support the preservation of church buildings. It certainly isn't. At the same time, I support all those people who have pointed out that the loss of occupation caused by another country is very out of context. This can be very painful for us in the future, and it can also give us a sense of injustice. Would it not be more reasonable for the State to go to court so that it can be impartially determined what the value of the property is, or the amount that the State would have to pay at some point? That would be clear and understandable to the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U175	Thank you. As far as the solutions offered are concerned, this is certainly not the first situation in which major disputes and misunderstandings have arisen. I think that all your questions are aimed at finding the right solution together. There are, of course, problems that we do not want to solve, but this particular issue is precisely what we want to solve. In any case, I must agree that we need to find a way to resolve this problem. At this point in time, it is perhaps a concern that we have received specific promises from the churches, that if this law is adopted and concluded, they will waive their claims. I think this agreement is pretty important. Maybe this bill wouldn't have gotten here if it hadn't been agreed and they hadn't been negotiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U176	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U177	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, I have one clarification: on the basis of the information at my disposal, these claims have been waived in the sense that the other party has abandoned the case. But my question is that, in legal terms, churches-congregations are covered by the Non-Profit Associations Act. They are a form of non-profit organisations. Why did the government specifically highlight this one form? Or is there a plan to compensate other nonprofit organisations for the damage they have suffered during the reign of a foreign power?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U178	Thank you. I would point out in particular that the issue of the Church of Niguliste has been the subject of a debate for a very long time. As you know, there have been many public debates about whether it should be returned to the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and, if so, on what part. A major problem has arisen because this church has been substantially restored and the church would not have been able to compensate for the part of the renovation costs that it would have borne. I think that the solution to this problem, which has now arrived here, is precisely because the status of the Church of Niguliste needed to be established, not those apartments, but the churches. And it's not only important to a particular church, it's important to society as a whole, even because of Death Dance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U179	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I sincerely wish you every success, and I feel sorry for you that you now have to protect something that you have not been involved in and that you may not be right about the principle. I would repeat the point just made by my colleague, Mr Randpere. The weakest part of this draft is, in my opinion, indeed that the Republic of Estonia is taking on de jure occupational damage. It creates a precedent and any subsequent organisation or private person can contact the Republic of Estonia with another request of the same content. The second controversial point is that, on the one hand, you are worried about it, and rightly so, that the property reform reserve fund funds are decreasing in a row, but at the same time we are creating an entirely new and very significant cost line. Should actually be the right way to go. After all, there is a program of shrines, which has a ridiculously small amount of money in place. If the government wants to support the temples, let more money be made available and the problem solved without going down a curved road.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U181	Thank you, good Thomas! I would say that, of course, we do not need to solve the problem of a particular sacral building, but there are several hundred of these sacral buildings in Estonia. And it's not just about sacral buildings, it's about manor buildings. These are all things that have passed on the identity of the Estonian people. If there is a better solution to this problem, of course it must be used. But do you even solve this problem? This is where I'm gonna stay, that in any case it's gonna have to be done. I have never thought that if a specific legal solution does not lead to a result, it should be abandoned at all. I remember that when I studied at the University of Tartu Institute of Law, Eerik-Juhan Truuväli, the former Chancellor of Justice, told us in a lecture: young people, if the law is stupid, not to follow the law, but to change the law. I think that this idea could be a basic philosophy that should also be used to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U182	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U183	Thank you. You just said you didn't know how this decision was made, you weren't there. Now you're talking about the philosophy level of what the philosophy of this law is. But I liked the sentence where you said it didn't matter what the destination was, as long as the train gets there at the destination station. It's about the same that it doesn't matter what the problem is, but we have a solution, and the solution, of course, is to give money. Provide interest groups, despite setting a precedent, despite violating legal continuity, to Kohtla-Järve and the church. If it doesn't work out, we'll change the law! Tell me, did they tell you all about this in the government? You really haven't been there, and my first question to you was that you didn't really answer it, whether the government really opened up to you the complexity of this problem. Or is it that the problem is being overridden and a solution is being proposed, which is simply the distribution of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U184	Thank you. Of course, I've read all the documents. I've been trying to make this as clear as I can. But I just wanted to say that I wasn't there for the birth of this particular bill. That was my point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U185	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The proposal of the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Estonian Heritage Society has been answered that their proposal is generally good, but has no impact analysis and has not been thought out. I'm asking where's the impact analysis of taking over all these apartments, their future scenario. It has been noted that industrial buildings may also be handed over. Where is this impact analysis? As your fresh minister, I think you also asked this question and received an answer which, unfortunately, is not in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U187	Thank you. Analysis complete. The analysis was quite thorough, and the picture is sad. The problem is that there are a number of very complex legal issues here. Take, for example, a house with 30 apartments in Kohtla-Järve, where there are four people or four families. What can the state do if all these empty apartments belong to the state at one point, but these people are not interested in moving from their home somewhere else? They are not even interested in considering it and there is no legal basis for asking them to move away. So this analysis is done and the picture is sad. If you want to get exact numbers, we can send you a written reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U188	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U189	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You're not going to convince us of these answers. You are convincing us with these answers that we are dealing with a very clear legal cull and very clear legal voluntarism. But you probably don't understand, and the government as a whole doesn't realize that you're opening a real Pandora box right now. I have been present when the Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate and the Republic of Estonia had very sharp and fundamental disputes over the issue of ownership. Now we're going to compensate for the occupation damage to the two churches. But we also have a third church, under the direct authority of our neighbouring country, which, according to this draft, would also be able to apply for compensation for occupation losses. And in that case, we're going to compensate the occupying person for the damage to his occupation. Have you understood this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U190	Thank you. Once again, when it comes specifically to the Lutheran Church of Estonia and our Apostolic Orthodox Church, the most important thing is the agreement that has been reached. This is actually the starting point: the withdrawal of claims and so on. That's the starting point, and that's what I'm gonna stick to.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U191	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U192	Thank you. Good minister! I still hope you understand from these questions that the problem is not that churches, sacral buildings, receive money. I myself have been involved in drawing up agreements prepared at government level, and there is nothing unusual about it for any government. The problem is in this same signal, in the same sense that Estonia has been like its own occupation. In your wording, this problem is complex, so let's make it easy. This is very simple: claims are exchanged for money. The problem is actually as simple as that, and it can be done by people without a higher level of legal education. Now, I have a question for you. You said if there's a better solution, we'll pick it. I ask: would it be a better solution for the government to honestly say that claims are being exchanged for money and to resolve this issue without becoming the occupyer itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U193	I would stress that this is a value decision concerning these agreements. And if there is such a solution that leads us to the goal and, as I understand from your question, is better and more appropriate, then, of course, it is possible to choose it during the procedure of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U194	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U195	Good manager and minister! The Chancellor of Justice said today in the Group that no money must be taken from this pot and that this is one of the few cases where he is 100% convinced of it. At the same time, the Heritage Society and the Owners' Confederation have proposed to provide money to ensure the preservation of the building monuments returned during the ownership reform, but this proposal has not been taken into account. Instead, this Pandora Box is open and it is intended to compensate for the damage to the occupation. Churches should be helped, that's clear, but the money pot should be different. The government's justification is like a saddle on a pig. What do you think about this, maybe you could count on a proposal from the Heritage Society and take out the words 'in the process' or come up with another bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U196	I say that if it seems to the honourable Riigikogu that a specific solution needs to be changed, then we do not have a law yet. This is a draft, this is only the first reading and there are a number of positions. There are people who say that this can be done, and as we have heard today, there are opposite views. So let's do this together!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U197	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I come back to my previous question, which I tried to make quite clear, but I did not really get an answer. In fact, there was no answer to one side at all. I understand that with this legislative amendment, there is a one-time support for two churches or a sacral building, and then more or less is out of money. That's as far as you can see. All the more so is the second part of my question: why is this problem not solved in the context of the State Budget Act or its amendment? Why is it amended by this law, changing the principles of using the money from privatisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U199	Thank you for your question. I'll try to be precise. Firstly, EUR 7.9 million is the amount of this specific allocation. There are currently 13 million available funds in the fund, so it does not take away everything there is. And there's money coming in and out of the fund. This was now the first point. Second point... I would like to clarify once what the second question was! Okay, I can't. Okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U200	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U201	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I have been in the Riigikogu for seven years, and for the first time I have discovered that I agree with Heimar Leng. This tells me that in the Republic of Estonia, things are still very wrong when they happen. I think there's something very wrong with this bill. In fact, Kristen quite rightly pointed out here that we are exchanging claims for money. But you're in the remote and you're always talking about okay, in law we're talking about occupation damage, but actually, we kind of agree that they're gonna take back their claims and then we're gonna make separate contracts. I was wondering if the faculty Truuvälja told you anything about fake transactions. What you're doing now smells like a very fake deal. If you take your story in the verbatim, the bill and subsequent contracts side by side, this transaction may prove null and void because it is a fake transaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U202	Thank you for your question. But right now, you kind of referred to it as the law. It's not a law, it's just a bill. There's a very big difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U203	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U204	Minister, thank you very much. I listened to your report, and I had questions. What does property reform have to do with empty apartments in Kohtla-Järve? How did the state come to an agreement with the churches in a few months, but the tenants' agreement awaits the signing of the 27th year? And if we compensate for the land of the monastery left in Russia during the war, why don't we compensate the Setos for the land left in Russia and the farms? Perhaps you'd philosophize a little, you know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U205	That was a good question, and I can philosophize. Thank you. I think the biggest connection is that the economic structure of Kohtla-Järve and not only Kohtla-Järve, but also of Valga and many other Estonian cities has changed so much that we have nothing to do with these assets. Nor is there a legal solution to what to do with them, and the costs will all be borne by the State. That's a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U206	Ladies and gentlemen, Good afternoon. The next question is on Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U207	I wanted to clarify Valdo Randper's comment. Jenny Ananyeva, not the Loyal Field, was talking about fake transactions. But basically, of course, it's the right thing to do. The most important problem with this bill is its screaming hypocrisy. I mean, it's, like I said, that the claim is replaced by money, but instead we're writing things in here that nobody believes. For example, we want to compensate for the fact that the ECB's Tartu City Committee denigrated the church, ruined the church's social reputation. I've got a surprise for myself! My suggestion is how would you look at it? The fact that you are now taking back this bill nicely. There is no point in dealing with this, for it is a face-to-face of the government's screaming pretense and hypocrisy. The government does not dare to say a very simple thing: the church is particularly important in Estonia, the church is not just an NGO. And if you don't dare say it, that's when the tricks that, as it turns out, don't satisfy either Lenk or Randpere. Who would have thought?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U208	Thank you, Honourable Igor. I say the government dares say yes. The church is particularly important, as a member of the government, I can confirm that here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U209	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U210	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! In the table of comments and proposals, the proposal of the Estonian Owners' Confederation and the Estonian Heritage Society has been answered as follows. In order to ensure the preservation of building monuments, the fund's money has been requested to approve the new function and the answer is: 'Not taken into account. In view of the dwindling resources of the Reserve Fund for Ownership Reform, we must bear in mind that the introduction of new uses will reduce opportunities to meet other needs. ' Paragraph 1 of the draft law reduces these functions. What other functions can we talk about when using the fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U211	Now, that was such a long question that I would ask you to repeat it. You can't? Then you can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U212	That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U213	All right. In short, those functions that have lost their purpose, I listed. These were the allocation of funds for the development of entrepreneurship, which was previously possible, to address employment problems, to eliminate environmental damage. They're all out of the law. The number of functions for which the reserve fund can be used has been reduced all the time, as the receipts have also decreased. So the end of the reserve fund is coming anyway. The whole issue could be resolved more quickly than it has been discussed by 2060, but unfortunately the problem is that the privatisation contracts that have taken place have happened in such a way that they are so favourable that people are not interested in their earlier termination.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U214	Thank you. Minister, you said it was a value decision. Please explain to the person who has lost his home because of the ownership reform, who has waited 27 years for justice, why he is less valuable than, for example, the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church, for whom a solution will be found in a few months! Is it because this person doesn't have any pre-war pledges, sacralware, and artwork? The ordinary working person does not have the requirements to extort compensation, but the desire for his or her country to behave fairly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U215	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U216	Thank you. The answer is simple: it took more than 20 years to find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U217	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U218	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, I don't mind giving money to clean up church buildings either. However, this 7 million should be budgeted on the line of the Ministry of Culture, which currently has EUR 700000 for the Holy Houses programme. The problem is how, in what way, you will solve this problem. You're gonna settle this by passing the budget, and this is where the Minister of Finance is supposed to step in. However, we do not have a Minister for Finance, that is what we saw during the debate on the country's budgetary strategy. Why are you solving this question via the side road? It is not only the opposition that is protesting against this, but also the coalition. That's the problem! If it is an unpredictable cost and a legal dispute settlement, then there is a government reserve fund. I'm asking you: if this separation of funds were to be made through the government reserve fund, as prescribed by the current regime, would we not be able to achieve the same goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U219	Thank you for your question. I think, of course, all the proposals deserve to be considered. I do not think at all that all the problems that you have brought forward together here deserve to be discussed. I'm sure they do! Since I have not been involved in the preparation of the state budget and other activities in the past, I just think that, as you yourself pointed out, we need to find a solution. And the solution must be reached together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U220	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U221	Thank you. We have seen different characters on the remote and heard very, very different demagoguery, but you have taken a much further step in this Chamber at the first time. You have literally begun to insult the Riigikogu with your non-response, with your spin. You just think we're stupid, not to say stupid. No one can be satisfied with that. But let's talk about principles. Do you think that Estonia was occupied and do you consider it normal that the occupied country would compensate for the occupation damage? And this time, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U222	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! I hold all members of the Riigikogu without exception to everyone! - Very clever. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] And Estonia was occupied until 1940.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U223	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. On the contrary, in order to balance the situation, I would like to thank you sincerely and acknowledge the respect you have shown for the members of the Riigikogu. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U225	Ladies and gentlemen, peace! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U226	On the contrary, I would like to thank the Minister for his respect for the opinions of members of the Riigikogu. In this Chamber, ministers at first reading have such a view that the presentation of possible alternatives is seriously considered, as the members of the Riigikogu have not been happy with the draft. And second of all, I feel sorry for you because you've also come under the heat of the members of your home party in this Chamber, even though they are one of the initiators of this bill. I repeat once again: no one is opposed to solving the problems that are the subject of this draft, but the path chosen is not the right one. But yes, it would be a new political culture if the government really understood that this was not an appropriate solution and found an alternative solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U227	Thank you. Once we have examined all these proposals, we will certainly try to find a common solution that you can accept. I already have a feeling that you all would very much like to give this money to the churches, only we have not reached a common agreement on how.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U228	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I come to the point of the draft concerning the cost of maintenance of apartments surrendered by the owner. The Ministry of Finance currently owns 83 apartments and 51 of them are located in Kohtla-Järve. 78 apartments were sold last year, 30 of which were sold by Kohtla-Järve City in one transaction. I understand why these maintenance obligations need to be met, and this is to guarantee the rights of other residents. But why does the State assume these obligations? Why is this not a local government task? They can solve these problems there. Why do we commit this country and pay from this fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U230	Thank you. I'll try to keep up with you. First of all, the number of these apartments is actually 183 by now. I don't know if I heard you right, you said 83. This figure is 183, and the country has no way of not accepting these apartments. This is a legally very absurd situation at the moment: if the local government does not want to deal with them, it will give them to the state and the state will have to adopt them. So if we do not make any significant change here, then it may be that these unfortunate parts of the city, I would not say unhappy cities, but unfortunate parts of the city, will all belong to the state in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Now, if you would like to explain, what is the connection between the houses built for their country during the Soviet era and the property reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U232	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U233	I don't want to answer vaguely. I would answer that question in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U234	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I don't know if you've noticed any people supporting this bill in this hall. But I hope these people show up at some point. I think you have been quite honest today, in that you have told us that the claim is indeed being exchanged for money, and you have also exchanged your claim for money. In order to be a minister, you had to step into the Centre Party, and that's what you said in public, when the minister's term is over, you'll step out. In this sense, everything is balanced and you speak adequate words. What I absolutely don't understand is if you say that the state might actually have parts of the city and take away the local government's work. In fact, the current government has said that the local government should get more money, they are very good and we will contribute more to them. I'm asking why you don't change the law. You almost said we had nothing to do, we have to take all these apartments. Why don't you want to change the law so that the local government is responsible for what it's been called into life?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U236	Thank you. I think it is necessary to initiate a number of legislative changes to address this problem. But this problem is relatively new for the country, directly linked to the demographic situation. Now the people who didn't change their place of residence are leaving their lives. And if the value of the apartment in Kohtla-Järve, for example, is 0 euros and you inherit such an apartment, then the utility costs can be 80 or 100 euros per month. You're down anyway, and in that case, people give up their apartment to the local government. And the local government, which does not want to bear this cost, will hand over these apartments to the state. This is the nature of the current problem. And this regulation really needs to be changed, this problem needs to be resolved. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U237	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U238	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. From this whole discussion, I hope you also understand that this is a legal cover for the match between the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church and the government. And in order to legalise this fit as much as possible, the word 'ocupulation damage' has also been introduced, which unfortunately works against this bill. My recommendation to you, this is not a question of the government putting you in a tank as a fresh minister. Go to the Prime Minister, put this bill on the table and say: if the government does not withdraw this bill, I will resign.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U239	I have nothing to comment on because there was no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U240	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U241	Thank you. I am still forced to ask once again: why do you give money to the churches that are not subject to the ORAS, to remedy injustice born with the reform of property rights? Why don't you give me that money from the budget? We're in favour of giving money to the churches, but you're giving it from the wrong place. And by the way, the Chancellor of Justice doesn't think it's right at all today that we compensate churches for their movable property in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U242	Thank you. I am pleased that we have received an important vote of support from both the coalition and the opposition to resolve this problem. Now we just have to look together for how to solve it so that the Riigikogu can approve it. I cannot say that all the solutions proposed in this draft are certainly the best. If the Chancellor of Justice refers to significant shortcomings, they must in any case be resolved here, there is no question at all. At the same time, I also think that there are perhaps a little too many laws in Estonia. This is not only referred to by lawyers, but also by a number of politicians. It has sometimes been difficult to reconcile all this maze with each other in earlier times.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U243	In the course of the first reading, it is necessary to decide whether or not it makes sense to go ahead with this. The hall is unanimous: it cannot go on for the simple reason that it may solve one problem to some extent, but it also raises and creates new problems. Accepting the bill would create another law that makes it worse. We are all in agreement here: there are traitors to the Soviet homeland, there are Marxists, Liberals, Social Democrats, Conservatives. We are all here, like one man with one accord, it is not a conflict between parties; it is a contradiction between the Government of the Republic versus Parliament. If the government's aim is simply to humiliate Parliament, then there is no point in discussing it further. Would it be wise to say to the government: men, we have done shit, we will withdraw this bill quickly and we will deal with the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U244	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U245	Thank you. I cannot speak on behalf of the whole government, of course, but the meeting of the government is tomorrow, and it may be possible to discuss this with other members of the government. I understand your concern. Nor do I like to make a decision that really upsets someone and creates new problems. But I am pleased that this objective, which is set out in this particular draft, is a common concern for all of us. Both of these problems are our common concern, not only for these churches, but also specifically for these apartments. Let us look at the regional development of Estonia! I think even those who are very fond of living in Tallinn will understand that if the average age of the population in Viimsi is 38 years and there is something wrong with the picture in Piirissaare 67 years. These are two drastic examples: the municipality with the youngest population and the oldest population. But here's the situation. Your concerns I understand extraordinarily well, you also understand the concerns of the government. Once an agreement has been reached, it must be achieved as well. But at this point, it is still just a first reading, and we still have a very long way to go to get to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U246	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U247	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Today is actually a big day in Kohtla-Järve. The new minister, Mr Sikkut, presented a draft for health professionals, which concerns in particular the problem of the Ida-Viru Central Hospital in Kohtla-Järve, how to find doctors and nurses. And you came to the hall with the second Kohtla-Järve bill, and in this town, most empty apartments, the fate of which should be decided. Have you thought you could have done one bill for two: the Kohtla-Järve draft law on solving problems? Could have solved the important thing. These church matters would have put somewhere else in the bill and forced tenants in the third. We could have got three good drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U248	Thank you. I'm afraid that would have made the situation even more complicated and the bill more intimidating. So I'd rather think it wasn't the right way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U249	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U250	Thank you. The Ownership Reform Reserve Fund was created to protect ordinary people. This draft essentially proposes taking the weakest and giving it to the stronger. Why is an early church considered to be more valuable than a person who has lost his home because of property reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U251	No, they don't! If we look at all the historical cultural values that are both in Estonia and in other countries, we know that it is extremely expensive to preserve them and I would say that it is also arduous. There are big contradictions, questions arise as to why we have to preserve these museums, why we have to keep all the objects. Let us see what has happened in Western Europe! A large number of churches have found a completely new function, even in the form of apartments, etc. The most difficult question in Estonia is perhaps due to the fact that the concentration of cultural assets is significantly lower than in some prominent Western European countries. I therefore believe that maintaining and maintaining churches, as well as manors and other historic buildings, is also in the interest of all ordinary people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U252	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U253	Thank you. Good Minister Janek! I see your embarrassment and concern that your home party will not support you. This is certainly an extremely disgusting situation for one minister if his home party, or at least part of it, does not support the draft he is presenting. I know your day-to-day field of work before becoming a minister was communication, relationship management. However, you have received a lawyer's diploma and I will update your knowledge of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. There is paragraph 95, which states that the originator or performer has the right to withdraw the draft which he has initiated or submitted at any time. Seeing the spirit of this hall and knowing that the source from which money is to be taken to solve the problem is wrong is that the political message about the recognition of the occupation as if the Estonian state itself were wrong, that the home party did not support the draft, would you perhaps take back this bill and come to us with a fresh, new draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U254	Thank you. I am pleased that you referred to the fact that the draft can be withdrawn at any time. However, I think you understand that in two weeks or even a week, it will not be possible to think through the details and negotiate them. I'm not really saying I'm embarrassed. I followed this process before, not knowing that I had to report here. But we're definitely considering alternative solutions. As I understand it, the majority of the members of the Riigikogu support the resolution of this problem. The question is rather a way, and we must find a way that is acceptable to everyone, not only politically but also emotionally.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U255	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U256	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Minister! In the light of today's bill, how meaningful are you to build rental houses for Kohtla-Järve in Ida-Virumaa? How can we be confident that new tenants will be more tax-efficient than previous tenants?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U257	Thank you. Maybe you don't need any new tenants at all. The question about Kohtla-Järve is that people need to move in together. If there are big houses with only a few windows of light from time to time, then the solution may also mean that only one or two houses will be replaced.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U258	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U259	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question is about the property of the monastery of Petseri. I don't know, if you haven't been able to prepare for this, maybe you'll answer in writing. But I heard from the people involved in the ownership reform that Petseri's monastery either refused to apply or at least de facto did not recover any of the assets that are currently on this side of the control line. I don't know if there's a written record of it or if it's just like that. Do you know that Petseri's monastery has now given some reliable proof that he has no objection to such a solution and that he has given up his claim firmly, that he does not want these things back?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U260	Thank you for your question. I will answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U261	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U262	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I really hope you prepared yourself to come here and answer questions very well. Did you also have the opportunity to meet with the Chancellor of Justice and ask him for his position on the matter? The Chancellor of Justice has, of course, said a great deal before that such a solution would not be appropriate. Could you speak to the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U263	Thank you. Personally, I haven't spoken to him, but the people of the ministry and the people of the Chancellor of Justice's office have been communicating with each other, as I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U264	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U265	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'm reading page 3 of the explanatory memorandum, which states a government decision that I don't think bears the same logic. The Government takes the view that, as requested by the churches, they could be granted a one-off grant to compensate for the damage suffered. But the bill doesn't say anywhere that it's a one-off grant. Perhaps other churches or other congregations in the same churches can ask for this support? Why does the government behave in two ways? On the one hand, he says he wants to support one-off, i.e. it would be reasonable to use the reserve fund, but the draft does not support this principle of once-in-a-lifetime, but refers to long-termity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U266	Thank you. If there is a contradiction here, it must be eliminated. However, the draft relates to two specific disputes where one party waives its claims and the other compensates for it with one-off support. That's the idea of a bill now. However, it is not excluded that this legislative amendment, once implemented, will resolve any other similar problems that may arise in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U267	Thank you. You started with the churches, but I ask you: when will you begin to solve the concerns of the victims of property reform, the forced tenants? And also: how does compensating for the lands of the Petseri monastery contribute to the preservation of Estonian cultural wealth? I haven't quite figured it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U268	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U269	Thank you. There were now two questions. As far as the tenants are concerned, I understand that this problem exists in society. And if there is a problem in society, then a common solution must be sought. As far as the agreements with the two specific churches are concerned, it took a very long time, even years, to achieve them. So I dare not allow the issue of forced tenants to be solved in an instant, but let's do things in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U270	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U271	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I may have been convinced by some of your answers that we really do have art values that need to be preserved, which must be preserved. This is very important in terms of culture. But here's my question. Let me get this straight. That's what this money is going to be for the preservation of art values, not, I don't know, like real estate development or somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U272	Thank you. According to my understanding, according to the information that I have today, the money that goes to the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church is the vast majority of this amount, as I mentioned, more than 6 million euros, has already been found. One concrete example is the renovation of Tallinn Dome Church. This is Estonia's most important sacral buildings ever. So there's no real estate development, if that word is even appropriate in this context, I don't think there's a plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U273	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U274	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, congratulations on my membership of the Central Party! What else do I have to wish for? But when you answered a good questioner about a quarter of an hour ago, you mentioned the aspect of regional development and the average age of the population by region. This is a very important subject that will also link your statements on the "Actual Camera" days of the week. I also asked the Prime Minister who did not know how to answer this question, but tried to protect you. Why don't you explain in your own words how your vision of regional development ties in with what is very important, as you have said today, that marginalisation and regional inequality are inevitable and a global trend that cannot be influenced by political decisions? Isn't it a two-faced way to come here and pour crocodile tears over regional developments while you're telling the public there's nothing you can do? Then why are you a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U275	Thank you. This question, of course, does not concern this particular draft, but I will answer it. First of all, thank you for your congratulations. The comment is that let's look at the numbers, the statistics! Kristjan Port made a presentation at Postimees' lunch of opinion leaders, saying that a few dozen of the 100 important world centers will be left in a few decades' time. It is primarily a question of trends. Can they be influenced politically? Well, people can't really be forced to live anywhere, but conditions can be created. It was my idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U276	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U277	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns this bill, I come back to the subject of apartments. The number 83 I mentioned is on page 2 of the explanatory memorandum. If it's only grown by a hundred in the last few months, fine. But it doesn't matter. The question is that you said in one of your first answers that if the law is wrong, you do not have to comply with it, but you have to change the law. In answering my question, you said that there is no way for the state to refuse these apartments; it must accept them. Shouldn't the law be amended and things organised differently, not that the state will pay the city of Kohtla-Järve for maintenance costs that will grow very quickly? Maybe we should change some laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U278	Thank you. I already mentioned in my speech that 83 in the explanatory memorandum have already turned 183. The magic of numbers! But as for whether the law should be amended, yes, it should. Sure you should, but which way? I don't think we can in these cities.. Kohtla-Järve is one example, Valga is another example, and in the future the same problem will be faced if these trends persist, certainly Narva too, the whole obligation to put the local government to the neck. That's actually impossible. Since we cannot force people to live anywhere, it is precisely the state that must help to solve these problems. These ghost castles must either be demolished or given another function. In the case of any real estate, the first question is what its function is. Today, just a lot of apartments in remote and former industrial areas have lost their function.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U279	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U280	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I do not agree with you, precisely with the answer you said that local governments have autonomy. My question to you as a lawyer is this. If local government leaders prove unhelpful to solve some of the problems, is there any legal basis for declaring the spiritual bankruptcy of a private individual against these local government leaders and organising new local elections in order to become more capable people who can solve problems? Actually, we're setting a precedent right now. The next local government will find, but why do our citizens have to pay for the electricity so that they don't pay, the state will pay the debt. This may lead to a domino effect, which, unfortunately, is not an effect, but an already defective effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U281	Thank you. The Republic of Estonia is a democratic republic where local government elections and Riigikogu elections are held every four years. I believe that in both local governments and the country, the best people who fit in and want to get there will be chosen at the top. We sometimes have a problem just because the most talented and the most powerful want to do something other than run the country. At least that's what it feels like to judge by your comment. However, I believe that elections are the best way to make a significant difference to things that seem to be poorly resolved or very badly resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U282	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U283	Thank you. This bill talks about apartments that have been surrendered to the state. Well, the goal is to bring people together and to tear down these ghost castles. What, though, if there are owners who do not agree to move? That's one. Secondly, there are dozens and dozens of apartments in Kohtla-Järve and Narva, and not only apartments, but also large buildings in the centre of Narva, even one large restaurant building owned by Russian citizens who do not live in Estonia, but in Russia, who do not pay rent, who cannot be reached, who cannot even be sued for it because they do not know where they are. What solution could there be to get these houses and apartments and empty them so they can be demolished? Because if you don't get them, you can't do it. Or what solution do you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U284	Thank you. To this end, the law must be amended so that the state can, if there is such a situation, force people to do so. There is currently no such legal option, and that is a very big problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U285	Thank you. I will continue on my previous question as to why I proposed that you withdraw this draft. The reason is actually very simple. Firstly, this bill does not seem to have any support in this Chamber, and if the government is making a mistake, it is Parliament's task to tell the government that you are doing the wrong thing. Like I said, the source of the money is wrong, and the motive is wrong. Now, in an earlier response, you said something about a good deal, and once it's done, the law has to be changed. I ask you this way: how do you feel about this process being what good legislation requires? If we have a law, maybe the government should, above all, follow the law and act on it, not make an extralegal agreement and then come to Parliament to legitimise it? This is a problem that makes it reasonable to withdraw this bill today and come to us in a month or later with a new draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U286	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U287	Thank you. The proposal deserves consideration. But what I'm also saying is that as far as I'm concerned about this particular set of problems, there seem to be two very important facts at stake here. The first is that there is a problem, and the second is that it has to be solved. I am pleased that a large part of the hall understands both of these facts, as I do. The only question I think is how to do it in concrete terms. And this debate shows that we must work together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U288	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My new question relates directly to this bill. Coming back to the occupation damage. Leaving aside your misconceptions and the false history fact that you have claimed, I would like to say that the loss of occupation should still be compensated by the one responsible for the occupation. A few years ago, the Minister of Justice, who is currently also in office, together with his Latvian and Lithuanian colleague, initiated the process of detecting occupation losses. This, unfortunately, has not achieved any significant results. As a fresh member of the Cabinet, you are now directly involved in this issue, and as you have repeatedly mentioned, another government hearing will take place tomorrow morning. Will you put this question on the table there to point out that the identification of occupation losses must go on and make a claim for damages to the State responsible for the occupation? Are you gonna do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U290	Thank you for your question. I believe that the proposal put forward in a specific wording does not fall within my remit. But as a member of the government, I think that if a minister has initiated a process, he must either end it himself or go to the end of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U291	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U292	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I understand from your answers that you have not been familiar with the Chancellor of Justice's position within the framework of this draft. However, you have stressed here that we have a major problem and that this problem should be resolved. The question is what solutions will be found here. It seems to me that there is no consistency between the Chancellor of Justice's views and the solution to this problem. That is my question: if the procedure for this draft goes on, will you also meet the Chancellor of Justice and examine his position?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U293	Thank you. I made it quite clear that I have not met the Chancellor of Justice separately to discuss this issue, but I have been familiar with his views. If this procedure goes on, I will certainly talk to the Chancellor of Justice about it separately. We've had a brief conversation about seeing each other in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U294	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U295	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This question comes from a Member who has worked even less in this Riigikogu than your minister. From today's session, I have come to the understanding that parliamentarianism is at a very high level in Estonia, one might even say that it is in an upward phase. What are your conclusions from today's sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U296	Thank you. My conclusions do not concern a specific draft law, but I will reply anyway. My impression is that it's actually pretty hard to stand here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U297	Minister Mäggi! There are no further questions for you from the members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U299	I would like to present a speech chair to Märt Sults, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U300	Honourable manager! Colleagues! On Monday 30 April, including its regular session, the Economic Commission discussed draft Act 614 amending the Act on the Use of Money from Privatisation, initiated by the Government of the Republic, in order to send it to first reading. The meeting was chaired by Honourable Sven Sester and the minutes by Annaliisa Jame. Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Adviser-Secretariat Manager Kaido Rosin, Adviser Marin Daniel and Adviser Piia Schults took part in the meeting. Toomas Kivimägi was missing. Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, and Uku Hänni, Adviser to the Treasury Department were invited. The meeting was fundamental and concise. Jaanus Marrand asked questions, Jaak Aab replied, Sven Sester corrected, Märt Sults asked for explanations, Tarmo Kruusimäe received a question of exactly the same kind as in the Chamber. Of course, the debate in the Chamber was much, much more concise and denser than in the Commission. By the way, the Commission decided to appoint me rapporteur (decision was consensus, voted by Deniss Boroditš, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrand, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru, Sven Sester and Tarmo Kruusimäe), second, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the plenary assembly on 9 May at 14 p.m. (the vote was consensus, Deniss Boroditš, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi Sults, Raivo Põldaruismäe, Sven Sester and Tarmo Kruusimäe were voters), thirdly, the Commission decided to stop the first reading (the votes were Deniss Boroditš, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marandi, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaruusi and Tarmo Kruusimäe) and to propose that the amendments be submitted by 10 working days, i.e. 23 May 2018 at 17:00 (the votes were by Sõven, Sõllits, Sõrdis, Sõll, Sõllus, Sõllus, Sõllus, Sõllus, Sõllus, Erruusi). The protocol is signed by Sven Sester and Annaliisa Rough. The excerpt is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U301	Thank you. Question one, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U302	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have a question about the bill. I quote: 'paragraph 7 (11) is supplemented by points 7 and 8 as follows: '7) in the course of the ownership reform or as a result, the maintenance, demolition, reorganisation of a building or part of a building that has not been used as a result (I now pay attention. "H-V. S.), costs relating to the resettlement of residents or the organisation of the corresponding activities'. The town of Kohtla-Järve was founded in 1946. There is a great deal of question here as to whether there were problems with the ownership reform and whether these problems could be linked to the ownership reform. I'm asking you now, but what happens if you don't. It appears from the explanatory memorandum that people are relocated from one building to another in Kohtla-Järve if some buildings are very sparsely populated. Is it clear from this that these are the direct consequences of the ownership reform, that it is intended to resettle forced tenants? Did the Commission have a discussion on this or how it should be understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U303	Thank you. That's a good question. That was discussed. Tarmo asked a similar question in the Commission. I am sorry, Mr Tarmo Kruusimäe asked a similar question and, figuratively speaking, the subject was put from one pocket to another. It wasn't like we were talking about resettled. We were talking about moving in together.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U304	Good rapporteur, I will specify for a moment the deadline for tabling amendments. Is it 5:00 or 5:15?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U305	5:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U306	Got it. Thank you. Next question, George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U307	Mr. Waitress! During the preparation of the draft, did the Commission become aware of any facts relating to the property of the monastery of Petseri?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U308	Thank you. That's a good question. I mean, Petser's monastery wasn't on the committee's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U309	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U310	Thank you, President-in-Office. A good Commission waitress, my colleague. I congratulate the Commission on its genuine consensus and consensual work. But my question is that today, the hall is doing real parliamentary work, asking for and discussing very actively. Could it have been assumed at the meeting of the Commission that this matter would give rise to such a different view in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U311	I mean, when you start the engine, you never know how chemical and physical-chemical processes start, when conditions change or fluctuate. Exactly the same is true of the Commission's decision. The hall must act as it did today, because we have a parliamentary society, a parliamentary regime. Excellent!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U312	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U313	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I heard you say there were consensual votes in the committee. Consensus is, as far as I know, a form of consent, not a vote. Let me be clear about what happened in the committee. Were there votes or consensual consents to these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U314	Thank you. Very good focus! Literally, we have not had a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U315	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U316	Thank you. I have an explanation for the continuation of the previous question. You can read in the record. Was there really consensus in the Commission on this issue to send the draft to the Chamber and finish the first reading? Wasn't anyone in the Commission opposed, everyone agreed? Please confirm that this is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U317	Thank you. Very good question, very good focus. I also point out that I haven't been drinking alcohol in 23 years, so I remember what happened in that committee. Yes, everyone agreed consensually to send the hall and finish the first reading. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U318	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U319	Thank you. Dear waitress, If you remember so well for the last 23 years, perhaps you will explain a little to me and perhaps to others who have not been so much able to go into the matter, what were the specific questions in the Commission for Minister Jaak Aab and what were the answers. We found out who said something in general, but what exactly did they say?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U320	Thank you very much for your question. What can I be more happy to be a waitress than to talk on the remote? I can read all this protocol nicely to you because I really like it. [[???Hõiked saalist: 'Ära jama!'???]] I mean, Sven Sester asked if a clearly increased trend in the assignment of apartments to the state could continue. As Jaak Aab replied, "Demography. " Jaanus Marrandi examined whether in addition to the two churches mentioned in the explanatory memorandum regarding compensation for occupation damage and redress for injustice, there were other churches in Estonia and other buildings to which similar damage should be compensated. March Sults asked for an explanation in the explanatory memorandum about bringing up churches. Jaak Aab answered. (J.Ligi approaches the speaker board and says something quietly to M.Sults.) Please don't spoil my privacy, Mr. Ligi! I mean, you said there was a middle-criminogenic party, but don't come so close! Tarmo Kruusimäe asked whether it would be possible to rescind the dwelling later and recover the dwelling abandoned to the State, which would then be a sale-and-purchase agreement back and forth. I mean, that's not possible. According to Uku Hänn, it is possible to submit an application, there is no legislative regulation, it is possible to return the transferred dwellings after a certain period. This is how Uku Hänni replied, who is actually the architect of the death of the Property Reform Act. Tarmo Kruusimäe studied the capabilities of Riigi Kinnisvara AS and the possibilities of changing abandoned dwellings and their accompanying parcels. Jaak Aab replied that on the basis of certain contracts, Riigi Kinnisvara AS will handle this. Kaido Rosin asked whether the Chancellor of Justice had been consulted and received feedback on the solutions offered to churches in the draft. Jaak Aab replied that he did. Sven Sester was investigating the property reform forecast. According to Uku Hänni, the land reform is unfinished, mainly the privatisation of land and the return of assets. Kristen Michal examined why the coverage of the costs of pension reform and the development of the various financial markets has been excluded from the use of the Property Reform Reserve Fund. Jaak Aab answered. Uku Hänni added that due to the small volume of the reserve fund this would not be possible. Kaido Rosin put together a meeting. That's how the meeting went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U321	Thank you, good waitress. Oh, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U322	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Could you be more specific? Some of the points in your answer were still confusing. What exactly was in this protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U323	Please specify the question. I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U324	I would, however, like you to repeat the final part. What was in that part of the end, the last three questions that were in the protocol, and the answers? Would you be so kind!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U325	The last three questions. Since whose question? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] So, you can't talk about Tarmo Kruusimäe studying, because that's not a question. Ah, Tarmo Kruusimäe asked whether it would be possible to rescind the dwellings later and recover the dwelling that was abandoned to the State. Since here, huh? Very good. According to Uku Hänn, it is possible to submit an application, there is no legislative regulation on surrender after a certain period of time. Now, Tarmo was investigating, and Jaak Aab explained. Kaido Rosin then asked whether the Chancellor of Justice had been consulted and received feedback on the solutions offered to churches in the draft. Jaak Aab replied that he did. Then Sven Sester studied the progress of the property reform, and Michal, Kristen, did. So that's the end part.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U326	Now, the questions for you, waitress, are over. Thank you. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Jürgen Ligi, representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U327	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the young minister was a little bit hurt here when they said he was somehow spinning or thinking we were stupid. It's gonna be hard for him. But the hard part is actually just ahead, because he has still entered a rather dirty policy-making process, and this bill is one of its forms of expression. There is no other principle in this bill than that we have power and power to grab and share. After all, these attempts have been made before, the property reform reserve is a convenient place for this, the Riigikogu can essentially be missed and the use of money can be simply labeled, which should otherwise be justified. I have to agree with Mr Leng here, unfortunately, that indeed, the principle of ownership reform reserve is in no way compatible with the use of money, in this sense it is another attempt at theft. One attempt was set back by the Chancellor of Justice, who said that it should not be done. But the Riigikogu can do anything, it can also steal, it can let principles slide and change them. And if there really are voices here for that, including Heimar Leng's voice and IRL's, it's gonna happen, but we still hope that this isn't going to happen. The Minister said many things a more experienced politician might not say, but he has done his job. One sentence was that it was a value decision. This is indeed a value decision. It's a decision to grab and share, not to think about principles, not to think about precedents, not to think about side effects. In this case, the most capital side effect, of course, is what the Chancellor of Justice, when he spoke of giving money to the church, gave a gentle signal. I would have hoped he'd say a little harder. This is not just about coordinating with the Riigikogu, it is about a larger principle. This is that Estonia's succession must not be called into question. Estonia has not occupied itself and must not take a decision that it will compensate itself for the occupation damage it has caused itself. He hasn't caused them. But he can give money to the church. The Minister said several times that this was some sort of problem, and now there is finally a solution. This solution was already in place. The Archbishop assured me that this agreement was ripe for signature during the previous government. I don't know the exact details why they didn't get it signed before November 2016, but I remember we were arguing a little bit that maybe we should return it. The second thing was that we may have been arguing about the sums, and that is not what the whole government is doing. However, the principle that money must be given to the church has been accepted for several years, including a written record from 2013, when I was the Minister of Finance. My words, which have been quoted here by the opponents with caution, were that the church could receive targeted support, but not be bound in any way to occupational damage. The new government entered this bucket, of course, with great pleasure, and it is happy to compensate for the damage to the occupation, because it does not understand exactly what Estonia's legal succession is and what the legal continuity of Estonia is. One precedent is, yes, if there are two churches, then what happens to the rest of them when we say we're going to give the money. A friend of Igor was not correct here; it is not so much about the church's extraordinaryness, but about the fact that there are also different churches. But the bigger problem is that we can't compensate for our own fate. There's a lot of money in there. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U328	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U329	That's why I could've come up with this thing straight. The main problem here is in the recital, even a smaller problem is where the money is taken from, but they should still have meant a fair justification during the state budget procedure and a fair signing of the contract, but not a touch of sideways. It's even worse with these apartments. The state has never committed itself. Grabbing these apartments into their own hands started at Kohtla-Järve. One Korb said that he would solve this problem, and the other Korb became a minister, and one of the first and almost the only things he signed was the paper that these Kohtla-Järve apartments, which I know are 33, will take on the country. Now the circle has come back to do it under the letter of ownership reform. That's really impudent. The purpose of the money received from the privatisation of the Reserve Fund for Ownership Reform is fully and exhaustively described in the Act. If a purpose is lost because the money is scarce, then surely the lack of money cannot be the reason why these purposes should be added to it. The law could have been regulated, but it is this black policy that we are going to talk about something extraordinarily saying that we are going to regulate the law here. No, we don't regulate the law, we share the money here. There is a great hope that perhaps the IRL, the whispers and one part of the Central Party will not go along with such hustling. Of course, I don't think that the price here is that we're gonna hustle somewhere else, so we're gonna be okay, for example, hustling somebody who's somehow called forced tenants. It's also an impudent myth, such people don't really exist. Being one of the victims of ownership reform myself, I at least understand it emotionally, it simply must not be the kind of thing that we pay for emotional possessions that have never been. To conclude, we already share the proposal not to stop reading the first reading that arose here among our opposition partners once. It is a pity that this decision has not already been taken by the Commission, but we have the opportunity to correct this mistake and to stop the questioning or rightly disturbing of state theft and succession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U330	Thank you. On behalf of the Free Party Group, Jüri Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U331	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to talk about topics that can be divided into two groups: firstly, the general methodological issues of law and government, which relate to this draft, and secondly, the specific cases of the churches in question and the question of the monastery of Petseri. The general methodology is that two types of public authorities are being set up in the country: one is being created without a deadline and "eternity" and the other is being created for some specific work to be done or for a certain deadline. This is similar to the division of contracts in contract law into fixed-term and permanent contracts. When the independence of the Republic of Estonia was restored, a large number of state institutions were called upon to carry out this restoration in practice and to carry out reforms. At that time, no one could think that this work would ever be completed and that these facilities would no longer be needed. But in essence, they were temporary public authorities created to carry out a specific task. This reserve fund is also one of those. We have now reached a situation in Estonia where we need to provide a general answer on how we will proceed. Most of these basically temporary agencies have done most of their work; these tasks are no longer necessary. One or two of them have been liquidated or self-liquidated, but at some point when insufficient work capacity is no longer foreseen, a fundamental decision is needed. In my opinion, it is unthinkable to imagine that this fund should tick slowly until 2060, as the explanatory memorandum to the draft states. One of the next governments could look through all these problems and bring things together. If there are institutions with a positive end balance, i.e. more money has come in than has gone out, and there is no longer an application for over-exploited money, then this money should be withdrawn from these funds. There are many ways to decide exactly what to do with it. This is the right methodology for how the Government of the Republic should have resolved this issue. Only after these first two steps had been taken could we have asked what to do with the rest of the money. Now from churches and the ownership of Petseri monastery. First of all, the general comment that traditional churches in Estonia have basically different ownership rights than all other owners. We do have a general principle that everything can only have one owner. This means that it may have several owners at the same time, but it is not conceivable that one legal entity is inside the other and both are owners. But in the case of churches, it's been trouble all along, and that's not exactly how it is about churches. Church ownership is divided between the church as a large organization and a particular congregation. Both are regarded as owners and have traditional relations with each other. The congregation cannot decide that it will sell the church building without permission from the church as an organization. Similarly, for example, the church's central body cannot decide that we do not need this building; we sell it without the permission of the congregation. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U332	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U333	After the restoration of the Republic of Estonia, a popular and very effective campaign to repair and restore churches began. This campaign is almost over. The last major issue known relates to the Church of Narva Alexander, which is still confusing. And this white sheep or screaming mishap is the building of the church of Tartu. For various reasons, this building, which burned down in 1941, became an EPA sports building during the Soviet era. Today, when all the other buildings in the Estonian congregations of Tartu are top-top and even more repaired, it is in a terrible situation. Go see, and if you don't look away, you'll feel that World War II has not ended. This is now one thing that should be dealt with separately on the issue of restoration. There are several topics here: the national cultural issue, the history of the song festival, etc. But there was probably one of the first three congregations of Estonians historically. We don't really know that. It is possible that there was the first congregation of Christians in Estonia that was once. The historic building was blown up by the Russians in 1708 by order of Peter I, and later the ruins were demolished. The congregation was able to build a new building in the 1840's. In later times, the congregation, which still exists, was mainly active in the temple building of Peter. The church restoration program needs to be completed. Petseri's thing is a little more complicated. According to my information, Petseri's monastery refused the opportunity offered at the time, I don't know what form and for what reasons, although he should have been subject to property reform. How could the Estonian Apostolic Orthodox Church be transferred to their own right now, I seriously doubt that. I hope we can find out more about this. I have no objection to the support given by the state to the most important churches, and I even consider it essential. Finally, like the Reform Party Group, the Free Party Group has a proposal not to stop reading first.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U334	Thank you. On behalf of the Tarmo Kruusimäe IRL Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U335	Good vice chairman! Good replacements! On the subject of churches, the previous speaker said a lot already. I'd still be staying at these apartments for a while. I was on the local government council for eleven and a half years, and for some time I was on the administrative board, I think I was a member of the first administrative body in Lasnamäe. The city of Tallinn encountered exactly the same problems. These apartments came to the city of Tallinn from Kohtla-Järve and somewhere else, and money was written into our budget to buy these apartments because the owner of the apartment was a citizen of the city of Tallinn. So this was a transfer of ownership. Let us see how this situation has arisen. The city of Tallinn has attracted a great many people here with this so-called jointly funded public transport, which has led people who have come to work in Tallinn to register here, but they have remained owners of these other municipalities and have not fulfilled their obligations. This raises the question of where the local government has left these people undecided and not imposed on them. If you are the owner and you fail to fulfil your obligations, your property should be expropriated. The bailiff would have been one option, but it was not right that the city of Tallinn had to buy these apartments. The city of Tallinn did not manage to take all the apartments. Maybe the council went on to give it a little bit bigger than that. Now they're coming to the country. The city of Tallinn was a good example, as I speak of Kohtla-Järvel again about Kohtla-Järve, there was a lack of decision-making, which in my opinion means trading with influence. Non-deciding is also one of the characteristics of power trading. There's a signal somewhere that you don't have to perform your duties as owner and it's already been negotiated that the state obviously buys these apartments. This, however, seriously calls into question the rental house project. There are apartments that no one needs, especially the local government, but rental homes seem to be needed, but there is no such capacity. I also gave an example in the Commission and asked the Minister. The working mood in the Commission was extremely sad. Let's just say you don't hang around the house talking about rope, but the minister presenting the bill wasn't very talkative. That is why a number of questions remained in the air, which maybe was precisely the reason why the Commission decided in a consensual manner. A colleague here said, "Oh, oh, what have you got there?" I would like to remind you that the Reform Party and my good colleague, my neighbour, were all for consensus precisely because a new minister is coming to bring himself up to speed on these matters, and obviously the middle group may also have more information on these issues. The second question, which I found strange. Right now, they're coming into the balance sheet of the Ministry of Finance, but we have Riigi Kinnisvara AS who could marry all these apartments. If you ask me how it is possible to get married apartments that no one needs, then I will give you the example of Roosna-Allik, where the whole apartment was sold, for 1 euro per apartment. The first sale failed, but good lobbying was done, and the second one succeeded. How did Roosna-Alli have this problem? The houses were built, people lived there. I'll take three more minutes this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U336	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U337	At the time of the restoration of independence, the local people thought that the owner of the boiler house supplying the buildings with heat was obviously a millionaire and a bloodsucker, and in corpore Roosna-Alliku people did not pay the heat bills, so the boiler house put the pills in the bag and people moved out of the buildings. The people who remained there solved the situation the way it happened. There were no heat pumps, no one had a bursuika, no one had a Pioneer stove, no one made a boiler house in the stairwell. But the example of Roosna-Alliku shows that the situation is manageable. Therefore, the Minister should know that this is not the best solution for the state to have to buy them. This re-accommodation and re-manufacturing would still require that good real estate specialists who can evaluate real estate are sent there. For example, in Tallinn things took place so that when it was necessary to privatise a large dormitory, the apartment went at the price of the refrigerator and the interested people were found. Miracle, after a while, all these people had already sold the apartments they bought at the price of the fridge and real estate development was alive. So there is a solution. In my opinion, however, the question is why the state must start to tear down the ruins of industrial buildings with its own money. Doesn't the land pay anything anymore? After all, it is possible to sell the land with the buildings or the remains of the building. At present, it seems that someone is preparing for the sale of the plots and to make it more attractive and to help the new owner to some extent in a friend's behalf (or is the reason again for the trading of influence), the ruins will be demolished with public money, as the land will then be more attractive. Put this land on the market with the ruins! There was also the question of how many more of these things are left and when we can pull this so-called ownership reform together. Uku Hänni said that yes, there are about six more controversial things. So I say to a good colleague who said that it should last until 2060 that I do not think it will last that long. There'll be good negotiators, and we'll make a decision. There are people who say that people have been wronged in the course of property reform with regard to so-called forced tenants. I think that if we want to talk loudly about this, we also need to talk about the fact that we have no desovetisation and decolonisation in Estonia, and quite a lot of people have been able to privatise apartments for the EVPs, which should not belong to them under any law. So before we start making amends for injustice here, we should see what injustice we've done in the past. Let's not open this Pandora box! However, I think we can finish the first reading of the draft and send it back to the Commission. I think the minister's gonna be there, they're gonna work on it, and maybe we can get this bill down. I'm just talking about these apartments and the parcels. I agree with the church matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U338	Thank you, Tarmo Kruusimäe! On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U339	I need more time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U340	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U341	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker actually pointed out very nicely the complexity of this problem. All our history and every problem that comes before us is just as complicated. I say, at first, just in case, that I cannot be accused of grabbing, privatising, awakening or anything: I am not a believer, but I support the churches in remedying injustice, and every option that is brought on the table is important. We actually, in terms of content today, the Minister said this once, we are changing the functions of the law on the use of money from privatisation and its reserve fund. When it comes to justice and justice, which are important, must go hand in hand, and what has come under discussion here today in matters and speeches, it must be said that there has actually been no justice in everything and there has not been justice in everything. I dare say that it is considerably fairer that we make up for the damage done to the churches by violating their ownership than the money given to Estonian Air for privatisation from the same fund. So changing this function is absolutely important and correct. If you look at the wider legal system of Estonia, you can see that in our legal practice the most common form of the percentage is not exactly known, it is certainly more than 50% of the share is definitely a settlement procedure and an agreement. The two parties, or churches, and the state, have now agreed on a long-term dispute. I'm sure it's important to get on with this. We, or the Centre Party, feel that it is undoubtedly extremely important that we also have different opinions in this Chamber, that the issue of forced tenants should be resolved. That's what I'm thinking. I do not agree with Mr Ligi that this problem does not seem to exist. I am an interested person here in two ways: I have received compensation by returning it, but there are also people in my family who actually suffered at the time because of a fair step, but whether it was legal in everything is still a question of their own. We made amends for injustice and created injustice, in fact making amends for injustice against several Estonian people. I therefore think that the property reform with this side, i.e. with the forced tenants, also needs to go faster. There is one important thing here, I'm sure, to make a national register. I dare say, being a member of the Centre Party Group, that we could have dealt with this matter more quickly and that we need to deal more quickly so that it really does exist by the turn of the year. This allows us to get a clear picture. Several municipalities, led by Tallinn, have made up for this injustice to a large extent, regardless of the state's activities. This is certainly welcome and welcome. Of course, the proposals that have been made here on the increase of the funds of the Holy Houses programme are extremely important in order to clean up, renovate and repair sacral buildings and the cultural, artistic and heritage values they contain. With two hands and maybe more, I'll sign them. It's important. We can even compare nature reserves, where there are restrictions, and buildings under heritage protection, so we can say that money in terms of volume and needs is a protective side of heritage, including temples, certainly in relation to the orphan. Speaking of whether or not it is right to call the occupation in order to remedy this right of ownership and whether we are violating legal continuity with it, I am absolutely convinced that we are not breaking anything here. After regaining independence, the state of Estonia has repeatedly repaired the damage to occupation. The first thing I remember right now is the territory of military units. This has been corrected by local governments, there are several funds and there are still funds to come, because there are actually a number of places where real estate development is hindered even by such a thing. Take, for example, the city of Viljandi, where the residential district of Järveotsa will be developed and where there are still military buildings and there are also pollution. So actually, we've done it. This would now allow the Minister for Justice, who has appeared among us, to complete this process so that if we were to recover the damage to the occupation if we took it and were to be able to take it so far, it would have been compensated for this matter. But in the end, justice and justice must go hand in hand. I think that both the right to redress the injustice done to the churches and the inclusion of other functions in the functions of the Property Reform Reserve Fund, as well as the right to justice for those who suffered in the process of redressing one injustice, must be done. The Centre Party Group supports the completion of the first reading of the draft. Between the first and second readings, we all have the opportunity and, if necessary, the need to make proposals to complete and improve the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U342	Thank you, Helmut Hallemaa! Now, on behalf of the EKRE Group, Henn Põlluaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U343	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Yes, indeed there is a problem. There is the problem of both their empty apartments and the church's assets. No one's denying that in this hall. But at the same time it is a draft and those methods that, for some strange reason, have been chosen to solve this problem, an unprecedented legal failure, a completely pathetic and poor fault. Let's get started on these apartments. Kohtla-Järvet was mentioned here, but Kohtla-Järve was only founded in 1946, not during the Republic of Estonia, it was founded during the Soviet period. Therefore, these apartments and buildings have no legal link to ownership reform. They cannot be linked at all to this issue. However, Kohtla-Järve and many other places are indeed filled with ghostlois, empty houses, where only a few people live and where there is no heating. This problem needs to be solved, but it doesn't go so easy on us to do what the Minister said before I asked him about it. Most of these apartments are not in the hands of people who live here and who can be contacted to solve these problems, so that they give these apartments to the municipality and that, in turn, to the state. To a very large extent, the owners of these apartments are citizens of the Russian Federation, who actually live in the Russian Federation, and there is absolutely no contact with them either at national or municipal level. It has been sought for years and years, and this problem has been addressed for years and years. Last year, we also discussed in the Special Committee on State Budget Control the question of how to get these apartments, so that some houses could simply be demolished and people brought together in one house. This is not easy at all. We had several experts, representatives of ministries and lawyers involved in the debate. The paper they put on our desk doesn't solve this mess by an ounce. I'm gonna get back to church. Yes, it would indeed be very easy to solve this problem so that the church has requirements and we compensate for those concerning the Church of Niguliste and its property, and both sides would be pleased. But for some reason, this issue of reparation for occupation damage has been introduced here, which has nothing to do with it. It's like a pig and a cuckoo, they have nothing to do with each other. All the more so, the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church has made it quite clear that they are not seeking compensation for any occupation damage. It is deeply incomprehensible to them why the government is so persistently trying to introduce it into this draft and into this whole deal. It is also very incomprehensible how we can talk in the first place about compensating the property of the monastery of Petseri. Petseri County is occupied by Russia, Petseri Monastery is in the administration of the Orthodox Church under Moscow... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U344	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U345	...and we're gonna pay for it now! Estonia and the Riigikogu have condemned the crimes committed by the occupying authorities, but it now seeks to take over responsibility for these crimes and to compensate for crimes committed in Estonia by a foreign state. This is completely absurd! Do we really admit that the Soviet occupation has never been, as the minister kindly informed us here that the occupation ended in 1940? I really hope it was such a little childish linguae that it wasn't meant to be, but in fact, such a soul is glowing through this bill. Ownership doesn't go away by someone occupying a territory. Not all these requirements go out for nothing. They are perfectly legal; they exist; they are directed against Russia. We discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs a few years ago that if we conclude a border agreement and surrender occupied Estonia's territories to Russia free of charge, the claims for compensation for all their owners, which are now being made against Russia, Estonia, will return. That is at least EUR 100 million. First of all, do we really have the money? Secondly, how can such steps be taken at all? There are a lot of different proposals here on how to solve this problem, how and what to compensate for from the money. I'm not talking about Petseri, that's different. It is not owned by the Estonian Apostolic Church, it is owned by Moscow. There's no way you can make up for a cent. All these things we can only recover. So I am very impressed by how it is possible for the government to come to the Riigikogu with such a draft, such a legal cull, the worst, with proposals that deeply undermine our legal continuity and, therefore, our sovereignty. The government is also violating our constitution and its spirit. The Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U346	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of the draft, but three groups have proposed to reject it at first reading. We have to vote through this. We shall prepare the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to reject bill 614 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 36 members of the Riigikogu in favour of rejection, 41 against and 1 abstention. This means that the first reading of the draft has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 614, including 23 May at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U347	We will go to the next item on the agenda, namely agenda item 9. Ladies and gentlemen, there is such a buzz in the hall that I do not understand what is happening. I would ask those who wish to continue their debate to leave the room. We will go to the 9th item, which is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the 'Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, amending the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement' initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like you to speak to Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U348	Hello, everyone! Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Due to the extraordinary urgent business of the Minister of Foreign Affairs abroad, I have been asked to replace him today. But now for the substance of the bill. The Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of South Africa, which was signed on 11 October 1999, in Pretoria in the last century and entered into force on 1 May 2004, currently governs the relationship between the European Union and the Republic of South Africa. Estonia signed this amending agreement on 2 July 2009, and by now we are one of the last Member States of the European Union that has not ratified the amending agreement. Following the entry into force of the Agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the European Union and the Republic of South Africa and the completion of the liberalisation programme foreseen therein in 2012, trade and mutual investment between the European Union and South Africa has increased significantly. The European Union is the main trading and investment partner of the Republic of South Africa; trade with the European Union accounted for almost one third of the total trade volume of South Africa. The Republic of South Africa, in turn, is the European Union's largest trading partner in Africa. Mainly fuel, mineral resources, machinery and means of transport are exported from South Africa. The main export products of the European Union are machinery, means of transport and chemicals. According to Estonian export statistics, Estonian trade with South Africa is very modest, accounting for only 0.06% of total exports in 2016. In 2015 and 2016 goods were exported from Estonia to South Africa for 6 million euros. The main export articles were fibreboards, mineral oils, paper, cardboard and peat. Since the amending agreement does not create direct obligations for Estonia in any of the areas of cooperation, but rather promotes cooperation, it is difficult to assess the exact costs and benefits of implementing the amending agreement. The changes made to the amending agreement also have no significant direct impact on Estonia. At the same time, there is still a certain impact on national security and external relations. The updating of several articles creates a good prerequisite for closer cooperation between Estonia and the Republic of South Africa. For example, new areas of cooperation such as the fight against terrorism, the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, cooperation on migration and information exchange will be added. Information and communication technology provisions have also been updated, which could be one of the most promising areas of cooperation. The ratification of the amending Agreement will also contribute, at least indirectly, to the continuation of negotiations for a reciprocal visa-free regime. South Africa is one of the leading countries in sub-Saharan Africa and a strategic partner of the European Union, both politically and economically. The Amending Agreement facilitates the full cooperation between Estonia and South Africa in the future. I hope that you will support the ratification of the amending agreement. But until then, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U349	Thank you. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U350	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Is the European Union not in a two-faced situation where the Republic of South Africa is experiencing very extensive human rights violations? This is an agreement that has already been concluded, and now we are entering into a trade agreement. However, there are countries against which we have trade embargoes and trade restrictions. But now we praise that we are doing very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U351	Thank you. I thought I was talking a little different. The European Union is the main trading and investment partner of the Republic of South Africa and vice versa. I think that the Republic of South Africa has become a completely different country since the apartheid era. It is therefore an important partner of the European Union, for example, in its policy on the management of migration flows and cooperation with African countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U352	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Trade between the Republic of South Africa and the European Union and, in fact, many other contacts, including tourism and interpersonal contacts, are affected, I dare say, by two very important factors. One is a very high level of corruption in South Africa, which has not changed significantly since the presidential change, at least so far. But the second is a discriminatory visa policy for South Africa, at least for some of the Member States of the European Union. It can be said that it is much easier for a South African citizen to travel to Estonia than for an Estonian citizen to the Republic of South Africa. I don't know how much you know about this as a substitute minister. Should not the visa issue be raised and addressed during these negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U354	Thank you. Yeah, I'm aware of that. There are currently seven countries in Europe, including our closest neighbours Latvia and Lithuania, but also the newest countries in the European Union, such as Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia, which do not have a visa-free regime with the Republic of South Africa. I think that the conclusion of this agreement could contribute to achieving this same visa waiver. Unfortunately, this is a relatively similar situation, as is the case with the United States, which also has no visa waiver with all the countries of the European Union. The Republic of South Africa has said that it wants to move forward on the basis of reciprocity; it wants a visa waiver from the European Union as a Community. Not all countries of the European Union have recognised that South Africa is ready for visa liberalisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U355	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U356	Thank you. You are absolutely right, indeed, South Africa has changed since the days of the former apartheid. Then there was repression and discrimination against Negroes; now the situation is the opposite and far worse, because not only is the white population being discriminated against, but they are literally being beaten, bullied, deprived of their property and massacred. The situation is completely insane, but we're closing our eyes. Even the Prime Minister of Australia proposed that all white people should flee from South Africa to Australia, and they would be happy to take them into their own protection. Can racism really only be one-sided, and are we really prepared to enter into these beautiful agreements with such a country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U357	Thank you. By all means, I agree with you that any racism, regardless of the colour of the skin, must be completely excluded and must be dealt with, it must be condemned, it must be combated. But one of the points in this agreement is, by the way, cooperation on the International Criminal Court. Very many countries have been pressured to the extent necessary by such agreements, because if, as has been said, legal attention is not helped, economic sanctions often help. There are also clauses in each agreement that say that if one party does not act as agreed, these sanctions will be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U358	Good Minister of the Interior, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Ms Anne Sulling, member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U359	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Foreign Affairs prepared the first reading of the draft 606 at its meeting on 3 May. Margus Rava, Director of the Office of Trade Policy and Economic Organisations of the Foreign Economic and Development Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, presented the content and objectives of the draft. Margus Rava explained, as the Minister just mentioned, that ratification of the draft will give Estonia an additional argument for visa liberalisation with the Republic of South Africa. In particular, he had in mind that the migration clauses of the agreement lay down a readmission obligation for illegally staying citizens, which is one of the prerequisites for visa liberalisation. The aim of the amendment of the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of South Africa is to update, inter alia, the wording of the provisions on cultural, information society, economic development and scientific cooperation and to include provisions on cooperation in the field of migration, combating terrorism, combating money laundering, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and combating organised crime. The African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of the Council of the European Union has called on Member States that have not yet ratified the amending agreement to do so as soon as possible. As of today, the Treaty has been ratified by all EU Member States except Estonia, Cyprus, Germany, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg and Poland. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to appoint a speaker here as rapporteur and to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 9 May, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and to propose that the deadline for submitting the draft amendments to 606 be set at 4 p.m. on 11 May 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U360	Thank you. Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U361	Thank you. My question is perhaps mixed with a comment. However, one of the main problems here is not even so much the lack of visa liberalisation, as the bilateral visa waiver between the European Union and the Republic of South Africa will probably not come anytime soon. The question is that a citizen of South Africa can apply for a Schengen visa from Pretoria and then travel to the Baltic States, an Estonian citizen must apply for a visa to South Africa from Helsinki, a Latvian citizen from Stockholm and a Lithuanian citizen from Copenhagen. This is a completely disproportionate situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U362	Was it meant to be a commentary? [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah. Ratification of this change is a prerequisite for moving forward towards a visa-free regime that would resolve this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U363	Good waitress... Uh-huh! Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U364	Thank you. What's the purpose now? Is it aimed at achieving visa liberalisation or is it aimed at creating economic relations? What are these economic relations now, and what could be the potential of economic relations?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U365	As the Minister has just mentioned, Estonia has very little economic relations with the Republic of South Africa, but this agreement provides a framework for forms of cooperation in very different areas, also elsewhere than in the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U366	No further questions. Thank you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. The representatives of the political groups do not wish to negotiate. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 606. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 606 amendments at 4 p.m. on 11 May. The item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U367	We are going to the first reading of the 10th item, Bill 616 of the Personal Data Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U368	Reverend Vice-President Kalle Laanet of the Riigikogu! Highly respected members of the High Chamber, the Estonian National Council! On behalf of the Government of the Republic, I have the privilege of presenting a new draft law on the protection of personal data. The context is that in spring 2016, the European Parliament approved new data protection rules that give people control of their personal data and create a uniform level of data protection throughout the European Union. The directly applicable regulation will enter into force on 25 May 2018, which means that together with the new Personal Data Protection Act it will replace the current Estonian Personal Data Protection Act. I would like to stress that the right to the protection of personal data is not innovative from the point of view of Estonian law, because similar rules have been in force since 2008 when the European Personal Data Protection Directive was transposed into the Data Protection Act. The legal bases for the processing of personal data are now expanding compared to the existing legal regime. First of all, the effect on the human being. The General Data Protection Regulation strengthens existing rights and guarantees new rights and gives people stronger control of their personal data. For example, it will be easier to access your data, including further information on how the data is processed, and it will be ensured that the relevant information is provided in a clear and comprehensible manner. Secondly, a new right to transfer data, which means easy transfer of personal data between service providers. Thirdly, a clearer right to erasure, i.e. the right to be forgotten. This means that if a person no longer wishes to have his or her data processed and if there is no legal basis for storing the data, the data will be deleted. For example, a person may request Google, a telephone operator or a mail order portal to delete his or her specific personal data if there is no legal basis for processing such data. Fourthly, the right to know about the attack on your personal data. This means that businesses and organisations must immediately inform people about serious data breaches and also make the notification to the relevant data protection supervisory authority. The starting point for a new legal environment for the protection of personal data is that it is a prerequisite for the implementation of the digital market in Europe. It is a cornerstone so that we can move forward with pan-European rules that empower the digital market. Secondly, it certainly facilitates the activities of Estonian entrepreneurs who sell goods or services in other Member States and also process personal data. This means that due to the nuanced nuances of the new rules on the protection of personal data that existed in Estonia, Estonian companies had to be informed about the requirements of the Member States of the European Union and comply with them in the country of residence when processing personal data, but now that the directly applicable regulation comes into force, the platform guaranteed by this regulation must be guided and this action is consistent. According to the European Commission's impact assessment, uniform pan-European rules are estimated to save €2.3 billion a year. What is important is that companies must only communicate with one supervisory authority in the EU Member State where they have their principal seat. Businesses outside the European Union apply the same EU rules when offering goods or services on the European Union market or following people's behaviour in the European Union. It is important that rules in favour of innovation ensure that data protection measures are integrated into products and services from the very beginning of planning. Technical practices that respect privacy will also be introduced. For example, pseudonymisation, i.e. data fields allowing identification of a person, will be replaced by one or more fictitious identifiers, or encryption, which means that the data will be encoded in such a way that only authorised parties can read them. The new data protection rules will eliminate most of the information obligations and costs. In cases where the processing of data poses a high risk to the rights and freedoms of the person, companies must carry out an impact assessment, but small and medium-sized enterprises are not required to collect data on the processing, unless the data are processed regularly or could jeopardise the rights and freedoms of the persons whose data are processed. In the European Union, the new Personal Data Protection Act regulates issues relating to the protection of personal data that specify the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, such as the lawfulness of the processing of personal data, the processing of different types of personal data and the conditions applicable to the consent of the child in relation to information society services, as well as matters relating to supervision and liability, and as a second block of questions left to the Member States to regulate, such as the processing of personal data for journalistic purposes, artistic and literary self-expression, for research and national statistics, for archiving purposes in the public interest, after the death of the data subject, in the credit area and in the public domain, and for the protection of persons and property, as well as the processing of personal data in the field of law enforcement. The starting point in the Personal Data Protection Act, which deals with these issues on the basis of the regulation, was that the narrowest possible contour was to make changes to the Estonian legal order and as little as possible to the extent that the European General Data Protection Regulation allows it to create an additional administrative burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U369	Minister of Justice, you have at least one... now two questions. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U370	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'm looking at the date of entry into force. It's a bit of a mess. The directive should have been adopted by 6 May; the law itself should have entered into force on 25 May. Can you tell us which countries of the European Union have been able to adopt this directive in time and why our procedure is so late?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U371	According to my latest data, four Member States of the European Union have moved at such a rate that they have completed this timetable. In one country that has done so, Germany, there has already been a debate as to whether this could lead to a monitoring procedure, as national implementing powers may not be in line with the logic of this regulation. I am far from retreating from the point of view that, of course, European Union law must be applied with sufficient preparation time. The fact is that this regulation is also a matter of very many rules on how it will be furnished. The independent supervisory authorities of the European Union will develop the implementing rules for its application. This work has certainly been quite extensive in the setting up of this new framework regulation on personal data. There is no doubt that we have considered it necessary to have a strong consultation with the stakeholders so that this impact, as I said, will proceed in the light of our general arrangements so far, along the minimum necessary outline. It is important to stress that, as far as this is concerned, the law in force is in force. What is important is that our current Personal Data Protection Act is not in itself contrary to the European Union Data Protection Regulation. After 25 May, a European regulation directly applicable will enter into force, and the existing Personal Data Protection Act will have to be applied on issues where it does not guarantee the protection of personal data or privacy rights to this extent by naturally applying it on the basis of the regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U372	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U373	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the processing of personal data for journalistic purposes. It has been said here that freedom of expression, which is known to be supreme in a democratic society, gives the press full freedom, which is understandable. But this is a matter of serious journalism and entertaining journalism. Today, alongside newspapers, television and radio, there are many forms of social media, blogs, online forums, social networks. How do you see freedom of the press and data protection in this context, especially when it is said that entertainment is out of here? Is there much debate to be expected, or what is to come?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U374	A very serious and legitimate question. We compare the current Personal Data Protection Act with the draft law that has been brought before Parliament for the first reading. § 4 of the draft "Processing of personal data for journalistic purposes' states that personal data may be processed for journalistic purposes without the consent of the data subject, in particular in the media, if it is of public interest. The second element here: is in line with the principles of journalistic ethics and does not unduly undermine the rights of the data subject. In the current law, the term 'overly public interest' is included here. 'Suspective public interest' is undoubtedly more difficult in character than simply 'public interest'. It was a serious place to weigh. I considered it necessary to meet the representatives of the newspaper association and of a number of organisations. The general logic of this regulation is that the Member States themselves are "frames" for processing for journalistic purposes. In view of the legitimate role that the press plays in the functioning of society, we considered it important to remove the word 'overweight'. But there is no doubt that a person has the right to privacy and the right to expect it. The use of human data in the press must be justified by something important to ensure that interference in private life is proportionate. As a rule, there is no contractual relationship, no legitimate interest or legal obligation with the data subject when processing personal data for journalistic purposes. The introduction of an exception to journalistic processing precludes the obligation to ask for consent. This will undoubtedly give the press an advantage over traditional data processing. The important question is how to distinguish between entertainment and the media's informative, social enlightenment or the role of society, let us say, supervision. At what point will this platform be created, which can be called a journalistic activity? This is certainly due to the objective of the rule that has been set and will be realised or implemented by an independent supervisory authority. There is one central supervisory authority in Estonia, the Data Protection Inspectorate of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U375	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U376	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I'm interested in the applied side. That's quite a load here at the Data Protection Inspectorate, as I read out of here. At the same time, conditional speech has been very much used in making changes or improvements. I get the impression that there is no information on which resources this bill could be implemented when it becomes a law, à la IT costs, etc. You are one of the key ministers of zero bureaucracy. If you analyse it as a whole, does it seem to you that this bill serves the purpose of zero bureaucracy? Does this meet the objective of reducing public expenditure set out in the RES? How do you approach it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U377	Thank you. This is a very important question. This is because he gives me the opportunity to take down certain stress arising from an opinion, such as the entry into force of the regulation would lead to fundamental and extensive changes in our current circumstances. No, he's not bringing them. For us, the virtue has been that with regard to the philosophy of personal data protection, which applies and has been in force in Estonia today, we made wise choices in 2008 and, to a large extent, the new General Data Protection Regulation (General Data Protection Regulation) also follows this principle and outline. With regard to this so-called bureaucracy or the scope of additional resources, we do not plan any substantial additional resource in the light of the budget of the Data Protection Inspectorate separately. The starting point for the implementation of this draft or its general regulation has been that, when, above all, mass data administrators and institutions, as well as national institutions, have to make changes to their own registry economy, they have to find, through their own internal resources, those possibilities for applying this Regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U378	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The Association of Municipalities and the Association of Cities have failed to coordinate the draft law. This is particularly because and on the grounds that, without taking into account the impact on local governments and also their resource needs. The only way they've been answered here is by updating the explanatory statement. How do you explain it or explain it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U379	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U380	Once again, there's a legitimate problem. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum has been improved from the point of view of the problems affecting the effects, inter alia, in the wider public sector, local authorities and their institutions. The explanatory memorandum is 74 pages and contains these problems or the initiator of the draft, or government, has tried to answer these questions. But the fact is, I stress, that this choice made by the European Parliament by adopting a regulation on the protection of personal data is a direct right for us, as a Member State of the European Union, in our legal environment. Indeed, there were also a lot of comments in the letters of co-ordination to see if there was any way to change the new Personal Data Protection Act in one direction or another. But in fact our new legal environment for processing personal data is essentially still this regulation, its text. The text of this regulation is as agreed by the Member States in the Council and voted by the MEPs. This legal framework is the basis for us. Clearly, there is a lot of controversy about this law when we look at the procedure of this regulation. The first such point is definitely finding a balance between the right to privacy and the interest of companies in collecting data, doing business and acting. There are many vocal stakeholders, there were also those in Europe who feel that this may not sufficiently guarantee the right to privacy. Another serious choice that I would like to highlight in this regulation is that, by looking at the different Member States' perhaps different sensitivity to the protection of the right to privacy arising from 'personal data' and some of the very strong sensitivity of European political forces in relation to the protection of personal data, this regulation must be seen as a prerequisite for doing so, so that we can open up a digital single market, so that when merchants start to run business more intensively across borders, people's rights will not be abused in other Member States. Certainly the third fact is that the main issue, problem or interest, I believe, in the pan-European debate, is aimed at those electronic media platforms that have a global meaning. The scandals have been around Facebook and their platforms. Given the extent of this information and the additional information that people receive about behavioral habits or attitudes from these platforms, this is the main debate here, and I think that if we talk about the protection of personal data, which also increases the people of Estonia, the lion's part will have its centre of gravity on these platforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U381	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The fact that the costs of the Data Protection Inspectorate do not increase due to the implementation of this law is one side of the case, but on page 62 of the explanatory memorandum, the burden on municipalities is written in black and white. For the municipality, this amount is EUR 30000 to EUR 35000 per year. Given the large number of municipalities, this is still quite a considerable amount. In general, this is a problem and it has been reflected back to me in a number of meetings. How much administrative burden do we still have to take into account, also in the case of municipalities, and is there any solution intended, for example, to create a combined position in order for a data protection worker to have any other functions, or is it such a burden that each municipality has to employ individual employees?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U383	The first phase of implementation of this reform was undoubtedly an administrative reform. In fact, these officials are needed three times less, generally mechanically speaking. The second question is, in itself, whether these tasks can be performed by one person in several municipalities. Neither the regulation nor the Estonian law provides any specific restrictions here. I believe that municipalities will certainly find a healthy and practical way to realise the current legal environment. Thirdly, this is the correct order of magnitude, which we have also written down, by supplementing the explanatory memorandum, about possible additional administrative costs for the municipality. What's the administrative cost for? This is necessary to ensure that the rights of people living in municipalities are better protected. In view of the decisions that have entered into force this year and will enter into force next year, both the proportion of personal income tax received by local authorities and the financial resources to be redistributed through the Equalisation Fund, I believe that these orders of magnitude are largely not comparable. Local authorities with a stronger revenue base are more able to stand up for people's rights, including privacy rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U384	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I welcome the work done on revising and adapting this law. It takes many of the tensions that were previously experienced by historical researchers, including family history researchers, because at some point the historians had to break the law, with the silent consent of the Chancellor of Justice, who said that no one had complained. However, I am intrigued and amused by a point concerning the right of the heir to regulate the use of personal data. In order to examine someone's personal data, you must have the consent of the heir. I am in an intriguing situation, because one very remarkable Estonian character has passed on to me an archivic lube in a silver frame. Am I an heir and can I share the right to use the personal data of this outstanding character to everyone else? I'm the official heir to this glass, he marked it in his testamentary arrangement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U386	Thank you. The issue is that in the case of the processing of personal data of deceased persons, there is a choice that has actually been left to the Member States to regulate. The law in force provides 30 years after the death of a person for the obligation of consent, which is understandablely realized by the heir or, rather, by one of the heirs, not all heirs require consent. Because of the intense interest of the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have raised this limit to 60 years in the case of minors who have died, given the human tragedy that really should not occur in life that parents live longer than a child. The assumption for this 60-year logic was that parents would no longer be alive and could not be affected by the trauma that could be reborn. So if you are the heir of a particular person who regrettably has left this world, within 30 years of processing his personal data, you will be asked for personal data relating to him, not his research or any archive materials, your consent, you will be granted this privilege.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U387	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U388	I have a more theoretical question. At the beginning of the 21st century, the saying that the data is new gold is said to be rich. How does this draft affect the view that someone can also become rich when processing data? I do not mean perhaps as much about Estonia as about data protection in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U389	This in itself sets out more clear rules across Europe, too, so that the data that has been collected can be traded. Once clear boundaries have been established, there are clear frameworks for further business activities, customer profiles or buying offers. However, in the past, there has actually been a high probability that, even though I have been the subject of this data and my 'data' has been done in business, my business as a human being has been done, I have not really had the opportunity to interfere with it. Now, in all its activities concerning the processing of data as a business, it is the privilege of individuals to be forgotten and to withdraw from this business scheme, even by law and regulation. In general, I believe that the more technological capacity to store data develops and the more data accumulates, the greater, both psychologically and for practical reasons, the person's desire not to be primarily in the spotlight for commercial or marketing reasons becomes greater. I think the right to privacy is becoming an ever greater and greater deficit in the modern world.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U390	Dear Minister of Justice, the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U391	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the possible future fate of this draft on Monday, 30 April. In addition to the Minister present here, Mr Kai Härmand, Deputy Chancellor of Legal Policy of the Ministry of Justice, and Sandra Mikli, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the same Ministry, were explaining to us. Perhaps it is not appropriate to always mention the names of the people who go to the Commission in their presentations, but this time it must be said that they were useful, they were of great help in providing explanations. The Minister was thorough enough in his presentation, and I do not think there is any reason to introduce this draft here any longer. The questions you have asked here were, in fact, analogous to those presented in the Commission. As members of the Riigikogu, we have to take into account that there will be an implementation bill from the government, during which more than 100 laws will be amended, and the adoption of this implementing law will be in our autumn session. We've come to the following decisions. We decided to discuss this draft in plenary on 9 May 2018, we were unanimous on this. The Commission also agreed that the first reading of the draft should be completed. We propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 23 May, and we also had a consensus on that, as well as that I would make this report on behalf of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U392	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Marko Pomerants! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 616 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 23 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U393	Draft Act amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 617. Initiator waitress, Home Secretary Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U394	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President of the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Aliens Act on the amendment of immigration regulation. The aim of the draft is to change the immigration limit in accordance with the principle that the changes would facilitate the settlement of foreigners who create added value for the Estonian economy and who have the prerequisites for integrating into society. On the one hand, we want to avoid the current regulation of the limit becoming an obstacle to the introduction of labour from outside the European Union in a situation where the business environment has expressed the need to include additional external labour. On the other hand, it is extremely important that we protect the Estonian labour market and engage in further training and retraining of domestic labour to facilitate the transition of workers to activities with higher value added or labour needs and to reduce unemployment among the local working population. But now, more specifically, the changes proposed by the bill. There's basically three of them. Firstly, foreigners who are granted a fixed-term residence permit to work as top specialists under the Aliens Act are excluded from the immigration limit. According to the Aliens Act, a top specialist is an alien with professional qualifications in any field, to whom an employer registered in Estonia undertakes to pay a fee for his professional work equal to or greater than the average gross monthly wage and coefficient 2 multiplied by the Estonian average annual gross monthly wage published by Statistics Estonia. Perhaps briefly: it is an employee who is paid double the average salary in Estonia. With the exception of top specialists from the immigration limit, this allows to bring the top of the field to specializations where Estonia itself may lack the necessary skills and knowledge. If the employer is willing to pay the foreign worker double the average wage in Estonia, it is already clear that he has invested in the employee and is convinced of his qualifications and wants a longer-term employment relationship with a valuable employee. Presumably, a person who is welcome and supported in the Estonian labour market is also interested in adapting to society. Another important change is that the time allowed for short-term work in Estonia will be extended up to one year. According to the current law, short-term work without a residence permit is allowed for up to 270 days in 365 days. The amendment extending the authorised period of short-term employment to a maximum of one year allows for the use of outside workers with temporary stays in areas that are sensitive to the cyclical nature of economic development and reduces the need to apply for a temporary residence permit for projects of up to one year. However, a worker may not permanently apply for a permit for short-term work without a residence permit. For one year and three months or 455 consecutive days, 365 days may be employed for a short period of time. This is how we ensure that an alien is obliged to leave the country in the meantime and that working here is based on the goals of short-term employment. The third and final amendment is this: we state in the law that workers who have come to work in Estonia for a long time must also acquire the knowledge of the Estonian language at level A2. A foreigner is required to speak Estonian at least at level A2 if he or she wishes to extend his or her temporary residence permit to work or apply for a new temporary residence permit if he or she has previously resided in Estonia on the basis of a temporary residence permit granted for working in Estonia for at least five years. The purpose of the requirement is to ensure the position of the Estonian language and the change is necessary to create the prerequisites for integrating an alien into Estonian society. Proficiency in the Estonian language is one of the most important prerequisites for people to integrate into society and understand what is happening in it. Finally, the cost of the draft and the expected revenue. In order to implement the amendments resulting from the draft, certain IT developments are needed, the costs of which are covered by the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. As the number of temporary staff is expected to increase, additional budgetary resources of EUR 84000 from the state budget for 2018 and EUR 122000 from 2019 are needed to cover additional staff costs. The introduction of a language level requirement for a foreigner entails additional costs for the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research. The estimated cost of conducting the language examination is 120 euros per examiner, but the first costs will only be incurred in three years' time when the first people have come to live here for five years. Based on the assumption that, for example, 2500 workers registered for short-term employment who work for a year and are paid an average gross monthly wage, it can be estimated that the state receives about EUR 12 million of tax revenue per year through the social tax paid by the employer. In addition, local consumption must be taken into account: food, services, housing. If, due to the change, 124 top specialists with a fixed-term residence permit are added annually, who are paid double the average gross monthly wage in Estonia, this will generate an additional tax revenue of approximately 3 million euros per year. The draft is planned to enter into force from 1 July 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U395	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? It is. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U396	Thank you. I read in the explanatory memorandum that immigration affects not only the Estonian culture and the position of the Estonian language, but also the integration aspect must also be taken into account when changing immigration regulation. However, when reading this bill, it turns out that a language level A2 is required for a five-year residence permit, which in fact means that a person can express his needs using simple phrases. Step B1, for example, the next step, means that he understands everything important on a subject he knows, such as work, leisure, etc. Then there are a number of people who do not need any language skills at all, and there is no need for this in the case of extension of a temporary residence permit. Don't you think it's extremely two-faced? You speak one way or the other, as if you care for the Estonian language space, but the other way around, you throw it in the trash.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U397	Thank you. Very juicy expressions! I dare say that language proficiency at level A2 is the minimum that we require of a foreigner so that he can extend his residence permit so that he understands what is happening in Estonian society and can express himself. You're absolutely right! We have also discussed this at ministerial level, and we have come to the understanding that the A2 level is sufficient for an alien who does not work in the sector where another level is needed. If, for example, he works in the service sector or elsewhere in such a place, other rules will automatically apply. For God's sake, if he works in medicine, for example, or in a sector like this, he just has to comply with another set of rules. However, when it comes to a person who works in construction or in mechanical engineering, we think that the A2 level as a minimum requirement is quite sufficient and that we can also make a person interested in Estonian language and culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U398	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U399	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You speak so convincingly here that we have a lack of top specialists. There should also be some sort of statistics in terms of numbers, how much and in what areas we lack these top specialists. I think it would be much better to make a bill to bring back our top specialists who have left here, but not to bring in any strange company who doesn't even speak the right Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U400	Thank you. God save Estonia for a law that will bring people into Estonia from somewhere! Whether they're foreigners or our own Estonians, I think they're gonna run far away from our ambassadors when they know they're gonna be brought back. However, as I said at lunch in Question Time, according to Statistics Estonia, for the first time in 2017 the return of Estonian citizens went to the positive side of Estonian history. So the Estonian person comes back. The reason for the return is definitely that wages have improved in Estonia, the social system has become more secure and the Estonian person feels more secure here than he did 10 to 15 years ago. A relatively conservative immigration policy will certainly play a role in this, especially with regard to our labour policy for foreigners. We make a very clear distinction between people who create high added value and temporary workers and do not allow the immigration limit to be freed, although, in fact, employers are under quite high pressure as well. When we're talking about top specialists, the numbers are all really there, but in most of them there are top specialists in the professions involved in the management and organization of production and engineering. There are certain areas where we lack our people. It's not like they're gonna bring these top specialists here by force. Typically, such top specialists in Europe go hunting, they are sought out, there is competition. How many top specialists could come here? We ourselves believe that this number could be 124, so many top specialists could come to Estonia to create added value. Once again, I stress that there is no plan to bring anyone here under compulsion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U401	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, My question comes about the coordination table, which is set out as an annex to the draft. Here is the Chamber of Commerce's proposals to reduce the immigration limit. These are, as the comments say, noted. But here's an interesting comment. The Government of the Republic has decided to continue the work of the broad-based working group set up in 2017 to develop amendments to the immigration regulation. I ask what are the tasks of this working group in the near future and whether these tasks could include looking for a solution to this problem, that, through Polish companies and unfortunately, in accordance with European Union rules, cheap labour is introduced into Estonia, who does not actually pay taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U403	Thank you. This is a very important and very broad question. I'm gonna grab one end. As far as this working group is concerned, it is certainly not intended to seek solutions to sanction one or the other. Their task is to look to the long-term future. They were already doing a very good job in the second half of last year and are still continuing. There are representatives of public authorities and interest groups, including employers, the people and researchers of the Service Economy Chamber, and there are also people in the working group in this hall. Their aim is to look for long-term solutions to regulate the labour market "in a positive way" in Estonia, for example, in five or ten years. For example, should we look for a model of our score system for Estonia. This is a very complex issue, because this system is being used by countries where highly-paid professionals, such as Canada and New Zealand, want to go. But I'm sure we could also have some sort of option that we could work out. If you are talking about a so-called temporary agency worker, there is a question of illegal employment. I also said in Question Time, and I am happy to repeat this now, that further proposals are currently on the coordination circle in the ministries, and as a matter of urgency, they will come before you soon. There are several points. When we talk about a thing like temporary agency work, the first step in dealing with it is that we also introduce an obligation to register them. European legislation does not prohibit this, but it has still not been used in Estonia, and unfortunately we do not have an overview of the use of temporary agency workers. What is its purpose? The aim is to'rewind' the labour market of the country of origin or intermediary. As we know, the infringement arises when a company that rents its workforce in Estonia, for example, from Poland, does not have its own economic activity. The principle is often that Estonian schemers make a shell company in Poland, whose business is, for example, construction, and then people are arranged here as a so-called temporary agency worker. Cooperation with Poland is very important here. I am sure that Poland itself is interested in this. Why? Because such schemes should actually pay taxes in Poland. The rental principle is that you pay taxes in the intermediary country and then you work temporarily in another country for a while. Poland also misses these amounts and this creates bad fame for Poland. So we have work to do in this area, but next to this, I say that the wider complex of anti-illegal activities is not only about the illegal use of temporary agency workers. There are two types of illegal workers: those who are staying in Estonia illegally and who work illegally, and others who are legally present in Estonia but who work illegally. They are, in fact, the largest group of people who are instigating our labour market. It is not even those people who do this, but those employers who use these workers. We are planning a series of legal restrictions and sanctions against them in order to be compatible with the situation that has arisen in Estonia in a few years, as economic growth is demanding new hands. But it's a very long subject, I'm just dropping it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U404	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U405	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Economic growth would provide an opportunity for innovation so that we do not need so much cheap labour. However, I do have a question relating to language requirements. One of my sons works in Finland, he's a doctor, so he's a top specialist, but it's out of the question that he doesn't speak Finnish. According to this bill, it is as if there is no need to demand proper language skills from top specialists. Don't you think you should at least be articulate and some kind of professorship, where you need to know the language?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U406	Yeah, that's a very good point. I mean, there are other laws. If we bring an alien to the country (I am talking about the logic of this law) and after five years the employer wants to extend his work permit, and he is working in a position where a higher level of proficiency in Estonian is not required, for example, he works in the machinery plant Czech, and if the employer personally does not want to be spoken to in higher-level Estonian, we will write down the same A-level. At the same time, when we talk about professions such as doctors, there are many more, including the service sphere, these professions are governed by other laws, which also include language skills requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U407	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U408	Thank you. You said earlier that the Estonians' return migration has become positive. I'm very interested in what kind of statistics or what kind of data you're referring to. For example, 17616 people came to Estonia in 2017, less than half of which were Estonian citizens, not all Estonians, and left 12358 people, two thirds of whom were Estonian citizens. So it is quite clear, however, that the emigration of Estonians is considerably higher than immigration and that it is primarily people of foreign origin who migrate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U409	Thank you. We have exactly the same debate we had during the day, but that's great, repeating is the mother of wisdom. Statistics Estonia has specified the methodology for the statistical identification of its country of origin. According to this, the return migration of people of Estonian origin became positive in 2017. But about the other numbers you brought in here, I'll repeat what I said the other day: you'll include temporary agents. Temporary workers are those who, according to today's law, come not according to this bill, but according to the law that we have today for nine months and then leave. That is what is distorting this number when we talk about people coming from third countries, because we are not talking about the European Union, where the calculation is entirely different and different.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U410	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U411	I want to come back to the fact that life has improved in Estonia and therefore emigration has decreased. Last night I was in one of the counties that are relatively far away from Tallinn, I am not going to name it exactly, where I met local people, mostly employers who complained that there were really labour problems, but the point is that people continue to leave Estonia. If we now imagine that the economic growth you were talking about, maybe a year, maybe two years, maybe three years from now, will collapse, it will not be that big, then what is the government's perspective, how will we cope with the labour problem if people start leaving Estonia even more dynamically?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U412	Thank you. I am an optimist, I think Estonia is doing well. It can always be said that there are setbacks, yes, there may be setbacks in the economy, but I think we have secured ourselves a different position than we had before the previous economic crisis. Banks have become much, say, more conservative when granting loans, and our markets have also become more secure. But for that, it's kind of philosophical talk. I want to say that that is why this immigration limit, as you can see, has not changed. We are talking about temporary workers, whom the Estonian state really does not have to take social care of when they leave in a year's time. These people are not related to the Estonian state; they are linked to the economic cycles. For example, two or three years ago there were very few temporary workers, although there were laws. At the moment, if entrepreneurs want to implement their plans, it is that they are looking for employees. The people of Estonia, by the way, are also moving around the territory of Estonia very much, you know that very well. I was in Narva Saturday, for example. Young people in Narva go, say, as the first step in their self-realization in the region of Tallinn and Harjumaa. I think that people from South-East Estonia and elsewhere are doing the same because there are more rewarding jobs here today. They'll go back, too. It's a long story. But we defend our labour market, we do not open up, we do not liberalise immigration, we do not take away these historical restrictions, we are looking for solutions. Greater added value is created by a top specialist. It is clear that if we have our own person, each employer takes his own person, it is more comfortable. We are talking about double the average wage in Estonia. We are talking about the fact that we are actually reducing the cyclicality of the economy by means of temporary work, which will not affect the jobs of the Estonian people in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U413	Hardi Volmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U414	Minister, thank you very much. If I understand correctly, the amendment in question contains certain concessions or differences concerning professionals in the field of culture, but for some reason only specialists in the field of physical culture. What's the difference, why just body culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U415	Good colleague! I have to tell you, I have to read the bill first. When we talk about sports judges with certain advantages, they've been in the Aliens Act for years. Three changes have been made to the bill, as I reported. I repeat these: extending temporary work from nine months to a year, removing top specialists, i.e. those earning two average salaries, from a quota of 0.1% of the Estonian population, and the third thing is the requirement for language skills for people whose residence permit is extended for more than five years to work. These are the changes. These things that you have talked about are in the Aliens Act, which unfortunately is one of the most complicated, larger and larger laws in Estonia, already within the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U416	Thank you, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Mart Nutt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U417	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft at a regular meeting of the Constitutional Commission on 30 April. In addition to the members of the committee, Mari Rebane, Adviser to the Minister for the Interior, Ruth Annus, Head of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, and Eva Lillemäe and Doris Uude, advisers of the same department, participated in the discussion. The Minister of the Interior has now given a very comprehensive overview in this Chamber, and the advisors of the Minister of the Interior also gave an overview in the Commission. None of these issues, which were opened through questions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, were still covered in the Chamber. Perhaps most of all, the debate was caused by the same issue of temporary agency workers, but the Minister of the Interior also gave a comprehensive answer to this. So I have nothing to add from the Commission's debate on this in itself. That is why I am taking procedural decisions. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for today's meeting. This decision was taken in a consensual manner. I will mention the voters by name: Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Jaak Madison, Lauri Luik, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Tiit Terik, Toomas Jürgenstein and Toomas Paur. It was decided to propose the termination of the first reading, with 8 members in favour, one against and no abstentions. Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Lauri Luik, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Tiit Terik, Toomas Jürgenstein and Toomas Paur voted against this decision by Jaak Madison. Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 23 May 2018 for the submission of amendments. This decision was also taken in consensus, but I am not going to repeat the voters, I have already read them twice. Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as a consensual decision, was appointed rapporteur. Therefore, the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to conclude the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U418	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Mart Nutt! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põlluaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U419	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! We have heard many times about how immigration quotas in Estonia will not be cancelled. Good to hear it! We all know that the immigration quota permits the import of about 1300 foreigners per year, and it will not be cancelled. However, every month or soon, the government comes out every week with a draft, where this immigration quota will be re-created and re-created with some kind of new exception, which will allow some new contingent to be brought in again. We just had a bill on this table so we could start bringing in au pairs, or domestic workers, which is because we really don't have any need for them. Most strangely, this whole contingent is exempt from paying taxes in Estonia. Today we are talking about another exception, I cannot tell you how many it is, whether it is 18 or 20, but more and more it is bypassing this quota. We are seeing more and more how the process of replacing the Estonian population and Estonian nationality takes place in our home, and this is done with two-faced excuses and excuses. The explanatory memorandum tells us how the position of Estonian language and culture must be protected and the aspect of integration taken into account. At the same time, this language requirement, which is introduced into the law and which is only partially imposed on a very narrow group, is not required at all by others, is A2. As I said, level A2 means that a person can express his needs using simple phrases: 'I'm hungry. I want to pee. ' Forgive the top specialists we bring into Estonia with this language level, and then we say that they create added value for our economy, that we need them! Dig a ditch suitable for such people in a good case, they are not top specialists. It would be at least level B1, which gives us the ability to understand an important story on a subject that we know, such as work and leisure. It's absolutely indescribable! And even if this kind of company is already here and they wish to extend their residence permit, after they have lived here for five years, they are not required to have a better knowledge of the Estonian language, but it is sufficient for them to repeat for five years that they are hungry and want to pee. And we extend the residence permit for people of this quality, we give them permission to be in Estonia again and to do the work of a top specialist! Let's take a broader look. More than 100,000 of their people, top specialists and smaller specialists have left Estonia. In order to bring them back to Estonia, we do not think about that. The minister said God forbid we'd do anything to bring our people back! Oh, no! Instead, we open the doors to replace our people with everyone else. In Estonia, there are 10,000 15,000 illegal workers; we have over 5,000 temporary agency workers. In fact, we don't know at all how many there are, they're just police hypothetical figures, they could be three times as many. We're massively bringing in the workforce to those areas where our people are leaving... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U420	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U421	... because the wage level is low and is at least two and a half or three times higher in the neighbouring country. If we replace these people with cheap labour from third countries, there is never hope that wage levels will rise in Estonia and our people will return. We are constantly multiplying that the population is hugely important; it must grow. Come on, I'm sorry! We know the world, and we know the countries that are smaller than us, but which are richer than us, and we know the countries that are much bigger than us, where there are many more hands, but which are much poorer than us. If we do not want to remain in the poverty trap, we do not want to remain dependent on the migrant labour force that actually pushes Estonian language and culture out of here at the end of the day, then we need to think about other things. We need to think about innovation, technological development, digitalisation, automation, retraining, vocational training, how to occupy people who have been excluded from the labour market. That's the solution! It's predicted that in 25 years, you'll need half the work force you've got today. So, what do we do with the people we brought in? Then they'll all stay in our social services. Are we capable of doing this? Are we ready for this? We have 13,000 unfilled jobs, but we have 30,000 unemployed. We have 30,000 young people who don't work or learn. Over 100,000 people have gone abroad because of small wages. We have 48,000 pensioners, but we have a total of 400,000. We have students, we have students whose working conditions could be made significantly more flexible, but we will not do that because God forbid we're going to bring our people back! All of this labour policy is driven by absolute disregard for the Estonian language, Estonian people, Estonian culture and the preservation of the Estonian state. The only thing that matters is that entrepreneurs who have no sense of responsibility, nor does our government, get their profits quickly. It's a lot easier to bet on cheap labor than on technology. Especially considering that most of our business belongs to foreign capital, this is understandable. They have no concern at all about the sustainability of the Estonian people. But we must have this concern, and this policy must be stopped! Therefore, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to interrupt the first reading of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U422	The negotiations are over. But if you have not learned the Rules of Procedure in three years, I will give you the opportunity to correct yourself. [[A voice from the hall.]] In position, please! (Voice of the floor: 'I would like to interrupt the first reading. " Laughter and excitement in the hall.) This proposal does not comply with the Home and Working Procedures Act, i.e. it is illegal. But I give the floor to Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U423	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. We ask that the draft be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U424	I would be very grateful if you would also make this proposal in writing. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U425	As long as Mr Helme is filling out the paper, I also have one comment on the Rules of Procedure. Martin Helme proposed to the speaker. We don't have that kind of person. Can you tell me who this proposal was submitted to?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-09_U426	Yes, it was unfortunately the use of a foreign language which is not provided for in our Home and Working Procedures Act. We respect Estonian better! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject draft 617 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 6 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, against 33. Attention! The sitting is not yet closed. First reading of Bill 617 has been completed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 23 May. Good night. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Elagu Eesti!'???]] Closure of the sitting at 19.06.
