ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U1	Hi! Question Time. Incoming check, please! The attendance in Question Time was registered by 33 members of the Riigikogu. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Urve Palo, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, and Mailis Reps, Minister of Education and Science are present. I will give the debate on each subject an opportunity to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U2	The first questioner is Jürgen Ligi and the first is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Last week, the Reform Party submitted a draft law amending the Citizenship Act, which eliminates the conflict between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act and allows double citizenship for post-natal citizens. Secondly, it harmonises the paragraphs on the withdrawal of nationality. The first is the main issue of the draft, the second is the smaller issue. But you responded to this news with a statement as if the Reform Party were dealing with ethnic confrontation. It is a toxic subject and such a statement is very intriguing. What, apart from party self-interest, can justify when the procedure of the Citizenship Act is being discussed as a matter of national instigation? You're the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U4	President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Seriously, this complex issue needs to be addressed in Estonian society. I think it's the right point and the right direction. In my opinion, there are currently two draft laws in the Riigikogu relating to the issue of citizenship. I start with the fact that the Government has submitted a draft law supplementing the Citizenship Act 629 which has now passed the first reading in this honourable Riigikogu and whose purpose and content is language learning for foreigners who have resided legally in Estonia for at least five years and who meet the basic conditions for applying for citizenship and wish to apply for Estonian citizenship. Language education is free of charge for an alien and the state grants him or her compensation at the time he or she has received unpaid study leave for language studies in agreement with the employer. Language learning agreements are scheduled to start in January next year and the cost of language learning is estimated at EUR 3.7 million over the next three years. Indeed, the second draft is the one initiated by the Reform Party on 9 May, which is the draft law amending the Citizenship Act 634, which aims to allow double citizenship, but only for Estonian residents with birth citizenship. Among other things, you would like to supplement the law with the possibility that a person who has received Estonian citizenship for special services can be deprived of citizenship by decision of the Government of the Republic (I am now quoting the explanatory memorandum to your draft), 'if the person's attitude towards the Republic of Estonia has become inappropriate'. I am based here on one of the constitutions. § 8 (4) of the Constitution makes it clear: 'No one is allowed to take Estonian citizenship for reasons of conviction. '
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U5	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U6	Mr. Prime Minister! We have little time, so please answer the question. What, apart from party self-interest, led you to accuse us of national opposition? Where did the 'ethnic' come from, where did these interpretations come from? This bill uses the wording of § 11 of the Aliens Act and the wording of the Constitution and nothing else. Laws have been harmonised among themselves, and there is no comment on nationalities here. You've made a statement that someone is opposing that the authors are opposed to the nations. This is a very intimidating, highly controversial and hateful statement. Please state the reasons for your statement. Don't talk about what's in your bill, tell me why you're acting like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U7	Thank you, very dear Jürgen Ligi. Dear Jürgen, the reactions that different Estonian politicians have had have, in this case, come from what you said in the Estonian press in connection with the procedure of this draft law. I am pleased that this position, which has been put forward by the new chairman of your party, goes against your views. I think that Kaja Kallas is right here in any case, and I hope that you will also come to this key aspect, which is one side of the draft law of the Reform Party. I would like to say that I think you and the Reform Party have started to compete seriously, which is the most extreme right-wing party in Estonia. I think you're doing pretty well in this competition. At the same time, this Reform Party, which I feel and what I know, has stood for liberal values, for European principles, for various freedoms, not for deprivation of freedoms and for prohibitions. Your party chairman, Kaja Kallas, said in his throne speech at the Reform Party Congress that it is strange to look at the wishes to regulate patriotism. He has also said that freedom also means that people must have the right to make a mistake without being permanently nailed to the wall. I think it's still your starting point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U8	Honourable Riigikogu, I understand that the introductory sentence of Question Time that I am giving an opportunity to ask a question was either incomprehensible, inaccessible, incomprehensible or something else. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! In fact, you still didn't answer the question of how this confrontation of nations came out of our draft and what led to that conclusion. So I'm asking for an answer. But it also amazes me that about six months ago, the vice-president of the Central Party made a similar bill for taking away citizenship for special services, but then you didn't talk about any conflicting nationalities, nothing. This was a long and wide range of articles in the press. Although the bill has not reached the Riigikogu, yes, but it is rather the fruit of your slowness and the non-working of your government, not the fruit of your will. So I am still asking for an explanation of the conflict between nationalities and, in particular, in our draft, the emergence of this conflict between nationalities. Where did this conclusion come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U10	Thank you. I am talking about the draft transferred by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, namely the draft law amending the Citizenship Act. This bill was submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings on 9 May. Today, 16 May, a member of the Riigikogu, Jürgen Ligi, asks me and the subject is citizenship. This is the assumption on which I will answer that my position is to continue and strongly support the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. After all, § 8 (4) of the Constitution says in very specific and unambiguous terms (you will see it when you adopt the Constitution): 'No one can take Estonian citizenship for reasons of conviction. ' I began to answer the honourable Jürgen Ligi's first question by saying that this draft law on the amendment of the Citizenship Act, which you initiated on 9 May, 634, is, in my opinion, very much of the content that needs to be debated. The same question, which I have also pointed out, of allowing double citizenship only to Estonian citizens who have received citizenship at birth, is in fact unnegotiated in society. On the one hand, there is a Constitution, on the other hand, the Citizenship Act and on the third hand there are real people who have two citizenships, such as the citizenship of the Kingdom of Sweden, Estonia or the United States of America and Estonia. So, of course, there's something that can go on. If you ask me what I'm going to do, I'll say I'm going to go with what you've put into the proceedings. I support finding such a common ground here to further discuss these issues, but I do not support a Reform Party that has begun to fight for the position of the most extreme right-wing party. I think you should go back to the source.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U11	I will conclude on this issue. Jürgen Ligi, you can ask me a procedural question. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U12	Yes, Mr President, I would like to ask you a question. You have explained my very limited rights, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister about much wider rights. Does he have the right to answer the question? I actually put the question this way: why is he talking about opposing nationalities in relation to a bill where nationalities are not at all a subject? Does the Prime Minister have the duty to answer the question of a member of the Riigikogu, or can he just give up two minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U13	The Prime Minister is obliged to answer the question and the President of the Riigikogu is not responsible for the content of the Prime Minister's answers. Every prime minister, minister or whoever is responsible for this. I'm going to finish the question. Now Valdo Randpere has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U14	Thank you. I have a bit, but not exactly the same question. If I understood the Prime Minister correctly, he just said that he actually wanted to discuss these matters terribly, but at the same time, he is basking in the press the first reaction that this is an incitement to hatred between nations, and in this Chamber of Riigikogu Question Time he actually refuses to answer that question. Can't the manager call him in?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U15	The manager really can't tell the Prime Minister what to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U16	The next answer is Mailis Reps and Asker Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! The Ministry is moving strongly forward with the construction and development of state secondary schools. My question focuses on a town called Rakvere. Rakvere Gymnasium is located in a very beautiful, specially designed and specially constructed building of architect Alar Kotli. Now a new building is planned for Rakvere State Gymnasium. Why not fix and use this Alar Kotli specially designed building for upper secondary school, which was already one of the most appreciated, recognized and praised architectural achievements in Estonia in the 1930s? Why has Rakvere now decided on a new building?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U18	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, state secondary schools, just as you started your question, have been vigorously moved forward. In addition to the traditional upper secondary schools in Nõo and Noaroots, which have existed since 1994, this has been progressing in the county centres since 2013 and has now arrived in Rakvere's hands. During the discussions on the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, it was very clear here in the Riigikogu that state secondary schools should come to each county centre. How do these state secondary schools come about? The state, on the one hand, says that we are willing to finance it in cooperation with the European taxpayer, and, on the other hand, the local authority. The parties are the Ministry of Education, the RKAS, who helps with procurement and planning, as well as the local government. The places to which state secondary schools come have, in fact, been very much a matter for the local community to decide, since this is still an integral part of the educational network in the region. In Rakvere, a plot of land located in the immediate vicinity of this very centre of Pärt and the building designed by Kotli has been offered for the construction of the upper secondary school. Why is a new house preferred to an old house in many places? I speak purely from experience. Time is running out, I hope to further develop this issue in response to the question to be specified. In short, both options are possible, both have pros and cons. It's a local community-state deal, but the new house clearly has its perks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U19	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! I really think the new house has its perks and the old house has its perks. But from your answer, I realized that, above all, this decision is made by the local community in favour of which to choose. If the local community is divided into two parts, one is in favour and the other is opposed, will the country, whose task is also to evaluate the same national cultural heritage, receive and want with its recommendations, and will it have any opportunity at all to influence this process so that, in fact, through this schoolhouse, through the activities of this school, we value the existing and very valuable cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U21	Thank you. First of all, if you'll excuse me, I'll bring some parallels. We have county centres that have a new building built on the state gymnasium. The plus of the new building is that it can create an environment that meets expectations and new learning approaches that we have in common. There are very interactive classrooms that enable the teaching of several disciplines, where you can build chemistry labs that meet completely new requirements, test rooms in physics class, etc. Today, we are building round, oval schools just so that all children can get together in this high school at one point in a positive way. Atrians are usually at the same time also canteens, honours, concert halls etc. There are no such opportunities in the old house. The old building is certainly not as energy efficient and the costs are slightly higher there. These are the reasons why we should choose a new house. However, there are also many advantages in maintaining and developing existing historical buildings. So why communities at times have chosen this path, we understand that. But what is the nature of Rakvere? This house designed by Kotli is used either way, it is necessary for comprehensive school in Rakvere. So if the Rakvere Council were to give this house to the state gymnasium, there would be a situation where a new house would have to be built for the primary school because the basic school children would not fit into the existing two schools. That's one side of the subject. The other party, which is a little more complicated, is that Rakvere has at the same time applied for support for a school located at the same address in the framework of a comprehensive school measure. The council must also consider that we cannot provide funding at the same time under the two measures, the basic school measure and the upper secondary school measure. Of course, it is not my place to say for Innove whether Rakvere would receive 100% of the funding from the basic school measure, but they are most likely to have arguments as to why they would be worthy of this support. So there are a lot of reasons why the council is a bit awaiting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U22	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, One side of the question is how the local community in Rakvere decided whether the school alumni were involved. We have heard a different view that we would be happy to see precisely this Kotli house in this function. You also said that the state, local government and State Real Estate AS are the ones with the greatest influence when considering this decision. My question is also: what place in this decision-making process is still the argument that our classic architectural heritage is in use and that it will perform its public function with dignity?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U24	Thank you for a very good question. Very high up. We are looking at many and many years of disputes, such as the so-called Posti Street House in Paide, which has been here several times in the Riigikogu. There are exactly these arguments that there is a historic property and the local community says that the creation of a state gymnasium would allow the order of one heritage-protected object to be brought back to the educational establishment. Very similar arguments were put forward in Valga, and the same reasoning was given. I understand the ancient meaning of this building. The specific nature of Rakvere is simply that this building is in use anyway and no one has at any time considered the possibility that an educational institution should go out of there. This is, I understand, the reason why the decision of the Rakvere Council is not, let's say, the same weight as the decision made in several other places, where, for example, the historic building of a commercial upper secondary school or a gymnasium for girls has been chosen. Is that one of the arguments? Yes, of course it is, but we must consider that such a decision is certainly restrictive. When we look at the state gymnasiums that are in historical buildings, we see that they are a little more traditional in the design of classrooms and they certainly are not, say, modern in some sense, but these buildings have their value. If we are to have regard to the continuity of education, it is clear that these historic buildings have a very, very large impact on education. Manor schools and the historical school buildings of Tallinn or Tartu are loved because these buildings give the school their breath. So in any case, we're waiting for Rakvere's decision, but it's important to get clear and move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U25	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U26	Reply from Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, asks Mart Helme. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have repeatedly claimed that Estonia needs 7000 IT specialists. We did some homework. A quick check on the CV Centre page showed that there are currently 151 IT specialists to offer jobs for the whole of Estonia. These 151 places must be on all the IT specialties. We also looked at IT companies and found that there are problems in some places in order to provide people with sufficient workload. Please explain where your claim about 7000 IT specialists comes from. What are the companies where these people would go to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U28	Thank you very much for your question. Yeah, well, the minister doesn't count them alone, but in order to say something, they still have to be researched or analyzed. My claims are based on surveys by members of an association such as the Estonian Association for Information Technology and Telecommunications. Hundreds of members have said that 7,000 specialists are already missing and 8600 are missing by 2020. After all, Estonia is not the only one who talks about the lack of IT specialists, although we are known as an e-state and we have a lot of emerging IT companies, as well as new start-ups, where IT specialists are also needed. I would stress that an IT specialist is not only a programme writer, an IT specialist may also be a data processor, an IT specialist may be the one working in the manufacturing industry, for example, with machines and equipment. So the concept of an IT specialist is in itself much wider than the traditional programme writer. I recently heard (I may be wrong here) that Sweden is already talking about over 30,000 IT specialists missing. This is a growing problem throughout the region, in our neighbouring countries, also in Germany. It is very important that we stand out in this competition and be attractive to have IT specialists coming to Estonia from outside. Wages in this sector are significantly higher than the average of the Estonian state. This means that if we can hire IT specialists, we will also get more tax revenue, not to mention that they will help to develop, digitise, automatise the company, which will result in increased company productivity and, as a result, increase people's wages and incomes, as well as revenue from the Treasury.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U29	Mart Helme's additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U30	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Our group will probably ask that you also answer us in writing and give us an overview of who is specifically members of this cyber union, or whatever organisation it was, who has supplied you with these data. Our maybe superficial and not representative survey among IT students showed that they have problems finding a job. Somehow these ends don't add up. Are we really dealing with different plug-tips or what is the question? Or is it money? Perhaps companies who claim to have a shortage of labour are hoping to receive some financial support for finding and implementing specialists?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U31	Thank you. Of course, ITL is the institution or association, i.e. the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association. I can ask them to share with you the results of their survey, with pleasure. But when we talk about the lack of IT specialists, I can say that I also meet with other associations at a certain frequency, either the Chamber of Commerce or the Confederation of Employers. Yesterday, for example, I met an umbrella organisation representing chambers of commerce. The representatives of ten countries were around the table, who also talked about the difficulty of finding top specialists at all. It is difficult to find them in Estonia, including IT specialists. For example, Statistics Estonia has forecast that by 2026 it will be 10 years from now, even less, already eight years from now, there will be about 608000 people in Estonia who participate in active working life, i.e. 60,000 fewer than today, and there will be a shortage of top specialists of about 29,000. When it comes to the support of foreign specialists, with which we want to help entrepreneurs from outside in the introduction of IT specialists, this project is self-effective. This means that it is only after the person who has come to Estonia has worked here for at least five months and has been paid at least 2 000 euros a month. We know about Estonia's labour tax: if the gross wage is 2,000 euros, of which almost 1 000 euros are taxes that will later come to the Treasury. So in five months, the country will receive EUR 5 000 per person, and for 2 000 people, we are talking about EUR 64 million per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U32	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U33	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I was motivated by your answers to the question. Firstly, around European countries there is a shortage of specialists everywhere, where a thousand, where tens of thousands. Secondly, the money we use to enable the introduction of specialists could be used to train our own people. Moreover, if it turns out that there is such a shortage of labour in this area, people might go to study this specialty themselves. Do we really not have enough people of our own? The second question: where can we get these people when they are missing in countries around them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U34	Thank you. That's a good question. First of all, it is estimated, for example, that 37000 IT specialists will be needed in total in Estonia in 2020. So if we're talking about bringing 2,000 specialists from outside by then, that's a very small part of the 37000 who get jobs in this sector. In any case, the priority for me, the government and the Estonian state is to help their people to work, train and train them first. There are also many training programmes for this purpose, both in the Ministry of Education and in the Information Technology Department of our Ministry. For example, there are programs that we help train, I don't know, 500 people to become programmers. They are trained in depth; they are such long training courses at employers for people who have acquired another profession in the past, but now they want to become an IT specialist because their earlier work no longer brings bread on the table or they simply want to acquire another speciality. In addition, thousands of people are being trained to help train IT specialists for the processing industry, there are training courses that help train decision-makers in manufacturing industry or business, including managers. So there are very, very many trainings. I would like to stress to your heart that this is, in any case, a priority: helping our own people to work and, if necessary, helping them to learn around. The outsiders are cumbersome in all the mass that can work in this sector. But even though we're training, we're still short on top specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U35	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U36	The next questioner is Heidy Purga and the respondent is Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U37	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the communication activities of your ministry during this bitter working time. Last week, the Postimees newspaper published a story from which we learned that the Ministry of Education and Research had hired a communication advisor to do the Chancellor's social media posts. My first question is this: what is the nature of the communication advisor of this Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research at a time when the state is trying to reduce bureaucracy and the administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U38	Thank you for a very good question. Indeed, I am happy to introduce the ministry's sectoral activities, including the restructuring of the ministry. In the Ministry of Education and Research, there are now three Vice-Chancellors, instead of the four Vice-Chancellors, and as a result of these reorganisations and amendments to the Statute, I myself have been convinced of all the changes that have been made to the Question Time. There are fewer Vice Chancellors, so we are also significantly reducing the officials. The 6th Division is now run by the Chancellor himself. Each Vice-Chancellor works under a separate communication strategy dealing with the relevant areas, such as language or youth communication. In addition to introducing activities through the use of mainstream media, the activities of the Ministry are naturally introduced to social media. Mrs. Margit Kappaku was mentioned in the article. Indeed, in addition to other tasks (organisation of events, drafting of texts, publications, information materials and others, which are common in the Communication Department), his job guide states that the six areas that are directly managed by the Chancellor must be covered in social media. In preparing the answer to today's question, Margit Kapak himself, assessing his workload, felt that he had been able to devote no more than 2% of his working time to the social sector, but he would certainly like to increase the share of social media in his duties. I can tell you that one large part of his work is to introduce the development of strategies and it will certainly be more inclusive of social media.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U39	Heidy Purga, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U40	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. My next question concerns the same language area and communication in the light of this article and your article. In this article, we also saw a screen image of one of the entries made by this communication advisor on the social media platform. How important does the Ministry of Education and Research consider the ability to communicate in good Estonian when hiring additional officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U41	Thank you. We consider this very, very important. We consider it important that all people who work in the Communications Department and in the Ministry of Education at all could write in good Estonian. Let's stress that they can do it in English. We also have a communication specialist who can exchange information in Russian and does it in good Russian. All the languages we use in the information channels of the Ministry of Education must be used correctly and well, but, of course, Estonian is special, because we are also responsible for the language area. The language used in social media is a very exciting topic. If we recall the discussion in the language area in the Riigikogu, as well as the thorough seminars, conferences or debates organised by the language people themselves, the question arises where there is a border between the very correct Estonian language and perhaps a little more informal, social media language. Do authorities always have to use the correct written language on social media, which could be the expectation of all people in the language field? Social media often uses a rather friendly tone. So where's the balance? It needs to be felt calmly. But today it can be clearly said that the Ministry of Education and Research has taken a very clear leading role in the preparation of major new sectoral strategies. The Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research personally deals with this, and he himself appreciates that explaining information on social media must certainly be one of the key words for involving larger social groups and interest groups, but this must certainly be done in the correct Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U42	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U43	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! My question is in the field of mathematics. Namely, I participated in the round table on the funding of youth associations, where the topic was the abolition of the Gambling Tax Council, which the Riigikogu will soon and soon deal with, and consequently the funding of youth associations. The current situation is that it is financed directly from the Ministry on the basis of contracts, plus the money that can be obtained on a project basis through the Council. A representative of the Ministry told us that 1 + 1 will not be equal to 2, but 1 + 1 will be equal to 1. Why all this math? Why do youth organisations rather not have the prospect of being more involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U44	Thank you. That's a good question. We can certainly discuss the completion of the work of the Gambling Tax Council and its whole reorganisation here in the Riigikogu. First of all, having been in this Council for more than ten years, I was quite skeptical until the last moment whether it was the smartest decision to put an end to this Council. However, as a result of very long discussions and institutional reflections, they took place together with the same young people themselves, all have come to the belief that longer-term, two to three-year social partners' contracts, which provide stronger basic funding, should be given priority over project-based applications for one-off events. The Ministry of Education and Research has proposed an increase in the annual grants for youth associations in its field, so 1 + 1 is definitely 2. But actually, 1 + 1 can also be 3, because in addition to increasing the annual grants, we are considering how to plan things two or three years in advance at the same time if we want long-term contracts. We will certainly do this together with social partners, such as the same youth associations, because there is now the Youth Council with the Minister. There we will take this issue up again in detail to discuss how to anticipate the activities that have so far been asked for extra money, such as one-off events or some kind of campaigns, and really hand that amount over to this organisation so that it can plan activities peacefully and such activities do not go away. But this debate on what these sums are going to be is now in its initial phase. The ministry probably meant that regular annual grants would not come aside, but the sums would certainly increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U46	Next, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer Andres Herkel's question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Midfield OÜ has sent a confession to the Financing Supervision Commission of the Parties, which says that the Centre Party was not billed for EUR 1.24 million between 2009 and 2015. I appeal to you as the source to ask what this has been all about. Has this been a forbidden donation, a non-refundable loan, as some representatives of the Centre Party have tried to say, or has it been simply a failure to provide information to the Political Financing Supervision Commission about the debt you have knowingly concealed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U48	Thank you, good questioner! I'll start with a positive and happy side. Mr. Herkel, your strength under the leadership of the party! I think we're both quite consistent. I have consistently told you that there is an open door for you to come to the Centre Party, and you are constantly trying to play there on the threshold to either come in or not. Given that you were re-elected Chairman of the Free Party, there will be some delay, but I understand you still have that interest. I say I don't close the door, and I think the subject might be on the table very freely. You're giving me an interesting assignment. You're going to give me three answers, which is fine. But maybe there's a fourth answer, and that's what it seems to me that Midfield is misrepresenting about the Centre Party. You didn't give me that answer. I think that the Free Party should still give people a little more freedom of response, there is no need to put them in a very specific box to answer that way. I know that the Secretary-General of the Centre Party has said that Paavo Pettai's claim for money is false and that the company has not submitted to the ERJK any contract between it and the Centre Party, nor has it indicated whether, with whom and when these agreements have been concluded. In any case, I say on behalf of the party's secretary-general and myself that we are open to contact with the ERJK in order to get this matter off the table as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U49	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! On this issue, my position in the Free Party is not important, but on this issue it is important that a large number of observers have confirmed that, during the period under review, in the years 2009 to 2015, the cognitive election costs of the Centre Party were significantly higher than the amount declared to the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. Perhaps the question arises as to how it could have been this way for such a long time. My question is who were the members of the Executive Board of the Centre Party in 2009-2015. Were you on the board? Are you personally free of this suspicion of fraud? After all, they are trying to show that all the wrong activities that took place took place thanks to Edgar Savisaar. The leadership of the Centre Party, however, has taken place in a much wider way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U51	Thank you. If, as a member of the Riigikogu, you start blaming another politician and questioning him, of course, your choice is free. But it seems to me that this has not been the path of the Free Party; rather, these investigations must be carried out by the respective authorities. As I answered your first question, in any case cooperation with the ERJK works, and I consider it important that the party provides as many answers as possible. I only have a little something, I'd say, I'm sorry. I see that you are constantly applying a sovereign, autonomous institution such as the ERJK, in front of your campaign cart. I don't know how right that is. They have to do their job, and I think they're doing their job professionally. Your second question was who were the board members of the Centre Party during the period you asked about, I think, in 2009/2015. I'm sorry, but this is the period, I think, three board members. In order to tell you now, out of your mind, all those 30 to 40 people, I really am not ready right now. I know that in 2011, for example, I had the honour of running for the chairmanship of the Centre Party, but not for the Board of the Centre Party, and if you don't run for the Board, you won't get there either. So if you want to know who the board members of the Centre Party were then, I think that the Secretary-General of the Free Party will certainly be able to send an e-mail to his good fellow from the Centre Party about this. It's not a secret in our party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U52	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U53	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I interpret this issue in such a way that it is the prime minister of the state who runs one of the largest political parties in Estonia. If there are doubts and confusion in this party, can we be sure that everything in our government is transparent and understandable? Perhaps my question is: can we members of the Riigikogu and the entire Estonian society be sure that when Janek Mäggi became minister, he and his company were not recruited to provide communication services to the Central Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U54	Thank you. First of all, I specify: as far as I know, the Centre Party is the largest party in Estonia, not one of the largest. That was point one. You are right about having to deal with membership, and we are working hard on it. After all, I told the previous questioner that he was welcome. Now your concern for the Centre Party, I understand that, the election campaign and Janek Mägg. I don't know, I see that this interest of the Free Party in our party's activities is actually wider, that interest is not just your chairman, and if you have the same desire, I will also welcome you. If there are good people who want to be involved in an election campaign, I don't know how you want to be involved, either as a candidate or as a supporter, then, for God's sake, I think that freedom is definitely there. When you asked if the Minister, with the help of his company, was going to campaign the Centre Party, I did not propose to him. I have asked Mr Mägg to take up the position of Minister of State Administration. I am pleased that he has adopted it and that the President has signed this decision. Janek Mäggi has taken an oath here, he's doing his job, and that's all that matters. The most important thing is this sectorial work in the key to regional policy to support Estonian regions, such as the Ida-Virumaa programme, the South-East Estonia programme, and the progress with state houses. Those are the questions. The removal of jobs from Tallinn is important for today's government. If you want to get involved here, you're welcome in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U55	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U56	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps answers the question asked by Arno Sild. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, the parents of students at the Tamme Upper Secondary School have raised the question that they do not agree with the option of studying in the evening shift. What is the position of the Ministry, and what is the solution? We're talking about modular classes here, but is there another or a third option? How do you, as Minister, see the solution to this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U58	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, how does the law regulate it? After all, we are now in the Riigikogu. The law says that the local government must ensure that all its children have the opportunity to study. The regulations of the ministries, both the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs, state that the premises must comply with health and other requirements, must ensure that the school's daily schedule is complied with and that the prescribed training arrangements are followed. The Ministry of Social Affairs' decree highlights the possibility of a second shift in addition to the first shift, but the hours must end by at least seven o'clock. What is the current state of the school network? Indeed, there are schools in Estonia where there are no children. Unfortunately, there are quite a few of them. I believe that we have taken steps jointly to finance education, that we will, however, give priority to small rural schools with higher coefficients, so that good and high-quality education can continue to be obtained there. But there are also areas where the number of children is increasing. The city of Tartu is one of those regions where the number of children is increasing in the coming years. In addition to Tamme Upper Secondary School, the way in which 900 pupils are distributed, between which schools, and how the best solution can be created so that parents are satisfied, is certainly discussed in Tartu. The parents of the children of the Oak High School have been offered to start school by 12:00 and be free by at least 4:00 a.m. Throughout the morning, children could be either in the afternoon group or engage in activities of interest, and parents have also been offered these opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U59	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I also wanted to ask if this problem is on the agenda other than Tartu. That's one. Secondly, what is the direction now, is the number of evening shift classes decreasing or increasing, or will it remain at the same level in the future? How's your vision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U61	First of all, thank you, good questioner! What is the broader picture of this situation? As I said, the number of children is decreasing in most areas of Estonia, rather than in geographical terms, but at the same time the number of children in Tartu, Tartu, Harjumaa and Tallinn is increasing and growing significantly. How has the situation been resolved? In addition to the increase in the number of children in Harjumaa, the number of school houses has increased significantly, either quite new or existing ones are being built. This is also the reason why Harjumaa has been very interested in the creation of state secondary schools, as it frees schools for primary schools. But one way or another, it's either a real night shift or a half-day class. You mentioned modules, for example, this option has been discussed in Tartu. The module has its advantages, i.e. all children can attend school in the morning, but other aspects of the school curriculum must also be taken into account. The city of Tartu has explained why they would prefer to call the children at school at 12:00 instead of having the children study in modular classes. In particular, because all other public spaces (sport spaces, cultural activity spaces, circular work spaces, etc.) may be placed in a situation where space use is too intensive in one period. For example, we take cafeterias and gyms, all of them may not withstand such pressure because it has not been taken into account. It is therefore preferable to spread the daily load. So, yes, there are places where such solutions are needed, but rather we are dealing with declining school areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U62	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that students in Tartu who have been assigned to the evening shift are otherwise busy in groups and groups of interest. Does this lead to additional financial burdens for parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U64	Thank you for a very good question. First of all, when it comes to the circles of interest and the activities organised at school, it is quite individual. There are areas where school clubs and day-to-day groups are free of charge and there are local authorities where the participation fee is not very high in groups and groups of interest, usually ranging from a few euros to a few tens of euros. As for the Oak High School, I really do not know how to answer you, you must ask the city of Tartu. These children have been allowed to take part in the afternoon group, which is known to me today. What are its organisational costs and which circles of interest are offered exactly and under which conditions, I can mediate to you if you are interested in it, but I think it is easier to ask directly from Tartu. The preceding question also concerned whether there are any other evening shifts. Yes, there is also a city of Tartu, such as Miina Härma Gymnasium, and she is in 12 schools in Tallinn. These aren't real night shifts. Maybe somebody who's watching us remembers from his high school that the hours lasted until the evening. Today, by 12:00 or 4:30 a.m., children come to school on such a half - evening shift, and even so only in younger primary classes, so that children can still be freed by 3:00 or 4:00. In basic school classes, where there are already longer days, children come to school in the morning and can still finish school at a normal time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U66	Answers Urve Palo, Minister, asks Küllik Kübarsepp, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U67	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! At the beginning of April, a big message went through the media that a fast internet will immediately reach rural areas by means of a light cable. 7 May The Postman wrote that, unfortunately, this is not the way it is, because you have not received your regulation, we are talking in an easy way about the support. Some of the more detailed answers came from the former Minister Jaak Aab, and I also consider the letter from the Competition Authority to be one of the most important. It turns out that there are unresolved problems as to whether cable reaches the real users, what obligations arise for consumers due to price policy, whether it is public procurement and whether it is compatible with state aid rules. Perhaps these are all the same issues that we have been talking about in this Chamber and in the conference room for months, and you have confirmed that everything has been resolved. Why hasn't that been the case? What is the status of this regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U68	Thank you, good questioner! I am very pleased that you have asked this question, and I am very sorry that we can have a little discussion on this issue, because time is running out. But I'll be brief. It is a perfectly normal procedure that if any draft is drawn up, it will go to the coordination circle. I sincerely thank all the institutions and ministries that have given their opinion. That's the point of coordinating, getting more knowledge. We have received about 100 comments, we have reviewed them all, and many have also taken account of them. We have met, among other things, with the officials of the Ministry of Finance and agreed on the changes we are making, what we are not doing and why we are not doing. We have also explained that in this situation it makes sense to go ahead with the measure, not the procurement, because the state does not acquire anything specifically for itself; it will not own any object later. In the context of the support measure, we want to create a situation where the company that wins the competition also puts its money down there and gets as many addresses as possible, so that as many people as possible across Estonia can get this modern broadband home. The coordination process has slowed down our schedule perhaps by a few weeks. There's nothing catastrophic about it. So, as of now, we have reviewed this draft and clarified it, it is in the hands of the lawyers of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to review it. I hope that, at the beginning of next week at the latest, if not at the end of this week, it will go back to the Ministry of Finance for five days of coordination and after that, we can already sign the regulation or I will be able to sign it and also announce the competition. With regard to the concerns of the Competition Authority, which will come at a price in seven years' time, we do not know that today. Prices are falling all the time, we cannot agree today what prices will be offered by operators in seven years' time, because the trend is actually a fall in prices. But the Technical Surveillance Authority does this observation all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U69	Külliiki Kübarsepp will be able to ask another question and the minister will answer, and then the Question Time of the Riigikogu will be over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U70	Thank you, thank you, thank you. It was very strange when you said there were no addresses. Local authorities have collected these addresses and the information should actually exist. It's very strange that every letter makes sense that these materials are not used. Specific question: before the Riigikogu elections in 2019, is it possible to knock and start working or has so far been just a socialist campaign tool?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U71	Thank you. First of all, I didn't say there were no addresses. On the contrary, the Technical Surveillance Authority made a map of white areas and is very well aware of the speed of internet access. Any citizen can visit the website of the Technical Surveillance Authority at what speed the Internet connection is at his or her address. We know that in fact only 25% of the addresses are those with high-speed internet access. Within five years, the private sector will allow a further 25% of its own resources to be made available on the basis of this mapping, i.e. about 51% of the addresses will actually be off-line in five years' time if the state does nothing. That is why we are also doing this support measure, that we are not at all satisfied with the situation. About two months after the competition has been announced, the winner should be announced. The speed at which a winner can start his work and put his dunk into the ground depends on whether or not the decision is appealed, but the conditions for the winner to receive his so-called support measure are that he must set up a high-speed internet connection at these addresses within five years and that he must also take intermediate acts. We don't pay any money in advance, we pay afterwards. As soon as any part has been made, it will receive proportionate support from the State. Part of the reward we leave at the very end to motivate him to carry out all this promise. So I can tell you, I'm sure we'll have a winner by early autumn at the latest. I hope the winner gets to work. He'll have to make his promises in five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U72	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, ministers. The Question Time of the Riigikogu is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U73	Good afternoon. Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Does anyone want to hand over any drafts or inquiries? No, I don't. One message. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! Indeed, today, right after the end of the plenary session, there will be a tennis support group start-up meeting in this Chamber. All in all, this group is called Barbi Pilvre. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U74	Let's continue. This week's Wednesday agenda first includes the first reading of the draft law amending the Hunting Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Committee on the Environment. The initiator's waitress is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm happy to introduce you to the law of hunting and...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U76	I'm sorry, Rainer Vakra! Ladies and gentlemen, the law amending the Hunting Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act is important. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U77	Hunting law always fuels passion. I'd be honored to introduce you to this bill number 633. The need to amend the Hunting Act comes from a collective appeal to the Riigikogu on 1 December 2017, which was entitled 'Help stop the legal slaughter of waterbirds! ' and had received 2569 signatures from the Estonians. In the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, this matter has been discussed in three sessions: on 9 January, 2 April and 30 April. Representatives of the Estonian Ornithological Society, Estonian Hunters Association and the Ministry of the Environment have always been present. That's why we developed this bill. The aim of the Act is to ensure that in the future hunters who wish to keep bird hunting in Estonia have sufficient knowledge of Estonian hunting rules and good Estonian hunting practice as a prerequisite for legitimate behaviour. To this end, we are supplementing the Hunting Act with the requirement that a person who has received an Estonian hunting certificate on the basis of a valid hunting certificate issued abroad will only be issued with a small game hunting permit if he has completed the relevant hunting training. Since we are not entangled in the specific details of the training in this Chamber, we give the requirements and training capacity for these trainings and trainers, as well as the right to set up training arrangements for the Minister for the Environment, who will do so in his regulation. In order to prevent questions, I will answer three questions first. Why is the law intended to enter into force on 1 August? The reason is that the bird hunting season begins in the autumn and it would therefore make sense to apply this law already this year. Secondly, how many hunters are there in Estonia? 4000 yachts visit Estonia annually, with about 600 waterbird hunters. These 600 people should continue training (of course, it is not right to say that they should, but if we support this law, they will.) I'm sure it's a question of who's paying for it. Of course, it is also stated here that the training costs are paid by a hunter who has come to hunt for waterfowl, or the recipient of a small game hunting permit. The Committee on the Environment also made procedural decisions: to appoint Rainer Vakra (consensually), member of the Committee on the Environment as rapporteur, to propose that the draft be sent to the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading (consensually) and to propose that the first reading be closed (also consensually). The deadline for tabling amendments would be 22 May at 12 noon (which was also decided by consensus). Finally. If there is a question as to why all this is necessary at all, then I say that the existing Hunting Act contains § 36, which states very clearly that, on the basis of a valid hunting certificate issued in a foreign country, the person who receives it shall be granted a hunting certificate at his request, without having completed the hunting training and passing the hunting examination, a hunting certificate with a period of validity of up to one year within 10 days of the application. Perhaps it has been underlined in red that foreign tourists do not need to have an examination or training or can do so. In order to allow the Minister to do so in the future, the act needs to be amended. That is the main argument why we are discussing this here in the Riigikogu today. Why can't we do this right now with a ministerial decree? Because the law says it's not possible. I hope that colleagues in this Chamber will support the draft and we will see already this autumn that foreign bird-hunters behave ethically and are aware of the rules that apply to bird-hunting in Estonia. So I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U78	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U79	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I have a number of questions. I am trying to start by saying why the collective petitioners were not involved in drafting the draft, even though they have a very strong desire to do so. The second question stems from the practice of the Committee on Legal Affairs. All kinds of training is going through quite detailed discussions. This raises the question whether you were discussing in the Commission whether those who have helped to develop the draft, the Ornithological Society, the Hunters' Association, the Ministry of the Environment, have the right to begin training themselves. Who carries out the check? What were your discussions and what are the recommendations to the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U80	Thank you. First of all, the relevant draft regulation has been included in the draft law. Secondly, starting from the beginning, the assumption of your first question is not true. Of course, without ornithologists, without those who made this appeal, the bill would not have reached this hall in this form. They were involved and they were literally, I'd say, admitting that we were bringing this thing into the big hall and training these hunters. This was also one of the things they wanted to achieve, in addition to the other proposals. As for what the training will look like, it is written as the third point of the legislative amendment. Paragraph 40 is added: 'The requirements for the training and trainer in the field of hunting for the hunting of small game hunting for a person who has received a valid hunting certificate issued in a foreign country, as well as the volume and procedures for the training shall be laid down by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. ' This can be done in such a way that the training is organised in the future by the Environmental Board or by a person who has signed an administrative contract with the Ministry of the Environment, such as the Estonian Hunters' Society. These are both options we've been discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U81	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U82	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! 'Training' is a pretty serious word. Didn't you come up with a little lighter than that? What about Estonian hunters when they go to other countries? I have heard that people go to Africa and perhaps to many other parts of the world. Do they pay for training and go through things like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U83	Thank you. There are different practices in different countries. There are countries where you need to demonstrate your shooting skills, show out your weapon, there are countries where you need to show theoretical knowledge. But it is our very clear choice that it is foreign tourists who come to bird hunting that will undergo this training. In all three meetings of the Commission, we came to the conclusion that this is an ethical issue. For example, 4772 geese and 7665 ducks were shot in Estonia in 2016, with a size of 12,000 waterbirds. In Finland, just across the Gulf, 600,000 waterbirds are being hunted. I wasn't wrong with the magnitude, I've asked it over and over again, we've talked about it with ornithologists. In terms of the environment, perhaps we are not dealing with the protection of one species, but society has reacted painfully to certain photographs published by foreign tourists in social media and the media. This is precisely the different understanding of hunting ethics among foreign tourists. This is the starting point why we are discussing this in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U84	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U85	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Can you predict what the benefits of training fees would be and what the loss of income would be if hunters gave up and went hunting in a neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U86	Thank you. We also discussed this issue in the Commission. We remained in training precisely because, on the one hand, Estonia would still be able to visit the hunters, on the other hand, these hunters would behave in a law-abiding manner. This is not a profit; they literally cover the costs of this training, i.e. they pay for their own education.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U87	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U88	Good manager! Good waitress! 2600 people came out with this petition under the leadership of ornithologists. Why did you not agree with these basic demands and proposals in your committee, in particular the limit on how much can be killed a day, and you came up with such a cosmetic thing? The Italian is given ten points to sign that you have met and then slam as much as it takes! In fact, every foreigner shoots an average of 13 geese or ducks, a local hunter at best one.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U89	Thank you, Member of the Committee on the Environment. These are the numbers you received from the discussions in the Committee on the Environment. I am pleased that you, as a member of the Riigikogu, also have the opportunity to propose amendments. As far as this specific limit is concerned, such a limit existed during the Soviet era, in 1976. The very intense disputes led to the conclusion that, despite the ban and the limit, there are actually very many ways to cheat on bird hunting. If there are three people on a hunt, it can be shown that one shot and the other shot, so in practice, this maximum number per tourist really stays with ten cities. On the other hand, the most important thing is that the ornithologists also agreed that if our aim is to protect species, i.e. if too many geese or ducks are thought to be shot, then it would be necessary to take a very radical approach to this issue. As I said in the introduction, it is a question of ethics. After all, these are migratory birds, and it does not matter to the bird whether its journey ends in Finland or Estonia. In Finland, they are released per year between 400000 and 600000, and in Estonia they are released in 12000. The question is that it is the misbehaviour of people with a purely different hunting culture that we want to change. All analyses have shown that this can be done with proper training and education, not with the identification of limits that can actually be overlooked. As a whole, I do not think that there should be any standards in this Chamber that cannot be controlled in real life. The Environmental Inspectorate would not have the possibility or ability to follow every bird hunter if he shot 11 or 10 ducks. Ultimately, looking at the environment, it does not matter whether this number is 8, 9, 10 or 11 because we are not currently dealing with species protection, but with ethics.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U90	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U91	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Surely you have also talked about alternatives to how to deal with this ethical issue. At the moment, it seems to me that it is not about content, but about creating a new source of revenue for a particular target group. What worries me is that, as far as I know, it's the local cells of the Hunters' Association that are recruiting and looking for hunters, maybe they're earning from it. The question now is why it is not necessary to impose additional conditions on them in order to organise this hunting tourism, but for whom conditions are imposed, the foreign person, or foreign tourist, is mentioned. How is this practice in other countries? Isn't this still a conflict of interest? I don't understand the section you're quoting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U92	Thank you for your question. I'll try to explain it again. In some ways, the European Union can give an example of the right to drive. If you have the right to drive in Estonia, you do not have to take another test in Spain or Italy or show that you can drive. However, we have indeed seen that this is not enough in Estonia. The same idea was actually followed at the time, years ago, when the hunting law was passed. But now we have come to the conclusion, together with ornithologists, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and representatives of the Estonian Hunters Society, that it would be reasonable and necessary if these foreign tourists did not just meet the requirements imposed by the European Union or their own country, which relate to hunting skills, shooting skills, the quality of the weapon, but that we would still check whether they are aware of the rules in force at the water bodies of Estonia. For example, in Estonia, the use of lead wounds is completely prohibited in the hunting of waterbirds or, if someone is using a hunting dog, they must have a document certifying the breed and the dog must be chipd and tattooed and must not be used with perfume preparations or game sounds. There are several rules that already apply according to Estonian law. Certainly, they should always check whether they know that watermelons are not allowed to be fired from a running-engined craft or whether they know what foreign land and water rights are at all, because it is not the case that you go wherever you want and you bang where you want. According to Estonian law, no more than 200 meters closer to the building can be fired anywhere. These are the rules that need to be etched in every hunter's memory, and they also need to be checked if they know them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U93	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The question I ask is relatively practical. According to this introduction, this change affects about 600 people a year. What's it gonna look like logistically? We know the hunting season doesn't last all year. How and where will this training be provided, at the airport, at the port or where exactly? What could be the cost of such training? Most of all, I was urged to ask my colleague's argument that this training would mean a sheet of paper, which contains ten points and where to just sign it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U95	Thank you. If you mean Peeter Ernits, this good colleague is known in this Chamber as an interesting questioner. Everyone here has the right to ask what they want. Whether or not there are ten points on that sheet of paper and whether or not a person is signing can be established by a purely Ministry of the Environment regulation. I repeat, the draft or sample actually exists at this point. There is control of the legal requirements and questions of hunting ethics. We concluded in the Commission that there is no reason to lay down the rules, time and cost of training on the euro in this large hall, because the needs may change in the course of work. We really see that important changes need to be made in some area, whether it is about knowledge of birds or about Estonian legislation. It is flexible and sensible to do so by ministerial decree. I repeat, if this could have been done in today's legal space, we would not be discussing this issue here. As for the hunting season, you are very familiar. Indeed, for example, the duck hunting season runs from 20 August to 30 November and the goose hunting from 20 September to 30 November. This time is very short. Therefore, the Estonian Hunters' Society, most likely using administrative contracts, can train all those tourists who come here before they go hunting and before they get a hunting permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U96	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U97	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I'm sure you can argue about this training for a long time. The training can be done interactively before arriving in Estonia, and the examination can also be done interactively; the question is perhaps in which language. In my opinion, however, it is also a question of ethics if the person who organises hunting tourism has as much as anyone wants to kill in his own country. It is human greed that is often involved here. I would like to draw attention to this, and I would like your committee to pay attention to how to call the hunters if you want to do so, how to pass the test, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U98	Thank you. The Estonian Hunters' Society has adopted 'Good Practice of Hunting in Estonia' and there are all these points in it. As far as this training is concerned, of course, hunters are also one party here, they have not been overlooked and they cannot be overlooked. Speaking of what we are calling for more precisely and what amount should be demanded, it must be said in advance that this training cannot be done interactively, it is done on the ground. On the other hand, I stress that last year, although the Environmental Inspectorate considered bird-hunting tourism to be a very important area, no infringement was actually found. These pictures, I'm just saying for the sake of protocol, so that everyone can be understood, are actually several years ago. Indeed, a group of tourists, not even from the European Union but from a southern country, trophyed all their birds and took pictures one by one. It did indeed look appalling, ugly and unacceptable, but it can be said that, in fact, no such violations were found as early as last year. The Estonian Hunters' Society and Estonian Hunters have repeatedly confirmed that it is also in their interests to do this thing rationally and with common sense, ethically. Certainly there is also such, I would say, neighbourhood surveillance or social control, as well as in all other areas. This social concern and pressure is not just in this hall; it is not only outside this hall, but it is actually the concern of all members of the Estonian Hunters' Association. This is generally an area that, thanks to some individual tar stains, gives a bad light to the whole area, and it is certainly not of interest to anyone. That is why we believe that such training and information, in cooperation with hunters, is necessary and will help to further improve this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U99	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You referred to those pictures from a couple of years ago that looked appalling. In general, the display of trophies is relatively frequent among our own hunters, although perhaps there are no birds on these pictures, although there are different animals. But I wanted to ask what we have in Estonia so much differently than in Finland that these differences in numbers are quite amazing. Does this mean that in Finland the possibilities of hunting tourism are used to the maximum, or is it simply a difference between populations?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U101	Thank you. That's a good question. I myself asked the members of the Estonian Hunters' Association and the answer was varied. First of all, of course, if we are talking about hunters at all, there are about 16,000 in Estonia, the number of hunters around the northern neighbours is several times higher and the number of hunters there is many times higher. These are the first two points. Thirdly, the fact that there is a much more widespread hunting culture in society or that being a hunter is more widespread and the number of hunters is so many times greater that indeed these numbers do not differ in repeats, but are sometimes even cosmically incomparable. When we say that over the bay, 600,000 birds are shot and we have ten thousand, it is almost incomparable in terms of the bird population. Perhaps briefly: the number of hunters themselves, the hunting culture, which means that the maximum is taken from the hunt, and thirdly, the number of hunters is also higher and hunting tourism is clearly more common than in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U102	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U103	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! It's a question of ethics. Shouldn't we be solving this problem in a complex way? Some people are disturbed by these pictures taken by hunters. Let's keep going. Perhaps we should also make it clear to British bachelors who also go bird-hunting here, which pictures may be displayed in order to develop an understanding of what images could be put on social media when visiting Estonia at all. Otherwise, we are going to change all the laws separately, because perhaps somebody is again disturbed by a picture on social media that leaves Estonia a bad reputation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U104	Thank you. That's an interesting question. I must admit that there are many places where the persons you mentioned are not really welcome and are not allowed in. Of course, this issue has not been discussed in the Committee on the Environment, and the initiators of the draft have never discussed it, but the ethical issue is certainly not just a question of waterfowl or hunting as a whole, but ethics sends us every day in various social groups and social activities. I think the question is right, but when we are looking for a solution, we must still be guided by the principle that people want and want to behave ethically, and if they do not want to do so, we must remind them that it is reasonable and necessary. So I believe that those mentioned by you will also receive rapid training when entering certain places, how to behave on the ground and what to do and what not to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U105	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I want to congratulate you on the fact that you have managed to manage this process and to manage it in a very rational and rational manner. In Estonia, there is a tradition that some individual examples are being bullshitted and we are about to change laws and social life as a result. All the more so since this process began with false and half - false claims. I am sure that many of the signatories did not fully understand what they signed and why they signed. It is clear that training must be done, very good, to raise awareness. But has the lightning of this training been at issue? Do we really have to go through this every year when certain hunters come here from year to year, or can we, for example, set a deadline? Was it even in the debate or wasn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U106	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U107	Thank you. We discussed this in the Commission and considered it reasonable that the regulation could also set a deadline, whether two or three years, for this training not to be carried out every year. I think this approach makes sense. As regards the collection of signatures, I acknowledge those who signed them. Of course, it is always possible to write a petition one way or the other emotionally. I think the best example of hunting as a whole is that there are 500-600 bears in Estonia's forests, or bear bears, and 50-60 bears are released each year in Estonian forests. I am absolutely convinced that if you, Mr Time, were to draw up a petition and add pictures of these bears, asking those who are opposed to being shot, I would sign and support this petition. Unfortunately, in today's world, in 2018, man has taken on God's role in nature all too often, or man has decided that the reasonable number of bears in the Estonian forests is 500. The reality should be that when the number of prey is reduced, the number of animals that eat the prey is reduced. To prevent these vibrations, a person keeps it under control. So this is the role of hunters and hunters today. I think that when such petitions are drawn up, the organisers always have to think about why they're doing this. We also asked them that question, and the ornithologists' answer was positive in the sense that it is important to them that we discuss it in society and that we discuss it here, that people get into the subject, understand the question and realise that communication was also one of the greatest objectives of the collection of signatures. I believe that we will achieve this goal together; Estonian society will be smarter in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U108	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U109	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I am taking more time to speak now, because the President did not notice that I held my hand for a long time, and for some reason did not give me the floor. In response to Mr Urve: yes, ten points, you sign and the whole jam. It was what had to do with my name. But in fact, there is also confusion among hunters and ministry officials. High officials at the Ministry have said that this is the hardest group of hunters. In fact, the ministry also has the so-called hunters' very strong lobby. Why, as Chairman of the Environment Commission, have you gone along with this hunter's lobby and dragged this petition to all 2600 ornithologists who are very well acquainted with birds and have put it together?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U110	Mr Vakra, there was also a procedural question. Dear Peeter Ernits, I will not tire of explaining to you the provisions of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. When someone calls someone's name, that person has the right to object, and that is the case when negotiations are taking place. At present, the initiator answers the questions. After that, there will be negotiations. If someone calls the name of the ambassador Peter Ernits, he has the right to object. There is no such right at this stage of the draft procedure. Thank you for your attention. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U111	Thank you. Good questioner! You certainly know that we have discussed this issue concerning the hunting of waterbirds not only in the context of this law, but also in the past. The Committee on the Environment has discussed this six or seven times in the last four to five years, if I am not mistaken. You are a relatively young member of the Committee on the Environment. If you claim that making this training compulsory for all waterbird hunters was accepted with applause and flower bosses in the Estonian Hunters' Association, you are clearly misleading. It was a very big job to make them understand that it is necessary, we need to change it, it is not possible to continue the old way. I think, as the ornithologists said, one of the very important points is that these trainings will take place in all the relevant languages, i.e. Italians receive this training in Italian, etc., so that these people can really have an understanding of the Estonian legal space. As far as the content of the training is concerned, it consists of three parts, I'm going over them too. The training covers legislation governing bird hunting in Estonia, hunting safety requirements, Estonian hunting culture, hunting ethics and good hunting practice. I will continue to disagree: it is not ten points and a signature, but this training will indeed produce a result. We can check it out later. But then we will disagree on this and we can certainly ask the Minister for the Environment when he has signed this regulation, which was the result. I can promise that all of us, along with you, a good Member of the Commission, will keep a finger on this process and check what happens to this regulation. But I do believe that it would be more reasonable to entrust it to professionals, not to start drafting this regulation here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U112	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U113	Good manager! Good waitress! Can you tell me if it is already known who this training company is, who will then be able to carry out this training in several languages, or if it is a so-called state business project for some private company that is going to carry out these trainings?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U114	Thank you. The Estonian Hunters' Society is most likely to carry out these trainings. As far as different languages are concerned, the Estonian Hunters' Association still has information material in different languages for all hunters when we speak more widely than the hunting of waterbirds. If you would come, Mr. Chef, from Italy, you would receive Italian material today. As far as training is concerned, it may not, of course, be done in quite every language, to the Chinese people in Chinese, etc. English or French or a well-known language has been chosen, but the materials in the respective languages already exist. The Estonian Hunters' Society has also received funding from the Environmental Investment Centre and it was financed, if I am not mistaken, in the times of the then good minister Marko Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U115	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report, you mentioned that this problem has not occurred in the last year, but it is absolutely necessary to regulate it in the legal space. It doesn't seem like a sort of overregulation, does it? In the example of this case, it would have been possible either to supplement these materials or simply to agree with the associations that if they received the guests they might present this part more intensely and consciously. You said in advance that the Riigikogu should not discuss this regulation or the content of this training. I think that the devil is in these details, and the content of the regulation and the cost and duration of the training can at some point become one of the most important points.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U117	Thank you. I continue to believe that we can see it if the ministry doesn't do its job well and with the heart. I hope that they really understand, in essence, that if we want to change something in ethics, then first we need to introduce this ethics to people, talk about what we are talking about. It's a cornerstone when we talk about something. Secondly, I repeat why we are even in this Chamber today. The law now states very clearly that if a valid hunting certificate has already been issued abroad, training is not even possible because the law says: '... without going through hunting training and passing the hunting theory exam. " So it says black in white that no such training will be carried out. We will take this point down and reverse it, so that in the future it will only be possible to go bird hunting once this training has been completed. As far as overregulation is concerned, this is the place where you must trust the specialists in your area who will work out this regulation with the Estonian Hunters' Society and those who are hunting. There is, of course, a problem. If more than 2,500 people have signed, there is a problem, indeed, just last year no such violations were found. On the other hand, we hope that, thanks to this training, we will not have to come back to it in the next year or in the following year or in three or four years. This is indeed a forward-looking change.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U118	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This regulation is necessary to ensure that nature wins. I ask you directly: which species of birds can fly more boldly over Estonia in these months of the hunting season after the adoption of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U120	Thank you. Just as I expressed myself numerically, in Estonia, let's repeat, the cargo in 2016 was carried, this order of magnitude is currently the same as 4772 geese and 7665 ducks. If you should recommend something to the birds, they will be safe to fly over Estonia, because Estonian local hunters are not very active water-bird hunters and there are only 600 tourists. There are 4,000 hunters in Estonia, of whom only 600 are bird-hunting-oriented. Perhaps when we talk about migratory birds that have to fly halfway through the world at times, they have been safe to fly over Estonia and are safe to fly tomorrow. So have a nice flight for them!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U121	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U122	Thank you! Good waitress! I have this little question of hesitation. Right now we're discussing the same thing as I'm going to Britain with my driver's license, and before I get a car from a rental company, I'm being trained that there's left-hand traffic and maybe some other things that my country doesn't have. This is, of course, great and would be great, but I still have a question whether we should invite our neighbor to our guests in our home, in our yard, or whether we should focus on the fact that all, say, hunters and tourist organisers themselves are so well trained that we should not go over to instruct the person who has a permit from another country, which he has received legally. I still have this little question about how serious we are about training our tourist operators in licensing them. They themselves should ensure order in their own home.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U123	Thank you. I don't think they can be separated, both hunters and hunters need to be trained and controlled. I believe that if these trainings are to be carried out, the Environmental Board will also check that this really does not look like Peter Ernits has repeatedly described that someone is coming, will just sign and say that he is trained. We trust the executive power of Estonia! Surely you can't just pay attention to one foot of the stool, but you have to look at all three feet.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U124	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U125	However, I ask the question: are we not sending a message to other countries that we do not accept their hunting certificates, or can we justify this in a more milder way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U126	Thank you. I think that the fact that we do not accept their hunting certificates is not true in the sense that training takes place specifically when they come to bird hunting and want to go hunting birds. In general terms, their permit, their hunting certificate, in any case, is valid. You gave an example of Britain. This is not a question of ethics, but your example is good. From analogy we can say that we are not going to have the whole driver's test done, we are not going to check whether they know what the stop sign is, but we are really going to train everyone to understand that we have left-hand traffic and everything that comes with it. But we're not gonna talk about how to use the reverse, how to reverse the pits, or what the stop sign means. I think it's pretty accurate in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U127	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U129	I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Tarmo Kruusimäe Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U130	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Right now, at the end of this room, I learned that you can't pose with feathered game and trophy like that. However, I asked my colleague whether, let us say, hunting animals and such trophies could be posed in the context of this draft. This is precisely because so-called hunting friends have not yet protested. However, when hunters' friends start protesting, demanding that foreign and local hunters should not pose with their own trophies or send these pictures to social media, a little screaming and screaming will occur, a few thousand autographs will be collected again, and we will come here and start writing in the law that feathered game must not pose or pose with hunting animals. Let's imagine some foreigner comes here with his baby girl and he happens to be breastfeeding in a quiet place in the park, and somebody's gonna publish a picture of it on social media. What are we gonna do? If it explodes into a bigger scandal, so, oh, are we going to instruct all these people? There's an Orthodox church opposite our building, and we can see that girls in miniskirts don't go to that church. But we haven't instructed them all. In my opinion, the draft is over-regulation, all the more so as I do not understand how it is possible not to pose with a hunting bird, but with a hunting animal. Our society has become tender, our people have distanced themselves from real life, and this is actually a problem. I think that hunters, regardless of their language and culture, have a common understanding. If they still say that we in Estonia must not put these and these pictures on social media, then, I think, everyone will understand. I can safely tell you that Scottish football fans who carry a kilt tend to demonstrate after 16 beers that they don't have any underwear under a kilt. Therefore, should we now train Scottish football fans if they come to Estonia, and they pay for this training themselves, that if you have already drunk six beers in Estonia, you will not have to prove to anyone that you do not have any underwear under the shale? There is a good feeling, a European cultural space that we all understand. The fact that our society itself has become so tender and that people react to these situations in this way shows that perhaps we should train the people of Estonia instead. At the same time, hunters could say that yes, we are a special e-state with its own moral and ethical standards, which means that if you have taken a picture in Estonia that Estonian society considers to be indecent, you can be sued. I mean, we actually have the authority to do that. I understand this is a compromise, but the door is open. The following categories can come and say what they don't like and what bothers them. Yeah, I know a lot of things bother them. With a heavy heart, I'm abstaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U131	On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U132	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague, it seemed to me that he was trying to ridicule this bill and talk about how British bachelors might be posing with the local birds here. It's actually very serious. I quote Tõnu Traks, the Hunting Advisor of the Ministry of the Environment, a few sentences: 'Southern bird hunters are the hardest group of hunters, because the Hunters' Association gives out these alien hunting certificates, and in our own house there are so-called pen pals who really want all kinds of people here and who have problems all the time and who we wrestle and go to court with. There's no ethics there. It's the smell of money and that's it. ' I can also tell you, on the basis of today's negotiations and correspondence with hunters, that the statistics of hunting areas are actually classified. Repeat: classified. It is not known exactly how many local hunters and southern hunters who come here as hunters actually shoot birds. The fact that 8,000 birds shoot 600 hunters was the only way I got to: after repeated questions, which were not answered by hunters' leaders or ministry officials, I asked how many local hunters shot, and I got 4,000 answers. Since we have some 5,000 local active bird hunters, each local bird hunter shoots about one bird, but the southern brothers 13 and more if these figures are true. In fact, as Rainer Vakra repeated here, a lot more could be done, because nearly half a million birds are released in Finland, and we have only 12,000, with 15,000 in the last year. But it's a question of ethics. The ornithologists came out with petition, they're bird-discoveries who know the birds that go out and know what they're talking about. Rainer Vakra and the hunters' leaders say that there have been only a few pictures, but, for example, ornithologist Mati Kose has said that he has seen hundreds of ducks thrown under the bush with the household garbage. He really hasn't put a picture of it anywhere. I've seen pictures like that, too. It is hunting tourism. At the moment, the problem is being solved by pushing forward this one list with ten points, the southern hunters signing up and that's all the jam. The money comes naturally to a trainer, who is a hunter's company, who is interested in this business. In this regard, it is, in particular, an ethical question. I would like to remind you that the ornithologists drew up this petition, which, as we understand, was signed by 2600 so-called frivolous people or those who have allegedly been fooled (maybe to look at this list as to who they are), and therefore it is not like a serious problem. Yes, it is. There is no need to set a daily limit, it has also been ridiculed that it does not work, etc., although fish work when it comes to a group. But you don't want it because you don't need to break all the hunting law, because in that case, it gets out of control. At the moment, the Committee on the Environment, under the leadership of Rainer Vakra, has gone along with the so-called lobbying of the hunters for this category, the hunters' association and their guest hunters. I don't agree with that. Something should be regulated, but not like this, with some formal training done by the same people who invite guest hunters from the south. These guest hunters are, I recall, the hardest company among hunters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U133	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U134	Thank you for the invitation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U135	You want some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U136	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, No one denies that there is a problem like this, but I would remind you that a new one just appeared in the manifesto of 28 leading businessmen, which says, among other things, that there is clear legislative overregulation in Estonia. We have too many regulations, restrictions, regulations and regulations that prevent normal living. I totally agree with that. I strongly agree with this manifesto at all because half of it has been written off from the programme of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and I cannot disagree with it. But let us now come to this specific draft. As a half rural man and having communicated with the few remaining rural people in the area, I can tell you that they are not happy with this bill or happy with it. Those who sow fruit say that there are too many birds and that they must be slaughtered. I don't agree with that either. But there are others who say that there are a whole lot of people across Estonia, also in the area where I live, whose extra income is the provision of hunting tourism services, be it accommodation, be it catering, be it guided service, whatever. There are tens of thousands of people across Estonia to whom this is specifically a source of livelihood. We should also think about these people so we don't pull them out of the carpet. We have made rural areas often and in many regions virtually impossible anyway. Absolutely impossible! Shops are closed, schools are closed, clubs are closed, parish houses have moved farther. What do these people have to do when they're taken away from them? Nothing. And then we complain about it, as in Question Time, that there are too many children in Tartu, but yesterday we complained about the fact that there are too few children in Estonia. This is all the result of wrong political decisions and lobby groups, among other things, the lobby group is the same result of 28 leading businessmen, long-term and non-existent views. Let us now analyse this draft from this very point of view. Is it short-term or long-term? Will it save the lives of many birds who would otherwise be killed in vain, or will it destroy the livelihoods of many people on land who earn extra income from hunting tourism? I do not want to take a categorical view here and say that it is right and so it is wrong, but I call for a look at this matter a little more widely than just on the basis of what one of my acquaintances, who is engaged in hunting tourism, said that they were the birds of the five Italians' hunting community, I think they were Italians, which had been collected on this site for several days, they were not the birds that were shot by one man, and they were all in turn posing. Of course, this picture was shocking, I agree, this picture was just disgusting. But let's take a look behind the frame. We humans are dualistic creatures. We're emotional on the one hand, but we could be a little more rational on the other. In this case, it is up to us, as MEPs, to be not so emotional as rational. Let us, then, now that we have the opportunity to propose improvements, consider this draft rationally and try to make it possible for the birds to live and for the people to live as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U137	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U138	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the big idea of one ethical issue to be resolved. The first question is whether ethics can always be changed in writing. There were a number of questions in similar form in this Chamber: Do we have the opportunity to change people's behaviour and attitudes by example and language? If we feel that this method does not work, I am not convinced that this method has been tried to use, then the second option would perhaps be to go by letter to change certain standards of conduct. The next question is what alternatives are possible, which standard of behaviour could be changed by letter. The bill says it's the hunter they're trying to influence. At the same time, we know that these tourists will not fall into this area just as well, but will be working very hard to get to Estonia. My first question is: has the hunter received instructions from our Ministry of the Environment officials, ornithology association and the hunter's association that listen, something is wrong? We should think about the future. Tonight, I didn't get an answer to those questions, I admit. I've worked in a room with a passionate hunter for a few years. His descriptions of how hunting tourism was organised in Estonia, Järvamaa and Viljandi County did not give rise to confidence, but rather gave the impression that as much as possible was sought for the means to bring money to Estonia, but whether it was being tried ethically, I was not very convinced of this information. These hunters are largely members of the Hunters' Association. Members of the Hunters' Association themselves, their organisation is the developer of this draft, wishing not the Riigikogu to say what are the possible penalty rules, what are the conditions for paying for the exam, etc. For example, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we talk in very detailed terms about the examination conditions, the fine rates, the examination fees, we talk in very detailed terms about bailiffs. But then one committee says that we must not talk about this. I have a question that maybe the same agency is trying to find additional sources of service in which we, by giving these powers, cannot share. Even the Commission does not speak on this issue! It creates confusion and distrust. Moreover, when we give the mandate to the Ministry of the Environment, I do not understand why we do not have confidence in the Ministry of the Environment when we are talking, for example, about cutting volumes and the establishment of the Est-For plant, these issues are already already up in society. We will try to resolve these old issues and then we will blindly begin to take these powers from us. Perhaps I would really ask you, in the Commission, to negotiate in particular whether the organisers of hunting tourism have behaved ethically in our society. If not, what is lacking in understanding the Estonian language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U139	Thank you, Küllik's Hatter! Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U140	Honourable Vice President! Good friends! I am glad to see, first of all, that the issue of waterbird hunting is burning so much passion. Certainly one of the aims of ornithologists when they petitioned on 1 December was for society to discuss this issue. I am pleased that from the walls of the Committee on the Environment it has reached this great hall. On the other hand, all my previous speakers, all three were kind of right. I understand that the ethical issue is very complicated, everyone understands ethics in different ways, but before you start nailing someone to the wall or making up other sanctions, you still need to clarify the rules that are the Estonian hunting culture, which is Estonian hunting ethics. But some of the claims that have been made, I'd say, lies, I'm going to disprove. The draft has been drawn up purely in the Committee on the Environment with representatives of the Ministry. The Hunter's Association, believe me, is still struggling, they don't want any of the hunters to be trained on a mandatory basis and controlled by the Environmental Board. Only in the last session did we finally come to a consensus, they realised that they did not have another way, that this was a very clearly one option. As for the speech by Peeter Ernits, it must be understood that there are species of birds in Estonia that cannot be hunted, the hunting of which is prohibited. It is not a question of 15,000 waterbirds being fired today and 14,000 tomorrow, but the question is how hunters behave, how many hunters are fired, and not, as a good colleague of the IRL said, how someone takes pictures. It is not a question of taking pictures; it is a question of how much someone lets the hunt, how he behaves there, and how he preserves the Estonian nature and the environment as a whole. On the third hand, I can take down Mr. Helme's fears. There have also been those who have represented landowners in the process of drafting this bill. Their question, too, was that birds eat in the fields. I know that there is even a draft in the Committee on Rural Affairs that envisages such protective polygons, where there can also be hunts for intimidation outside hunting time. This training option is ultimately a compromise reached in several sessions of the Committee on the Environment so that life can continue on the ground, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it should be done as reasonably as possible, without the huge prohibitions and orders that the Environmental Inspectorate should subsequently be able to enforce. In my opinion, too often we pass laws in this Chamber, which we will not be able to legally control after we have done so in Estonia. This is the wrong way. Yes, I agree if we really see that we will not make it by word, as a good colleague said, and by means of training to change this situation, we will come back to this issue. But first, I'm optimistic. Secondly, all parties agreed to this training, from ornithologists to hunters' association and ministry. It's a consensual decision. In the end, however, I also recognise all those who signed this petition with bird themes. We must agree with Mr Ernits, who said that this is certainly not an easy issue that the Committee on the Environment would have overlooked, on the contrary. We have constantly pointed out the shortcomings, the possibilities are different, but we are guided by the principle that if the Ministry has the opportunity to put together a training plan under this regulation, it will be done literally on the basis of the principles that we have discussed in this Chamber today and which we discussed in the Committee on the Environment in order to raise awareness of the ethical issue and the Estonian hunting culture among all foreign hunters. It's the nature of the matter, and I don't think it's possible to do that with orders for refusals. If an Italian tourist still doesn't know what requirements we have and no one has explained it to him, he doesn't know anything about their prohibitions and orders either. This is an important, precisely this information about the Estonian hunting culture and the educational moment, which is the purpose of this draft. I am pleased that we have reached the point that the Estonian Hunters' Society also understands that this is a necessary step and is also important to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U141	Thank you, Mr Vakra. Jürgen Ligi, please, as representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I think that none of us can speak on behalf of one hundred percent of the group now, because this is such a controversial issue. But we shouldn't have any drafts dealt with in this style with references that see, someone said that we have too many regulations, which is why we must not do this thing. This is not an argument at all in the particular case. A specific case must be examined separately. We look at it this way so that, despite all these conflicting feelings and arguments, a compromise is needed in society. It seems that this compromise has been drafted, and we agree to support it. But, of course, it's just a compromise, people have very different opinions. I certainly do not represent the middle opinion of my group, let alone the Riigikogu, when I say that no life can be taken for fun. I admit that many people I respect very much, many good people do it themselves, they do it as a hobby, without any need for balance, but just shoot animals. As a rule, the hunt for migratory birds as a tourist industry is not based on my understanding that migratory birds are harming somewhere, but it is tourism, which I would call fun. But I do represent one extreme, and I am glad that this extreme has been heard a little bit. I don't want to point the finger at someone who thinks otherwise. Let's agree on this bill. I believe that society is, in fact, very disturbed by this issue too. Dead birds, these home bangings are a real social problem, and some people are one of the most disturbing everyday things ever. Let's make a deal, let's show that we understand their concerns too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U143	Thank you, Jürgen Ligi! Mr Ernits, do you have a rejoinder or a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U144	Thank you. I was mentioned a few times. But I agree that this bill is not really needed. Since these 2,600 supposedly fooled people led by ornithologists came up with this, the Committee on the Environment needed to react somehow. We really discussed this a lot. These ten points of training became something like this, because something had to come. Of course, this is not a solution, it remains formal, we have received a letter from a bird. Of course, there is no need for regulation and not too much regulation. So it's kind of an emergency, so we can say a little bit that we've done something in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U145	Thank you. I will close the negotiations of the representatives of the political groups. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 633 be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft text 633 including 22 May at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U146	Let's go to the second item. Draft Act amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and consequently amending other laws 594. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. As the representatives of the political groups do not want to open negotiations, we invite the people to the Chamber to prepare the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are doing a presence check, because a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, 79 members of the Riigikogu are present, 22 are missing. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 594. Please take a stand and vote. There are 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, no respondents or abstentions, one member of the Riigikogu did not participate. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U147	Let's go to the third item. Third reading of draft Land Improvement Act 524 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. There's no wishers. So let's go to the final vote. First of all, we do a verification of the presence, because a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft. 79 members of the Riigikogu are present, 22 are missing. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 524. Please take a stand and vote. 79 are in favour of the draft, there are no opponents or abstentions, one member of the Riigikogu did not participate. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U148	Let's go to the fourth item on the agenda. Second reading of the Estonian Central Party Group, the Estonian Reform Party Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Social Democratic Party Group, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the draft law amending the Holidays and Celebrations Act initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. For a presentation, please address the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Marko Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U149	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this is a draft that we have all collectively initiated here, which we have passed at first reading and which we have reached at second reading. On 8 May, we had a debate in preparation for a second reading and this was due to amendments or referrals to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. Two amendments were received on time. The first amendment has been tabled by the EKRE Group and concerns Easter Day 2 in order to give it the status of a public holiday. The second amendment was made by the MPs, including Andres Herkel, Igor Gräzin, Eerik-Niles Kross and Külliki Kübarsepp; their proposal was to change the day of municipal rights. These were two amendments. At a fairly early stage of the discussion of the draft, the Estonian Interpreet Association, the Estonian Composers' Association, the Estonian Artists' Association and the Estonian Music Council approached the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, and was represented on the spot by President of the Music Council Ivari Ilya. What is the problem with musicians? I have already spoken about the musicians' concerns at first reading, which is that October 1 is an international music day. Ivari Ilya's proposal was that it should still be considered once again whether it would not be possible to celebrate the day of self-governance on another day, insofar as the international music day does not receive sufficient attention. The Child Welfare Association had addressed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in a letter stating that this bill could also be converted into a national deadline for 1 June, or Child Welfare Day. The rest of the family have their own national anniversary, from mothers and fathers to grandparents, but the children are still out of their day. Although the Children's Day in Estonia has been celebrated for 30 years, it is not a national date. Following the debate, the Commission adopted decisions which, well summarised, mean sticking to the post-first reading draft. There will only be one amendment to the law: 1 October will be the day of the municipality. Reasons. With regard to the day of the rights of local authorities, the vote by the Commission revealed that this proposal is not supported, as the idea of this day should be wider than just the day of rights. As regards the introduction of other holidays or holidays, in the course of the procedure for this draft, we have not come to a situation where we would have reached a common conviction that we would have an agreement on one or the other date or on the provision of national sacred law. However, this does not mean that discussions should not continue. Certainly, there was more empathy in the Commission about Child Protection Day than about setting a national deadline. So history does not end today, the discussions will definitely continue. Taking into account all the votes, we have reached the text of the draft that we have before you. The proposal is to conclude the second reading today and send the draft to the third reading if the second reading should be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U150	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. You have at least one question. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Pomerants! I'm asking you about Easter Day's second holiday. What is your sense of the mood of the various political forces in the Commission? I understand that with this bill, it's like introducing another subject, but still. Could Estonia take this step, which would be in sync with other countries of the European Union, so that the second holiday would also be a free day as a national holiday and perhaps as a compensation, would make this Friday, which is not of such significance, a working day?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U152	Thanks! Why is this bill before you as it is? Indeed, the basis for initiating this draft was the agreement of the six political groups on the creation of local government day as a national date on 1 October. There is no such consensus on Easter in this Chamber. This is also the reason why it did not receive support. Could it ever be like this? I say I don't rule it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U153	Thank you. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U154	I'm always on the holiday side. Actually, I like it when I get some rest.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U155	I am looking at this explanatory statement here and I wanted to ask the representative of the Commission. Several colleagues here believe that the church and the state are divorced in Estonia. I don't agree with that. I wonder if you ever came up with this question that this is where the country goes back to the church with four legs and wants to nationalize the religious holiday. I think that it is not the Estonian state's business how Christians celebrate their holidays, even less to start sharing free days on behalf of Christians, etc. Didn't that moral aspect ever make you flinch?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U156	Thank you. There were no flinches in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U157	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U158	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I'd come back to the music day, though. It was also discussed in the Committee on Culture that the day of the local governments would be planned by 1 October, and I would honestly say that this was a big surprise for all of us, there were no people who would have said that this was a good idea. We also received a referral from the Music Council, and I think that this approach has, in fact, been taken rather condescendingly. The talk that music day doesn't bother anyone or that municipal day doesn't interfere with music day is not very serious. My question is this: what is the justification that it must be exactly October 1 and cannot be in March, for example, when the days of the local governments take place, so that it is somehow connected? Wasn't there any other day?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U159	All right, thanks! I disagree on the question of superiority. I think that thanks to the fact that it is municipal day on 1 October, along with the International Music Day, it is now coming to many that this is also music day. This is certainly a situation where not everyone fits into Estonia's stage. I hope that the parish elders will scrutinize their budgets and their dignified performances will also be guaranteed within the framework of local self-government day. I assume that all the political groups represented in the Riigikogu were in their right mind when signing this bill and knew what they were doing. That's what we can build on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U160	Laine Randjärv, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U161	Thank you. However, I disagree that musicians should be thrilled to be invited to perform somewhere on municipal day. They don't want them, do they? Or the talk that only now do we find out about the music day on that day is already a condescending and biased attitude. So in this sense, I don't know if it's a question, but in line with the line, I can't leave it unchecked, I really have to say that I'm upset about this attitude towards musicians who should be quite grateful if they're invited to perform somewhere that day. I think celebrating a music day is a celebration for our musicians, not a day like this when they have to do more work for someone else to have fun. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U162	Thanks! There was no question. I personally have helped to ensure that a particular orchestra can operate and exist in Virumaa. I really haven't been able to bet more than just one. Mr. Ligi, I'm sorry about that! But once again, local authorities have always contributed to helping musical groups, and some of them actually maintain them every day, so that they cannot be opposed here. There is no point in bringing this conflict here, and I am not getting involved in it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U163	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that after answering questions, there are negotiations and that all members of the Riigikogu can speak, so that opinions can be expressed. Jürgen Ligi, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U164	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! I didn't sign this bill in a perfectly healthy manner, because my feeling partly coincides with Laine Randjärv's. Partly. The calendar is actually a limited resource, but the more we write it full of national days, the more days lose special meaning. Tell me what this self-governance day could mean in real life, which prevents local governments from feeling well and getting together without fixing them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U165	Thanks! I think that the existence of this day values the daily role of local governments, helps to draw more attention to it and also to introduce to its local community what is being dealt with every day. It's an added value, not taking anything away from anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U166	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U167	Good manager! Good waitress! Explain in rural language why now the local government characters, who here in the Riigikogu are more than musicians, are climbing on the back with four legs for musicians who are less here. There's a lot of days. Wouldn't it take another day?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U168	Thanks! Eiki Nestor, our chairman, is such a good example who is always talking about the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. By the way, the deadline was not received, despite your great murmuring, no concrete proposals concerning the establishment of a municipal day on another date, in any way justifying it. The situation is that six political groups have initiated the municipal day as a national anniversary and have done so in the framework of a specific draft that is now before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U169	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U170	As I understand it, one of the concerns before the Commission was that I wanted to give the day off, but I don't know why. I mean, no excuses. In this sense, we should perhaps also turn to our neighbours, including Russia, where there are great traditions of celebrating holidays. In fact, just two years ago, or more or less two years ago, a holiday was introduced in Russia, which maybe we could take over if you didn't think of anything else. This holiday was verssiiski den truboprostnyh voisk, or the day of the pipeline forces. Make it free, it'll be festive and content. Why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U171	Thanks! I would point out that this amendment does not create any day off. The situation remains as it is. A national deadline does not in itself mean a day off. Maybe when October 1st happens to be on the weekend.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U172	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I, too, was not consciously signing this bill because it is a bit populist for me. Maybe I want to ask what makes this day different from the other 365 days. What is the cost of this bill? Obviously, there are some events in the back that are planned to be held that day, but as stated above, it actually competes with the very many other anniversaries that the municipalities have. I think they consider their birthday to be more important than municipal day, and there are many other days. In this sense, I have not felt any great pressure from the rulers to celebrate and decorate this day as extraordinary. What is your opinion? What could this day have to do with itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U174	Thank you. I've already tried to explain it to Mr. Jürgen Ligi. I think that the example of the city of Pärnu definitely involves such experienced local government figures, and the city is big enough, by the way, to maintain its orchestra as one of the local governments of Estonia, I congratulate them for this; there are not many municipalities that you can do well. How do you decorate it? I think it's still in every government's hands, people at work, there. If you're saying you don't have any cents in Pärnu for this, then... well, I'd like to see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U175	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U176	Good manager! Good waitress! Was it discussed in the committee that, if there is already a day of self-governance, 1 October or any other, then, for example, the day of the government or the day of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U177	Thanks! The simple answer is not discussed. But I didn't answer Thomas half the answer, what was the incentive? In order to establish this day, probably as many signatures have been given as the last point of yesterday's day, in the case of bird hunting, the President of Estonia has also signed it. So it has not come from my idea and my desire to be separate from the friendlyness of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U178	Toomas Kivimägi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U179	Thank you. Very respectable waitress! Of course, I am not so familiar with the details, but if there is still the urge and desire of the people to do so, of course it must be accepted. I add that I have never questioned whether the city of Pärnu has money to celebrate this celebration. I was just asking what the cost would be, because if it were set up as such, there would also be expectation and assumption that it would be celebrated. But I fully understand that it is every municipality's own business, so you can't turn it all over the country like that, but, as far as I know, I remember, October 1st is still an elderly day in addition to everything. Maybe I'm wrong, but if that's the case, there's gonna be a lot of anniversaries someday.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U180	Thanks! It really is. On 1 October Nõmme also began training service dogs in the police school or then perhaps in the police school in Estonia, and Andrus Ansip was born that day, etc. Consider how it has been possible so far that the day of the elderly and the music day, both international ones, have taken place one day. You see, interestingly, nothing bad has happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U181	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U182	Today is the second reading of this bill. My question is this: how many amendments were tabled on this draft and were there discussions on them? I'm sorry if I missed something earlier. I have heard such information that, if the bill is adopted, the city of Pärnu, a good colleague of Toomas, is one of those who wants to celebrate this day in a more festive way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U183	Thanks! You'll have all the materials available. Officially, I repeat, two amendments were tabled within the deadline. One was the EKRE proposal, which relates to the fact that the second Easter would be a public holiday; the other was from several parliamentarians; it is the rewording or renaming of the day of municipal rights. However, there are no amendments that would affect any date in a year other than 1 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U184	Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! No further questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U185	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm against it too, but my motive is connected to something else. We love to talk about the separation between the state and the church, but that is not true. Ultimately, Europe's tradition is different. Angela Merkel has said this: 'Europe's identity needs a European Constitution, and the European Constitution must be linked to Christ and God, to the extent that Europe is born of Christ and his ransom. ' So, Easter 2nd. He has absolutely no meaning outside the Bible and the Scriptures, and that is precisely what is missing from the explanatory statement. In other words, we have a pattern of how the church and the state, being united, are to some extent dangerous to the church, even if it is because the state is going to impose its will on the church. So, what happened on Easter Day 1 or 2? Consider chapter 28 of Matthew's Gospel. 'When the Sabbath had passed and began to dawn on the morning of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the second came to see Mary's grave. " From there Christ had disappeared. And when they had come out of there, behold, Jesus came to meet them, saying, Hello. '' Now, the second episode related to that day is when two disciples walk on Emmaus's road, and at one point a stranger comes to them who listens to strange men speak of Jesus being crucified. And Jesus came unto them, and Jesus came unto them. 'And speaking and arguing with them, Jesus himself drew near to them and went to them. " It's another meaning that this holiday has. And the third thing, which is actually completely missing, is that there was a number of rallyings here, the only message of this whole Easter, which I think is worth reading out more or less completely, is Matthew 28:16, etc. 11 disciples in Galilee, and there they meet Jesus, and now the content of this Easter will come. "Go therefore and make disciples of people of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. ' And finally, 'And behold, I am with you all the days until the end of the system of things! " In other words, all that is written, be honest, do not steal, love your parents, love your neighbor as yourself, try to think of your good and bad deeds, that is the message of the day. There is no other message behind this. And since this message is so important, it seems to me that there is something extremely hypocritical about presenting such a bill. In fact, the idea behind it is: let's do another red, semi-red, striped or whatever day, dissolve it in a Christian culture that is part of the history of Estonia, and try to achieve the maximum of this union between the state and the church in order to suppress the church. That is why I do not consider such a draft, and even an impudent, explanatory statement to be appropriate for voting in favour of it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U186	Thank you. There are no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The first amendment, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, is the position of the commission: to be disregarded. The second amendment, tabled by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Igor Gräzin, Eerik-Niles Kross and Külliki Kübarsepp, is the position of the leading committee: not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U187	Thank you, Mr President. I would still ask for this very good proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U188	We will vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by Mr Herkel, Mr Gräzin, Mr Kross and Mr Kübarsepp, the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. There were 11 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, 34 against, one abstention, 35 against. The amendment was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 591. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U189	The fifth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending the Collective Agreement. Monika Haukanõmme, vice-chair of the Social Affairs Committee, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U190	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiated the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the Act amending the Collective Agreement on 22 January. a and we completed our first reading on February 20th. Since it has been a long time, let me remind you very briefly about what is going on here. The proposal promotes the creation of a safe working environment and the prevention of health damage to workers, on the other hand, it is a good technical draft, which improves legal clarity and also reduces the administrative burden on employers. The need for health surveillance of workers is more clearly linked to occupational hazards; the worker must be guided by health surveillance in response to occupational risks. In the future, the employer may send the worker to the first health check for a longer period. If, according to the law currently in force, it should do so immediately in the first month, the amendment will allow it to do so within four months of taking up employment. In addition, the new regime gives workers, as well as employers, the possibility to agree on a contractual penalty and its payment if health and safety requirements are violated. Let it be said in advance that this applies to both sides of the contract, if the conditions are not met either by the employer or by the employee. In addition, the obligation for employers to notify the Labour Inspectorate of the start-up, change of occupation or establishment of a working environment council and its annual reports is abolished. Last change, employers no longer have to report all accidents at work to the Labour Inspectorate, but only cases where a person has suffered temporary incapacity for work as a result of an accident at work, a serious injury or death. This was now a very brief overview of the content of the draft and the changes that will be made. Of course, it can be said that in the case of this draft, when you read the title of the draft, everyone's initial hopes may have been high, but that is a compromise, which is, as they say, 'Spring', that if we do not get the whole exercise, we will initially make half of what has been agreed. This is a good initiative in this respect, in any case. I will also give you an overview of the progress of the procedure between the first reading and the second reading. It should be said that there were ten working days, as usual, to make the amendments, and the deadline was set for 6 March. By this time no amendments were received from political groups or members of the Riigikogu. In order to better and more meaningfully process the draft, the Commission sent a letter to the organisations involved in the preparation of the draft, asking for comments, opinions and proposals. The letter was sent to a number of target groups, and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Confederation of Trade Unions, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Association of Occupational Health Doctors submitted their written opinion on the draft. The draft was processed and prepared for second reading in the Committee on Social Affairs three times: on 20 March, which may also be called an inclusion event, on 7 and 14 May. Thus, at its first meeting on 20 March, a debate was held with stakeholders. After four opinions, representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Labour Inspectorate and TALO took part. I will give you a brief overview of what happened at this sitting, because each of the people invited also had their own position and opinion on the draft. First of all, the representative of the Estonian Association of Vocational Patients drew attention to two questions. First, why no longer have to submit data to the Labour Inspectorate and register accidents when they are called light? Perhaps minor accidents at work will no longer have to be registered. A hypothesis was also put forward: this could be linked to the mere desire to improve statistics seemingly. The second issue raised was that only such accidents at work are recorded when a person is employed under a contract of employment. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that despite the fact that minor accidents at work are no longer subject to registration at the Labour Inspectorate, the employer is obliged to register and investigate them within the institution. The results of the investigation must certainly be reported to the person involved in the accident at work. However, as regards the fact that accidents are recorded only if a person is involved in a contract of employment relationship, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that this is still the case and that no changes have been made, the same procedure will continue. The following is a brief overview of the comments and questions of the representative of the Estonian Association of Occupational Health Doctors. The first such broader issue, which was raised, was that when a draft amendment of the law was drawn up, the development plan was very important for employers to be unaware of the importance of assessing the risks to the working environment by sending a health check. Of course, the occupational medicine agency understands why this is the case, but it worried them that while everyone recognises the mistake or the danger, the bill does not make any practical changes to the law that would improve the situation. They were worried that risks would still be underestimated and that people who need health checks might not be able to get there. In addition, the association of occupational health practitioners was concerned that the law lacked legal clarity. For example, the list of occupational hazards does not include psychosocial factors, which are mostly the most dangerous at work in the world. In addition, as we know, health at work is an area that is not very much regulated nationally. There are currently not enough occupational doctors in Estonia. There is an urgent need for an analysis at national level of the need and presentation of training for occupational health doctors. We also received answers to these questions. The first issue: Work risk factors are underestimated. Indeed, this is the case, often when carrying out a risk analysis, employers do not take into account risk factors or take into account these agents, hazard agents. This is how it happens that risk assessments prepared by employers can be of very different quality and employers are struggling to organise them because they do not know exactly how to do it. It is not that we should say in law exactly how and what must be done. The solution is to raise awareness among employers rather than directly change the law. The second question: how are occupational doctors still accessible? This is based on the principle that health surveillance by an occupational doctor should aim to determine whether hazards in the workplace affect the health of the worker. If the work environment does not harm the worker's health, you do not need to see an occupational doctor, you can limit your visits to a family doctor. The list of hazards for the working environment and the fact that psychosocial factors have been excluded from it maybe they should have been listed separately among other factors, we have received the answer that this list, which is set out in the law, is not definitive. The list is specifically based on the list of risk factors set out in the European Union Directive. This is an open list, where 'other hazard or type of work' has been added at the end of everything, and where appropriate, a psychosocial hazard can also be placed there. With regard to the future of occupational health doctors and the order of training, the draft does not address this issue. However, the Ministry of Social Affairs acknowledged that this is an important issue, it is under discussion and it is very likely that several points will be returned to the Riigikogu within the framework of the next draft. The Confederation of Employers is generally satisfied with the draft, they find that it is a step in the right direction, but they stressed that, of course, every effort must be made to reduce accidents at work. Accidents cannot be quite avoided and completely avoided, but can be reduced through innovation, people's education and awareness. Of course, employers were also satisfied that there was a possibility of imposing contractual penalties, as this would enable accidents and diseases to be prevented. It is important to stress here that this fine cannot and must in no way be a measure to sanction or punish the contractor. The fine is very clearly regulated and will be agreed before the contract of employment is concluded. It is also recorded in the contract of employment, i.e. it is written. It also includes what the employer has to do to minimise and reduce accidents at work, but also the responsibility of the contractor. This is a preventive measure of which both are aware. If one or the other party infringes it, it is possible to impose a contractual penalty. Why is there confidence that the employer cannot simply use it to punish the contractor? This is because this fine cannot be deducted. For example, if the builder went to the object, but did not put the helmet on himself was careless and said, for example, that it was uncomfortable, then in the case of such a violation, you must first talk to the person, warn him, and you cannot deduct money from the salary, but go to court. It's already a pretty complicated process, and then you have to prove that all the previous steps have been done. In addition to the above, the Confederation of Employers pointed out that changes in occupational safety and health regulations must also take into account the changed situation in the labour market and the resulting flexible employment relationships, while distinguishing between the workplace and the working time under the control of the employer and the job and time outside its control. This concerns a great many of these flexible forms of work. Again, it must be said that this draft does not deal with these issues, but the Ministry of Social Affairs acknowledged that this is a very important issue that needs more precise regulation. It's on their desk, and they're coming to us again, but there's no plan for such a change in the current bill. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation, as was expected and expected, is not satisfied with the imposition of this contractual penalty requirement. They say that this is not the right thing, but they realize, on the other hand, that in some cases it may be justified. In addition, the Confederation of Trade Unions paid attention to the issue of temporary agency workers and to the need for employers to be able to carry out risk analyses more flexibly and to create an "e-environment." The answers were that the temporary agency staff would not be covered by this draft, but the creation of such a more convenient e-environment for risk analysis would be dealt with. There is an information system for working life in preparation or development, which should give the employer the opportunity to carry out risk analysis more flexibly in the future. This new information system should then summarise the area of health and safety at work and help employers to comply more easily and easily. In the same way, a representative of the TALO, or the CSO, stated that there are many different forms of work today, that not all employment relationships are based on an employment contract, and that in fact much more attention should be paid to the so-called flexible and different employment relationships. The following amendments, i.e. this proposal and this concern, do not concern this draft, will once again come to this issue. The Labour Inspectorate expressed its satisfaction with the draft and the possibility that they could impose more fines and that a large number of provisions would be abolished, which would be redundant and lead to too much administrative burden. As I said, no amendments were tabled, except for one on your desk today, which has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. At first, it seemed to us that this was a purely linguistic change, but during the debate we found out that this was not only a linguistic change but also a change of substance. In § 131 (10), the words "the hazard factor for the working environment' are replaced by the words "the nature of the work'. This is due to the clarification of the medical examination requirements in the case of manual handling of difficulties. Since manual handling of difficulties is a mode of work rather than a direct occupational hazard, it is correct to use the word pair 'type of work' rather than 'work environment hazard'. It is also important to note that the amendment clarifies the concept of the draft but does not alter the substantive requirements for the organisation of health surveillance. What procedural decisions and proposals were made? The Social Affairs Committee decided at its next meeting, held on 7 May, to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 16 May. The Commission proposed to conclude the second reading of the draft. On 14 May, the Commission approved the draft second-reading procedural documents, and on 7 May the Commission decided that, if the second reading of the draft is completed today, now and here, we propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu's plenary session for the third reading by the 30th day of May, and that it be put to the final vote. All the decisions were consensual. I would ask you to support this one amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Commission, for a thorough review. No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U193	I'm opening negotiations. No callers. Let us examine the amendments. One amendment has been tabled, it is from the Committee on Social Affairs and it has been fully taken into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 581. Second reading complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U194	We will go to agenda item 6, which is the second reading of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Bill amending the Health Insurance Act 602. Maris Lauri, member of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will review draft 602 on changes in the management of the sickness fund after the completion of the first reading. The first reading of the draft was on 4 April, when the deadline for amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 18 April. There were no amendments from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups by this deadline. The draft was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on 7 and 14 May. On 7 May, it was a hearing and a substantive debate. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and interest groups were present and submitted their views. The Ministry of Social Affairs was represented by Heli Paluste, Head of the Health Network of the Health System Development Department, Ülle Jordan, Head Specialist of the Health System Development Department, and Jaanus Põldmaa, Legal Adviser to the Legal Department. Mr Põldmaa explained the amendment tabled by the Ministry. According to the original version, the draft law as a whole was intended to enter into force in s. 1 September, but the Ministry consulted the Health Insurance Fund in the meantime and therefore wishes the amendment to the Health Insurance Act to enter into force earlier, i.e. on 1 July. The reason is that this amendment would lead to the Commission's work on the list of health services earlier. Why is that necessary? The establishment of a list of health care services by the Health Insurance Fund for the following year, the examination of requests for its amendment will start before 1 September, which is the original date of the draft's entry into force. However, it would be necessary for this committee to start working earlier. Three interest groups had submitted their written opinion on the draft opinion and explained their views at the meeting. The Association of Estonian Hospitals, represented at the meeting by the Chairman of the Board, Urmas Sule, does not support a reduction in the number of members of the Board of Health Insurance Fund. It considers that the current composition of the Council is balanced, as representatives of the state, employers and insured are equally represented. At the same time, the Hospital Association supports the establishment of a Commission. The Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions, represented at the meeting by Lawyer Nelli Loomets, proposed to increase the size of the council to eight members so that employees' representatives would be two, just as there are employers' representatives. The NGO Child Welfare Association, represented at the meeting by the board member Tõnu Poopuu, considers that no changes should be made to the board and important social groups such as children and older people should maintain their representation. At the meeting of the Commission, representatives of the interest groups presented their views, after which questions and explanations were asked, including by the Ministry of Social Affairs. On the question of whether the reduction of the Council's membership would lead to an acceleration in the decision-making process, to greater transparency and to a reduction in the influence of stakeholders, the representative of the Hospital Association replied that he did not think it would be. He pointed out that participation in the work of the Council has so far been poor, including the remaining representatives that have not been the most active. I am here as a representative of the Commission in this case, but I am also a member of the Council of the Health Insurance Fund and I would like to say that I personally cannot fully agree with this position, but that is why. Jaanus Põldmaa, representative of the Ministry, explained that the aim was to establish a committee such as the Committee on Medicinal Products, which had worked well so far, for the list of health services. This committee provides input to both the board and the Council of the Health Insurance Fund, and the Council will certainly review the Commission's opinion, the whole package of amendments. I also recall that this committee is significantly higher than the current representation of the parties in the Council. So there will certainly be a significant improvement in the representation of stakeholders in the setting-up of the Commission. As regards the participation of the health sector in the Council, the health sector is made up of a large number of actors and it has always been a question of why one or the other party is represented in the Council and some are not. Ülle Jordan of the Ministry added that, at the time the draft was drawn up, both the Confederation of Employers and the Confederation of Trade Unions supported a reduction in the number of members of the Council. As regards the equal representation of employers and trade unions, the Employers' Association is currently appointing five members to the Board of the Health Insurance Fund and one member to the Confederation of Trade Unions. The draft was based on the principles of setting up an unemployment fund. The Confederation of Trade Unions is one of five representatives of patients. To the question of whether patients and hospitals should be represented in the Board of Health Insurance, Heli Paliste of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that the aim was not to remove patients from the Board as an interest group, but to avoid conflicts of interest. As far as representation is concerned, hospitals are unlikely to represent all stakeholders in the health sector, and this has also been brought to the attention of family doctors. In this case, we can say that some of the service providers are represented in the Council and there is not. At the same time, if you want all the service providers' organisations at the table, the current Council should do much more. The chairwoman of the Commission pointed out that the Association of Estonian Pensioners has been involved, but they have not responded in writing and have not delivered an opinion. As a result, they did not attend the Commission meeting. A representative of the Ministry indicated that the powers conferred on the Council by law do not require the representation of different age groups in the Council. The debate also indicated that the Chamber of People with Disabilities has not itself proposed to include its representative in the Council, although it represents people of very different ages and patients who are most exposed to health services and more complex cases. It was also indicated that there is no viable organisation representing patients in Estonia. The opinion was also expressed that according to the new law, the representative of the Riigikogu is the chairman of the commission carrying out the task of state budget control and the representative of the social committee is no longer present in the council. As before, I would like to point out that the inclusion of a representative of the National Audit Committee in the Council is justified by the desire that a representative of the opposition be represented there. We have usually had a representative of the opposition as the leader of this control committee. In addition, this committee is likely to be dealing with people who are strong on the budget. Following the Commission's discussion, the only amendment proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs was voted on. Everyone was in favour of it. Procedural decisions were also taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 16 May, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, when the second reading is completed, to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a third reading by 30 May. At its meeting on 14 May, the draft procedural documents were approved. The representative of the IRL, Tiina Kangro, did not take part in the vote on the committee, justifying that the Riigikogu should be represented in the Council with the Chair or the Chair of the Social Committee. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U196	Thank you, good waitress. There's a question for you too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Association of Estonian Hospitals has asked not to adopt the draft law as such, and you also discussed this reasoning in your review. Did the Commission reach any compromise with the IRIS-H, or did the Commission disagree with the IRIS-H?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U198	Thank you! The views remained different. They put forward their position and explained it, but the discussion was a little wider. The Association of Hospitals also raised the issue that different organisations have used such a technique that if they have not been admitted to the Health Insurance Fund Board as a representative of patients, they have become a representative of employers. So the Health Insurance Board and the Hospitals Association as employers' representatives also had this discussion up. Let's just say that, according to my personal impression, the representative of the Hospitals Association could not convincingly point out why they should be in the Council. They've been one of the representatives, and I'm not sure if they've always been there, maybe someone else has been there. There was no clear understanding of this, and there were differing views. It was also pointed out that the Hospital Association was not the representative of all doctors. For example, the association of family doctors certainly wanted to be represented. There was a discussion place, and the views were different. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U199	Krista Aru, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did the committee also have a discussion about whether the representation of the Riigikogu in the Board of Health Insurance by means of a bill is sufficient? Is the proposed option of having one of our representatives there sufficient? Did the Commission discuss this issue a little more broadly?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U201	Thank you! The question of exactly what exactly the Health Insurance Board should be has not been discussed at any meeting of the Commission. This offer.7 members. have been accepted. When the trade unions proposed that there should be eight members, it was heard, but there was no discussion. As I mentioned, a member of the committee, Tiina Kangro, raised the question at committee meetings that she felt that the Riigikogu should be represented on the Council by the Social Affairs Committee, its Chairman or a member. It was pointed out both during the first reading and this time that the government coalition found in its discussions that the opposition should also be represented on the Health Insurance Fund Board. In order to ensure this, they considered that this representative should be the chairman of the Committee on State Budget Control, as this position has traditionally been held by the opposition in contrast to that of the Committee on Social Affairs. That was the reason. We have not discussed this, but it must certainly be understood that when every person is united, the Council gets bigger and, finally, the question arises: what are we going to reduce in the first place? So that's a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U202	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U203	Good manager! Good waitress! Did the Commission also discuss this option, which will happen if no members of the Riigikogu enter the new council of the Health Insurance Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U204	Thank you for your question. No, it wasn't discussed. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U205	Thank you. Good waitress, there are no more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. From the Group of the Helir-Valdor Seeder Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U206	Ladies and gentlemen, Since the draft under discussion is a very important draft because the Health Insurance Fund Board has a very important role to play in shaping and implementing Estonian health policy, the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association of the Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Amending Act 602, to take time off and discuss more, so that we can get the composition of a council that is optimal and good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U207	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U208	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, In the council of the Health Insurance Fund, I have held two positions: once as a minister and now as a representative of the Riigikogu. And I am the representative of the Riigikogu precisely from the opposition side. The Health Insurance Board is a very large council. The truth is, I don't think there have been any times where all Members would have been present at the hearing. There have been repeated situations where there has been a problem with meeting the quorum: people have been sought out so that the quorum still meets and a Council meeting can take place. This has been the case because the Council is very large, which is why the Members' responsibilities are dissipated. My point is that there have always been Members in this large council who are very passive. They may be there, but they don't talk, you don't speak, you don't even notice them there. The others are very active again. It depends very much on people. I am convinced that the managing body of each organisation must be flexible enough, large enough and small enough. There are too many 15 members, the Council must be smaller in order to work more effectively. When we are told about the representation of the various parties, particularly the medical authorities, we are reminded that the Health Insurance Board is allocating money to them, which is why their interest is very clear. I dare say that in the Health Insurance Board, medical workers' representatives have often expressed their interests clearly. They will be able to demonstrate their interests in the future through consultative committees: first, through the Health Services List Commission and, secondly, through the already established Commission, which is involved in setting up strategies for the Health Insurance Fund. So great opportunities for participation have been created for different organisations. I understand that the question is whether the Riigikogu must also be represented in the Board of the Health Insurance Fund. In the original version of the bill, before it reached the government, there was no representation of the Riigikogu at all. The coalition found that the representative of the Riigikogu must be there and that he could be oppositionist. I also think it is a good approach that, once it has been decided that the Riigikogu will be represented in the Council, it will be the representative of the opposition. You know very well that committee chairs are not usually oppositionists. So I see this bill now being held back, not as a time for debate, but as a blackmail within the coalition. I'm sorry, that's what it looks like. It's some kind of mindless, incomprehensible approach to me. This braking is not convincing, I have not heard any substantive or profound arguments. So please, let us be reasonable and resolve this situation quickly. I would like to remind you that I am losing my position in the Health Insurance Board because of this change. I dare say it, and nevertheless I find the bill to be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U209	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. One amendment to the draft has been received from the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of Bill 602, but we have received a proposal from the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft. We have to vote through this. Let's prepare the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Party's Fatherland and Res Publica to interrupt the second reading of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Amending Act 602. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and 16 against, with 0 abstentions. The second reading is interrupted and the deadline for amendments is 10 days.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U210	We are going to agenda item 7: First reading of the Radiological Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the General Part of the Environmental Code Act and the Act amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work 623. For a presentation please, Minister of the Environment, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Ministry of the Environment has prepared a draft law amending the Radiation Act, the General Part of the Environmental Code and the Health and Safety at Work Act, which aims to transpose into Estonian law the Basic Radiation Safety Standards Directive 2013/59/Euratom. The deadline for transposition of the directive was 6 February 2018, which, as we know, has already passed. As a result of the Directive, the draft clarifies requirements in radiation-related areas such as medicine, activities related to natural sources, management of radioactive waste, emergency management and communication. It also lays down requirements concerning the radon content of the workplace air. These requirements are set out in the Decree of the Minister for the Environment, the draft of which is in Annex 1 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. The regulation requires the measurement of the radon content of air at the workplaces in municipalities with an increased risk of radon located on the basement floor or on the first floor if there is no basement floor. There are currently 38 municipalities with an increased risk of radon in Estonia, in whose territory the requirement will apply to employers. If the measurement indicates that the reference level established by the Regulation, i.e. the level for which long-term exceedance is not recommended, has been exceeded, the use of constructional remedial measures should be considered or the length of the worker's stay in the workplace should be reduced so that their risk of lung cancer is not high. As a new issue, the law introduces regulation for the use of X-ray equipment for purposes other than medical purposes. Such procedures must also ensure that radiation safety requirements are complied with. For example, when taking images to detect hidden objects for security reasons, care must be taken to ensure that both the maker and the person from whom the X - ray is taken are not exposed too much. We're talking about a situation where a person is being photographed to determine if there are hidden objects inside him. As a change based on national needs, the application for and issuing of radiation licences will be carried out through the Environmental Decision Information System Eagle, which will make the process quicker and easier for the applicant. As you can see, the greatest impact of the law would be precisely the measurement of radon levels at workplaces. Let me make it clear that radon is a breakdown product of uranium. There is some uranium in Estonian soil and rock. And as a result of the gaseous state, uranium moves freely in the soil, can reach the atmosphere, and can also penetrate buildings. When there are cracks in the floors of the building, the radon begins to infiltrate into the rooms and therefore it is necessary to monitor how much it may be contained in the interior air of the building. The question certainly arises as to how many employers are affected by the obligation to measure radon. As I said, we are talking about employers in 38 Estonian municipalities. These municipalities include Tallinn, Tartu, Narva and Kohtla-Järve, but Pärnu is not. The list includes all major Estonian cities. The exact number of employers cannot be stated, as we are talking about work rooms located either on the first floor, if there is no basement floor, or on the basement floor. I would also say, just in case, that the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs and the Human Resources Management Association, as well as the companies offering radon measurement services, have been consulted on this draft regulation. In summary, the future law specifies the requirements in the field of radiation in such a way that all risks, including those arising from natural radiation, are taken into account in the protection of human health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U212	Thank you, Minister. There's a question for you too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U213	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! There is also talk of cosmonauts: measures to protect the cosmonauts will be coordinated with the Environmental Board. It is also said that a spacecraft is a manned vehicle operating more than 100 km above sea level. When is the plan to send Estonian people to space, and if it is not planned in the near future, perhaps these points in § 971 should not be enforced in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U214	Thank you. This is a transposition into Estonian law of the European Union directive and it is also necessary to transpose those points of the directive that concern activities that we do not intend to develop in the near future. But we have the right to share, and in some European countries the question of a spaceship is perhaps quite topical. I can assure you that, as far as I know, the Estonian Government has no plans to send anyone to space in the near future, and therefore no specific provision is initially applied to any employer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U215	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U216	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Let's get a little closer. As I understand it, we are not sending anyone into space, but why have we been jogging for five years with the transposition of this directive? The Directive was already adopted on 5 December 2013 and should have been in force at least on 6 February this year. However, we transposed Directive 2014/87 by supplementing the radiation law last year. This current, much earlier Directive 2013/59 has not been welded onto it. Why have we been jogging for five years, though, yes, there is no plan to go into space?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U217	Thank you. Indeed, the Directive was adopted in 2013 and first studies were launched in 2013 to identify where we have problems with natural radiation, where radon levels are more precisely higher. Maybe we could have acted faster. A cross-ministerial working group was established in 2016. In order to transpose this directive, it was necessary to carry out studies and determine which local government employers were affected by these requirements. As you can see, this list is quite long, so the impact of the new regulation will be great. By taking over, we will now be late by a few months if the Riigikogu supports this draft. Overall, it is planned in the European Union that, in essence, within five years, it will be done. In recent months, during my term of office, there has been a debate about how employers are being monitored. For a long time, there have been differences of opinion between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment as to the role of the Labour Inspectorate in supervision. That is why the transfer of the bill has been delayed in recent months.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U218	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U219	Thank you, Minister. I can't finish listening to you, so I'm gonna ask you right now, that's your thing. Why do you bring in texts called "Atmosphere Air Protection"? That's the next bill. The atmosphere is the air around the Earth, and you're talking about protecting the atmosphere. And we sometimes have an important national issue on the agenda. I hope the board will write it down. Is there any way to adjust such tautological combinations during the procedure if I propose to make the title of the law correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U220	Thank you. First of all, it is very regrettable that you cannot wait for the debate on such an important law. I would point out that this is the next item on the agenda. It is very important that you also attend this debate. However, I intend to respond to you immediately, during the treatment of the radiation law. With the support of the government, the Ministry will bring before you draft amendments to the law. And if we want to change any law, we will refer to the title of the current law: we say that we want to amend that law. If the Riigikogu proposes to make the name of the law more reasonable, easier, easier for people to understand, then as a representative of the government, I certainly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U221	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Here's a very long list of areas at high risk of radon. As you also mentioned in your presentation, most of Estonia's large cities are among them. How can people expect this bill to improve? A lot of houses have been built a long time ago. You said the first floors could have a radon effect. New houses can be placed under conditions, but what do people in old houses have to think about this list?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U223	When measurements of radon levels in air are carried out and some measures are found to be necessary, one of the easiest means of action is additional, stronger ventilation or the addition of some insulation material to the floor. As we were saying, radon can infiltrate the room from floor cracks. This is particularly threatening when the land is frozen elsewhere and the land under the building is not frozen. Then there's a danger that it's soaking in the air right that way. It's about workrooms, but basically it can get into all the rooms that are against the surface. Once this risk has been identified, measures can be taken and subsequently follow-up measurements can be carried out to check whether the measures have helped. And if there is no other option, there is one possibility that simply workers will no longer be in these rooms or spend less hours there, so that they will not overall be exposed to excessive exposure to such air.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U224	Good Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Mälberg, Member of the Chair, for the presentation of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U225	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, and Reelika Runnel, adviser to the Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Marko Lelov, lawyer at the Legal Department of the Ministry of Health and Safety, were invited to the meeting of the Environment Committee on 7 May. First of all, the Minister introduced us to this bill. I am not going to rephrase its contents here; the Minister has already done so thoroughly on this platform. Following an introductory presentation by the Minister, the Commission had a round of questions and answers which focused mainly on the radon question: who should measure its content and how much impact it will have on businesses. As the round of questions and answers became clear, it is difficult to say now how many businesses will be affected. It is estimated that most Estonian companies will have to make this measurement. The risk of radon is only one third of the local governments of Estonia, but these municipalities are the largest in Estonia, Harjumaa, Tartu County and most companies are located in these areas. All companies with workspaces on either the basement or the first floor should take these measurements. Nor can I tell you today what the cost of a single company could be. On the basis of preliminary estimates, this fee could amount to around EUR 60. We also learned that five private companies are currently involved in these measurements, as well as the radiation department of the Environmental Board, which offers it as a paid service. It can be assumed that there will be more service providers, as there will probably be a lot of subscribers. It also became clear that the Environmental Board would be created as a result of this Directive and that this cost could amount to EUR 30000 per year. At its meeting on 7 May, the Committee on the Environment took the following decisions: to appoint Meelis Mälberg, Member of the Committee, as rapporteur for draft 623, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading by 16 May, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 noon on 23 May 2018. I would point out that the time for tabling amendments is slightly shorter than usual. The goal is that we can still make it before the big summer to process this bill. All decisions were taken by consensus by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U226	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I want to reduce my ignorance. Are schools and kindergartens subject to similar conditions? Is radon content to be measured in order to improve the situation if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U228	Thank you, good questioner! Not with quite the same content, but a bit of an analogous question also sounded in the Commission. And specifically, should this be measured in the living quarters as well? In response, we received an interpretation of the law that if it is a job, the measurement should be carried out. Since there are jobs in schools and kindergartens, it must also be done in schools and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U229	Good waitress, no more questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. No callers. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 623. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting draft amendments to draft 623 at 12 noon on 23 May this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U230	The next item is No 8: First reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation please, Minister of the Environment, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U231	Honourable manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since we have already discussed this point a bit during the previous item, I will take this opportunity to say in response to Urve Tiidu that this was not directly mentioned in the Commission, but there is a requirement for the child institution to measure radon content in the indoor air in certain places since 2011. But now I'm coming to the bill to amend the law on atmospheric air protection. On Jürgen Ligi's question, I looked at Wikipedia and it has indeed been said that the atmosphere, or atmosphere, is a gas layer surrounding the earth, dominated by nitrogen and oxygen. And there's this nice sentence: 'Air' is usually said about the part of the atmosphere that living organisms use directly for photosynthesis and breathing, but this term is also used to generalise the atmosphere's gas pool. " So it's probably the point of considering whether you really need to change the title of the law. The Committee on the Environment can discuss this. In general, I certainly support simpler, clearer, more understandable law titles. The purpose of the specific draft is to transpose into Estonian law another directive of the European Parliament and of the Council since 2016: Directive 2016/2284/EU on the reduction of emissions of certain air pollutants by countries. The deadline for transposition of this Directive is 1 July inclusive. The Directive imposes obligations on Member States to reduce emissions of air pollutants by 2020 and 2030 concerning five pollutants: sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particularly fine particles, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds. To make it easier to understand, I also mention the magnitudes of how much emissions must be reduced by 2020. These percentages are given in 2005 and are as follows: sulphur dioxide, 32%, nitrogen oxide, 18%, non-methane volatile organic compounds, 10%, especially fine particles, 15%, ammonia, only 1%. At the same time, we have a problem with ammonia. If other air pollutants show that we are achieving both the 2020 and 2030 targets without taking further action, as these amounts are already decreasing, ammonia will increase. So there is a need for further measures in this respect. The area where there are major sources of ammonia emissions is, of course, agriculture, where production is growing. Now, specifically, to the substance of the draft. The targets for reducing these air pollutants are set out in a government regulation and the draft government regulation is set out in an annex to the draft law explanatory memorandum. In order to achieve the objectives set, the Member States of the European Union must draw up a national programme to reduce emissions of certain air pollutants. The programme includes emission reduction measures to be introduced in all relevant sectors, be it agriculture, industry, energy, transport, household. The law currently in force sets out the essence of the programme, but the Directive lays down more precise requirements for the content of the programme in the Member States, which makes it necessary to clarify the law. So far, the content of the programme has been largely a national decision. As a new paragraph, the draft law provides for the possibility for the State to use flexibility measures to comply with emission reduction commitments. For example, if, due to exceptionally cold winters, a country is unable to meet its emission reduction commitments in a few years, emissions can be reported as a three-year average. The time limits for submitting the programme and the requirements for reviewing its implementation are also included in the Act. The first programme, approved by the Minister for the Environment by a decree, must be submitted to the European Commission by 1 April of the following year and must be reviewed at least every four years from the first submission. In summary, these amendments set out more detailed requirements for the content of the programme and the reports on its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U232	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U233	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The adoption of this law has a strong impact on micro-farmers, i.e. those with fewer than 10 employees and a turnover of up to EUR 2 million. However, the explanatory memorandum states that it is not known how many such companies there are in Estonia. But I think we know how many micro-farms we have. What's to look into? Secondly, how does this draft have a positive impact on micro-farms?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U234	Thank you. I agree with you that we obviously have a pretty good overview of existing farms, at least those who have applied for one or the other. But we will specify for the second reading the number of these companies. As I said earlier, it is really ammonia that is the problem, because the increase in agricultural production also leads to an increase in ammonia emissions. And now we have a duty to adopt a programme that sets out measures how we will reduce it. But the real question is whether these measures are cost-effective. It is very possible that, once we have signed this programme, we will have to negotiate further with the European Commission whether there are any measures that are sufficiently cost-effective and enable the target to be met. In the same way, if we do not meet the objective, we will be faced with infringement proceedings, but in the other way, these requirements must be proportionate. For example, the question is whether the common agricultural policy can support such companies in making additional investments in order to reduce ammonia emissions. This will soon become clear by the time the programme is adopted, we will also have a clear picture in this regard. But anyway, here's the question. There is not yet a good answer which will help small businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U235	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U236	Yes, it is not yet clear, but we want to adopt this draft as a law. The problem, however, concerns not only micro-farms, but also small ones with up to 50 employees and a turnover of up to 10 million. Most Estonian farmers are now looking forward to our hall to understand what the new law means to them. What does that mean anyway? I would like a specific answer on how we will otherwise adopt this law if we do not even know it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U237	Thank you. As I explained, a specific legislative amendment clarifies the requirements for an acceptable programme. And once the program's in place, it's like a two-speed. In the same way, these legislative changes do not have an effect in this sense, so we simply specify these requirements. The objective of reducing emissions of pollutants must be met either way, but we are now specifying the requirements for the programme, because the directive specifically states what this national programme must look like. Previously, the content was not determined and the countries wrote different things into these programmes. It was now decided in the European Union that common requirements would be laid down on how this programme should be structured, which it should contain. That's what this bill is all about. And the next step is to decide how we meet these goals. This is not directly the content of this legislative amendment, either way or we must achieve these objectives. It has been said that the most real thing is to cover the existing lagoons to reduce ammonia emissions, i.e. to make them closed off. This is a very expensive activity and farmers say that they do not have money for such an investment. They are asking where these resources will come from. During the programming process, it must be discussed whether we may have any other options in the current situation where our agriculture is clearly in a growth phase. In a different period, this problem might solve itself, but right now our agriculture is on the growth trend, and rather we see an increase in production. Perhaps other solutions will be found. Perhaps there will be an opportunity to pay investment support to these companies in the framework of agricultural subsidies, or we will be able to negotiate further with the European Union how we can meet this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U238	Good Minister, there is at least one question for you. Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You indicated in your reply that farmers may not have the money that will ever be required of them to implement this programme and that all kinds of investment grants and other European Union funds will be considered. At the moment, the decision on the conditions and principles for funding the next budget period of the European Union is at a rather final or important stage. The projects are already out. Has it been mentioned in any way that the common agricultural policy should cover the possible costs associated with the transposition of this directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U240	Thank you. Discussions on the next funding period or budget period are certainly at an important stage, but only in the initial phase, not in the final phase. Certainly these discussions are ongoing, and a number of countries have already expressed their views at those meetings where I am attending, particularly through the mouth of my environmental ministers, that more European Union funds should be allocated to climate policy measures. I understand it's like a more universal desire. Of course, this is not yet an official position, but the representatives of the countries will speak at the meetings on this issue. In this context, I think that there will certainly be a debate, which will still be supported by the grant, and this type of action will probably also be an issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U241	No further questions for you. Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Valeri Korb, Member of the Committee on the Environment, for a presentation by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U242	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu examined the draft at its meeting on Monday, 7 May 2018. The meeting was chaired by the chairman of our committee, Mr Rainer Vakra, and attended by Peeter Ernits, Valeri Korb, Andres Metsoja, Meelis Mälberg, Elle Kaur, Head of Adviser-Secretariat, and Vivi Older, Adviser. Our colleagues Terje Trei and Kalle Palling were absent. A few lines from the protocol might be read out, but I don't think there's any point in repeating what the Minister was talking about. What I want to say is that Riina Marušchak, the chief specialist of the Environment Department for ambient air, was invited to the meeting of the Commission, and her answers are perhaps interesting, which is why I would like to talk about them in this Chamber as well. Rainer Vakra asked what would change in Estonia for these five pollutants, according to this draft. The answer of the Chief Specialist in the Department of External Air was that, with regard to the programme we are talking about here, measures are being developed to achieve the objectives set out in the Directive. Mr Vakra asked for clarification on the basis of which the objectives had been set. The answer was that the established reduction rates are based on the figures for the base year 2005. Rainer Vakra was still curious about the punitive measures if we were unable to meet our goals. Answer: then the European Commission will start infringement proceedings. And if anything happens, we have to start a procedure to make a difference. We also had another question that sounded in this House today and to which the Minister has already answered. That was the question of where we're gonna get the money we need. The answer was that we are taking the first steps with this money, which is in the budget of the Environmental Investment Centre. I was interested in where the most polluted air in Estonia was. The answer was that it depends on a specific indicator. And I call on all of you, colleagues, to see the Internet. There is a very good system in Estonia, there are nine places where all the sources that we are talking about in this programme are recorded. Everyone's gonna be able to watch it. Everything will change in an hour. The committee decided to appoint Valeri Korb, member of the Environment Committee (consensus), to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on 16.05.2018 (consensus), to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed (consensus) and to set the deadline for amendments at 12 noon on 23 May (also by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-16_U243	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. No callers. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 624. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft amendments, including 23 May at 12 noon. With this, we have exhausted today's agenda. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.05 p.m.
