ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the first working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. It's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. No one wants to hand over any drafts or enquiries, so we'll go to the presence check. 65 members of the Riigikogu are present, 36 members are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. We have an item on the agenda, which is an important discussion of the national issue 'Transfer of Russian-language kindergartens and schools to education in Estonian'. Let me briefly outline what this procedure will look like. First is the speech (up to 10 minutes), then the questions and answers (up to 10 minutes) by Mrs Ladõnskaja-Kubits, a member of the Isamaa Group. The next presentation is by Hannes Metsa, Director of Ida-Virumaa Vocational Education Centre (up to 20 minutes), then there are questions and answers (up to 20 minutes). The presentation of Mart Rannut (up to 20 minutes) by Estonian linguist and Doctor of Philosophy at the University of Tartu College of Narva follows, then there are questions and answers (up to 20 minutes). For information, a member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two questions to any rapporteur. After that, we will open negotiations where representatives of the political groups will first be able to speak and then members of the Riigikogu will be able to speak. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. Viktoria, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U3	Honourable Riigikogu, guests, people who are interested and experts in the field follow us through the media! Honourable Estonian society! The topic of today's key national issue is 'Transfer of Russian-language kindergartens and schools to Estonian-language learning'. This is a theme that plays like an old record in our political life for quite a long time, so long that almost every person in society is becoming an expert in this field. The Isamaa Group has decided to raise this issue as a matter of national importance, because it is nothing less. Since we have heard a lot of experts over the years on this subject, have seen data, have read studies and opinions, and have followed up on debates, I am going to take on a political aspect today, even more specifically, the aspect of statesmanship. It's time to tell us where we really are. A common education system. It is clear that there is no party in this Parliament who would deny that we are going to the Estonian education system. Many politicians have taken up this issue before the elections, as confirmed by the Prime Minister in his interview. This can also be felt when the media is not around and the political debate is taking place behind closed doors. At the same time, there is strong political competition to try to show that some are more patriotic than others. That's how you get the sharps between you and me. But let's take it down. It is clear that Estonia is moving towards a common education system in Estonian. I'm not getting into details right now. But what is the sign of statesmanship? Bring out the truth, do it even if not everyone likes it, tell the truth, because lies cannot lead society for long. Still, they do not always reveal the truth. They do things differently. For example, instead of telling the truth, it is easier to get into opposition and start demanding what has not been done by itself, and forget that there were reasons why they did not do so, or to talk to the Estonian audience about a story and hold a different line in the Russian media. It takes courage, courage and courage to say something to the Russian auditorium (I now place myself in the place of another party for a moment): we, being the government department and the prime minister party, support the education system in the Estonian language. Dear Minister of Education, I admit I had high expectations of Mailis Reps. A few years ago, we worked in a committee and I saw that he was an indisputable expert in the field of education. I respect him. Given the electorate of his party and his position as minister, I thought that this minister could and can find words to speak openly about problematic places and pains in Estonian society in relation to this subject, and to do so equally openly in the Russian community. However, this did not happen. As I understand the last answers, this will not happen before the elections. For me, of course, the philosophical question is, which is more important, whether the elections or the portfolio that you have in your hands, which gives you the opportunity right now to solve something important in Estonian society. I am in the middle of the problem: I think it is much harder for me to stand before you today and talk about this subject than any other person in this Chamber. I am Estonian Russian and I know what a Russian-language school is. I graduated from the Baltic Sea gymnasium in Lasnamägi. I know what these people's fears and pains are, because when I read those words right now, not just numbers, data and arguments run through my head, but the faces of real people, the faces of my teachers. That is why I may be able to talk about details and nuances, but also about the people of Russian schools, who are also our people. At the same time, as a representative of the Riigikogu, I am in the advisory chamber of the state language, and I dare to say that as Vice-Chairman of the Fatherland, I also understand Estonians, I understand how important and justified this topic has become for Estonian society. I have these people's possible reactions running through my head, painful and well-founded. In this sense, I feel perfectly that my message must be just honest. And now this message. Good Estonians and just as good Estonian Russians! Maybe not everyone likes it. The subject is the so-called Russian kindergartens and schools, which suddenly and powerfully emerged again before the elections. It is good that this topic was raised, and it is bad that it happened again through the confrontation. I want this issue resolved calmly so that people are not hurt. Believe me, that's how it's gonna be! Firstly, it is assumed that if the issue of Russian schools is raised, the reason for this will be the forthcoming elections. That is not the whole truth, but I agree that the elections can ask the people for a mandate for important changes. During the autopsy on this topic, some target groups will be attracted to topics and, of course, also enjoyable views. The subject is very important, but both sides are allergic to it. There are many reasons for this, but the main thing that this issue will ultimately lead to is confrontation. Some politicians do want it, but I do not want it, because confrontation may bring political dividends, but at the same time divide society, which is no longer a question of linguistics, but a security risk. Second. What is the human and fundamental purpose of both sides? Provide a good education for your children, guarantee them a happy and successful future. And what are the fears of both sides? They're similar. Estonians fear the fate of the Estonian language, which is understandable; the Russians fear the loss of their child's identity, in part because of the loss of their mother tongue, which is also understandable. If you deal with fears and understand them, not amplify them, you might be able to move on. Three. What don't politicians usually talk about? It is not said to the Russian community that the argumented debate at the level of the Ministry of Education shows that the so-called Russian school as a parallel education system in Estonia does not last because of many aspects: economic reasons, lack of people and materials, and because there is clear pressure in Estonian society towards a unified Estonian education system. Now let's see what politicians don't tell the Estonians. This is an embarrassing and painful truth, but in the Republic of Estonia it has happened that there are not enough teachers for even 60 versus 40 systems. Perhaps so far, several so-called Russian schools still have a village of Potemkin, i.e. whispering to recognise the problem. Even for the current system, more tens, tens, and tens of teachers are needed immediately. Fourthly, the nuances of the situation are intriguing. As long as politicians argue with the big slogans, both sides are looking for solutions. Very many Russian children already go to Estonian school and do so without big slogans. It is also true that not every Estonian agrees that there are suddenly many Russian-speaking children coming to a child's school or kindergarten. This nuance, too, is something that is not spoken of in public, but it is these nuances that cause defiance when contrasting slogans are pulled open again. I'm not psychic, but I'm gonna tell you a little bit. I stress that this is not my position, and certainly this is not the position of the Fatherland either, I just predict how these things will go. I predict that, regardless of whether politicians are actively arguing on this issue or not at all, the result will be exactly the same in the future under consideration. What is being reached could be a compromise. There will be an Estonian-language education system in Estonia, while several schools with strong Russian slopes will remain in the capital. Of course, their graduates also need to speak Estonian freely, such as the graduates of Tallinn's French Lyceum, Tallinn's German Gymnasium and Tallinn's English College speak Estonian freely. Some strong school with a Russian slope will remain in Ida-Virumaa. If politicians set this subject up, it will happen more quickly if they leave it alone, it will happen a little later, but the result will be roughly the same, because it is an option that, given all the pragmatic, emotional, historical and national circumstances, allows for more or less agreement at present. Troublesome places. I am convinced that the political understanding in this Chamber is quite similar. As I said at the beginning, we are moving towards the education system in Estonian. We might be arguing about the details. For example, how long will the transition take, should this be done according to a uniform transition schedule or rather in certain cities faster and slower in others? The term'single school' also comes into play. What's that? Is it an Estonian school where a Russian child comes to, or is it a school that is Russian and which we are trying to make in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U4	Good waitress, your time is up. Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U5	No, I'm waiting for questions and maybe I'll use the answer time to continue with my text.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U6	Thank you. You really do have questions. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U7	Thank you. Dear waitress, I share the thoughts you have made. I think there is a problem today, but if we had made certain decisions 20 to 25 years ago, the situation would be different. We are actually seeing a parallel society where, first, there are essentially different cultural spaces, social spaces. If we come to economic level, we will see today that people living in the Russian information space are not competitive on the labour market because they simply do not speak Estonian. You stopped at schools for a while. My question is more about kindergarten. There's always a question of where to start. I would like to know from you how you will see whether we should pay attention to kindergartens when providing education in Estonian. I think that's the way it should be. I'm sure you'd expect a vision on this subject, based on the so-called kindergarten level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U8	Thank you very much for this question. I'm sure I'll come to that. I would stress that today we also gave the Estonian society an understanding that our goal is the full transition of Russian-language kindergartens and schools to Estonian-language learning. But before I answer your question, I'm gonna finish my speech so that my message is complete. I was talking about troubled places and what we could argue about. I was talking about whether this transition must be done according to a uniform timetable or rather in certain cities faster and slower in others. The term'single school' also comes into play. The most difficult question, of course, is the question of teachers. First, the teaching profession should once again become sufficiently valued for young people to want to become teachers. I'm not just talking about Russian school teachers right now, I'm talking about general. Raising wages alone may not be enough for the teaching profession to be valued. Maybe we should see what else we can do for teachers to improve their well-being. The teachers currently employed in Russian schools should be considered separately. What happens to them, and what role do we find in society for them? Perhaps the creation of a new system should not necessarily lead them to fail to implement. Last one. Recently, so-called keywords and slogans have appeared in politics. It is believed that if they are used skillfully, they will find a pain point that will open the brain capsule of one voter or another. Such words include 'patriotism', 'loyalty', 'protection of Estonian', and some others. I say, however, that it is not the greatest patriot who will use the keywords you like in a machine, but the one who will see the content and unpleasant risks in the future and will tell you how to avoid them and try to find an agreement. Integration and learning the language begin with respect for the other party and his fears. My recommendations to statesmen and wives are as follows: Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to play with fears, but to respect the fears of our constituents. The Estonian Russians must be given the assurance that even in Estonian school a child does not lose his identity, does not alienate his mother or father and his ancestors' roots. For this purpose, Estonian Russians in Estonian schools could, for example, offer good Russian language lessons as native language classes and deeper Russian literature and culture education as a elective. Teachers must be given access to the education system. Most importantly, Estonians must be given the assurance that Estonian language will be preserved throughout the ages. All the time! To keep it that way, you must also notice the forest behind the trees. The topic of Russian schools is an object of debate, but the Estonian language has far greater challenges in the world. One could also direct some of our political steam there and wonder if we can develop good teaching methods for those who are just coming into society and who do not have a familiar Slavic background. Will the Estonian language develop as a scientific language when pressured by science...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U9	Good waitress, I'll cut you off for a minute. Is your call still long? Now is the time for questions and answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U10	Yeah, I'm almost done. Will modern smart devices and machines start speaking in Estonian in the future? The linguistic forest is far more ancient than the political slogan. We need to talk about all this calmly and firmly and move forward. Finally, I wanted to say that politicians have to deal with strategic decisions that take society forward. In this case, this decision is a single Estonian-language education system. We are a parliamentary state and, as I said at the beginning, it seems to me that we have no dispute over the main direction. The parliamentary state gives a guide to the ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Education, to work through details on which different parties may take different positions and offer their proposals. I would like the next minister to have the courage, honesty and statesmanship to do what Parliament agrees and to do so with goodwill and heart. Because if we treat this issue as a war, we get losers, but if we do complicated things with a benevolent and open heart, then we get more winners, and the winners are the children of Estonia. I'm sorry I took so much extra time! I just wanted to tell you so much. Now for kindergartens. Yeah, there were a lot of different opinions here too, there were statistics, there were data. Speaking from my experience, I think it is possible to talk about my experience here too, I am not afraid to talk about my original fears, which, like many other Russian parents, were the main ones in fear of losing a child's identity. But I'm telling you, the main goal was for my daughter to be able to speak in both languages on an equally good level. Perhaps, under no circumstances did I want her to lose her knowledge of Russian, but I wanted her to achieve English proficiency. In order to achieve this goal, it is important to start communicating early in another language. In that case, the child does not sense that he or she is studying or translating, but simply accepts another language. At the same time, in order to prevent a child from losing his or her native language, he or she must be able to use his or her mother tongue extensively, whether it is book reading, Russian theatre or board games with family members. If the child attends an Estonian-language kindergarten, it is also important that the parents' genuine interest in Estonian culture is understood as meaning that communicating in Estonian is not an obligation, it is a pleasure. My daughter and I used to go to both a song party and a flagging. Both the Sipsik and Lotte have become important to the child. Starting early with the third language is also my wish and my child's independent desire, but Pushkin has also remained ours. I was born in Russia, my child was born in Estonia. Estonia is my child's country. It is clear that the knowledge of the Estonian language is important for his future. I want him to feel like a natural part of this society. This feeling can be obtained by using the Estonian language at native level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U11	Jürgen Ligi, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U12	Thank you, good manager. I'd like to know if we can ask the waitress any questions. He gave two speeches, neither of them actually responded to the topic announced, which was the transition to the Estonian language. We'd like to ask about it, and we'd also like to ask why he's running anonymously to everyone else. What exactly does he mean by that? This is actually a debate, it's an allocated time, but here, twice in a row, there's some text that doesn't directly relate to this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U13	I can answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U14	It was a procedural question. I agree with you on something, Mr. Ligi. Let's try to stay in the frame that the procedure gives us. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U15	Thank you. I must say yes, it was a rather unsuccessful start on such a serious issue. We should still respect the floor of this House and the rules that have been laid down and give us the opportunity to ask. Clearly, the style of speech was too dramatic for my taste. I would have liked to have been concrete, among other things, to have wanted a concrete response to what has still changed in the IRL over the year. Last year, when the Reform Party proposed to move to a single school and to study in Estonian, the IRL members very keenly and unambiguously attacked this idea, they called it silly, sloppy and whatever. Now you're talking about the remote like you've been supporting it for a lifetime. Maybe you'll use that last minute or 30 seconds to answer that particular question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U16	Excuse me, before you answer, I say that, because of the procedural question that has been asked, I will extend the time for answering questions by three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U17	I'm sorry! I guess I don't have that much political experience, I didn't count on my speech taking so much time. But my message certainly wasn't too dramatic, so I see these things and that's how I stand up for them. It is certainly not true that the Fatherland has somehow changed its position. We have been talking about the transition all along, we are standing up for it, and we have said what we are supporting, and we have said with relative certainty today. If I may say that I have only been in politics for three years, you have been in politics much longer, and for much longer, your party has also had the opportunity to see these nuances and details. So the current attack is quite questionable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U18	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We live in 2018, which means that people born in independent Estonia have become adults and very many of them have also obtained higher education. However, we have a language problem in the air. I'm totally asking for your personal opinion. Where was the mistake made? What is the problem, and what should have been done differently in the nineties, for example? In a situation where the language law has actually been in force for 30 years, the ability to speak Estonian is problematic, to say the least.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U20	Yeah, the problem is serious, but I think history is history. We should now deal with what the future holds for us. Perhaps if we do not take the risks into account at the moment, we do not take into account where the points of pain are, after all, this issue will also become problematic in the future. So I would rather focus on the fact that I think we have a more or less coherent political understanding of this subject. Now you could gather yourself together, send this message openly to both Estonian and Russian audiences and focus on how to do it correctly, in the right direction, so that the damage to Estonian society as well as to specific people who are a natural part of Estonian society is minimal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U21	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U22	Thank you. Just to prove what the previous speakers said: in 2017, when the Reform Party raised the issue of a single Estonian kindergarten, Priit Sibul said that the Reform Party went seriously into the crack of the idea of Estonian kindergartens. But it's very nice that we're in the same boat now. Instead, my question is that you argued that the Centre Party also supports the idea of transition to a single kindergarten, you said that we are all in agreement here. On what basis did you claim it? We have asked the same question several times from the Minister of Education and the Prime Minister, because their activities in Tallinn prove that, on the contrary, they are making exceptions to Russian-speaking schools. I have the impression that, unfortunately, the Centre Party wants to keep Russian children in parallel society and does not want to offer them equal opportunities in education.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U23	You basically had two questions. The first question was about a specific article. Since I read this article and I know the Secretary-General of our party, I dare say that this issue has always been important to the Fatherland, and that is a matter of principle for us. But there's just a question of how to deal with it. I certainly do not agree that this debate could develop into some sort of object of debate that creates alienation or opposition. Maybe that's what the message was about. We somehow felt that you rather did not take into account the nuances that should be taken into account in this debate. But on this second question, you know, that's probably why my speech seemed so dramatic to your colleague. One thing is what you see and hear in the media and in the political speeches, and the other is what they say when there are no cameras. Secondly, it is also important to analyse what is the message in the Russian auditorium and what is in the Estonian auditorium. I have a lot of questions for the Estonian political parties whether they are getting together and talking openly to the Russian community. That is why I also spoke in my speech about the Minister for Education and mentioned that in an interview the Prime Minister said the same thing that I was now referring to. I was primarily based on the position of Prime Minister, which has remained in the Estonian media.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U24	Thanks to the waitress! I'm finishing the round of questions. I apologize to those who have not been able to ask their question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U25	I'm sorry too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U26	But I understand Urmas Kruus has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In my opinion, this should be discussed in the Bureau. Time was limited and given. What happened now was, in my opinion, not an accident, but a sort of maliciousness. I also come from the one who was the first to ask, the honorable Sven Sester. We should not treat the ambassadors in such a way that there is no debate. We should set a precedent or know that next time a rapporteur uses such a strategy, the same will be done. In my opinion, this should be discussed so that such things do not happen. We have had the custom in this Chamber that, in the case of answers with no time limit, it is also possible to report the message of the missed call to the Chamber, but when it is very clearly a time limit, such things should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U28	Yeah, I agree with you on something. To be honest, as manager, I also asked the waitress if she wanted more time for the presentation, and she didn't want it. Unfortunately, this has not turned out to be the most solid thing right now. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U29	I think it is important to mention here that I call on the Bureau to also call on the members of the Reform Party to order. In my 15-year practice here in Parliament, I have also noted that the Reform Party has so-called played some of its games. Looks like it just went on to the questions. Be sure to call them to order. The time they've been here has made them cold and incomprehensiblely eloquent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U30	Mr. Ceder, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U31	Thank you. I do have a procedural question for the board. Today we have only one item on the agenda, namely the same debate on the transition of Russian-language kindergartens and schools to education in Estonian as a matter of national importance. Typically, there are 30 minutes to ask these questions, even though there have been four presentations. For what reasons did the Bureau decide to give only 10 minutes or 8 minutes to answer the questions, which is an unusually short time in a situation where there are three rapporteurs? This does not allow many people to ask questions. What kind of consideration was it that you proposed such a solution to the big hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U32	Thank you for your question. It was claimed to be your request. All right, let's go. Hannes Metsa, Director of Ida-Virumaa Vocational Education Centre, whose presentation lasts up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On this subject, which you have raised today, we will deal with every day and answer questions that are extremely complex. Ida-Virumaa Vocational Education Centre is the largest school in Estonia in Ida-Virumaa, assembled from its predecessors, which was 11. There were three schools in Narva, Sillamäe and Jõhvi. In 2016, it was decided that these schools could be run in a unified manner, and this decision was also implemented. Today it can be said that this decision was right, already because it would stop competing and create new opportunities for students in Ida-Virumaa to acquire a specialty. Yes, there are problems in Ida-Virumaa. When we talk about 30 years ago the birth rate in Ida-Virumaa was 2,500-3000 children a year, the birth rate in 16 years has been 1050-1100 children. This also means that the number of schools is optimised and the opportunity to study in Ida-Virumaa is available to all children there. In Ida-Virumaa Vocational Education Centre, 2350 students study. Half of them have come after our middle school, half have come after our high school. If you look at what we are all talking about here today, Estonian-language education in Ida-Virumaa, the very simple answer is that of these 2350 there are 207 students studying in Estonian, the rest are students studying in Russian. Yes, we also teach them Estonian by means of study programmes and curricula, but within 5 to 6 credits. They learn Estonian as well as Estonian as a professional language. But we can say that the learner group that is studying today cannot learn in Estonian. If we want students in our school to be able to study in Estonian, this education must start earlier, because after primary school or high school, we will not be able to bring the student to such a level that he can understand all things in Estonian and learn all things in that language. After high school, students usually choose specializations that also allow them to get a job. Yeah, we teach all the students in Russian. If you look at it more broadly, we also teach students who have lost their jobs, who have changed jobs or want to have an additional specialty. We can say that in one year of study, we have nearly 5,000 students who will receive a new specialty. Very many specialties in Ida-Virumaa are such that a person learns it in Russian and when he goes to work, he also works in a Russian-speaking environment. In other words, if you teach him an Estonian language that he can only use in a local government or shop, then the learner himself tells him why. Very many companies employ Russian-speaking students when they have very good professional skills. Estonian or English will be more in the course of work if needed. But I repeat: there are a lot of companies in Ida-Virumaa, also belonging to the Estonian state, where the working language is Russian. There are 180 teachers in our faculty. Of these, we can say 140 are free to give lessons in Russian, the rest in two languages. If we also look at where they have been educated, we can say that from Vladivostok to Minsk and from Sevastopol to Arkhangelski. This faculty that we have will always receive additions, but it is clear that these teachers will not teach in Estonian or in two languages. Entrepreneurs, as I said, are interested in professional skills. Often entrepreneurs themselves ask why more professional lessons are not given, why they speak Estonian. We can say that the environment is very much Russian in Ida-Virumaa. I, too, usually conduct the school management meeting in Estonian, but if it is necessary to deliver a message quickly and effectively, I do so in Russian, then I do not need to talk twice. Our student is actually very well aware that Estonian is needed. Very good results are achieved if we are able to send our student's internship outside of Ida-Virumaa: Olustverre, Kuressaare, Pärnu, Võru. If she gets into the Estonian language environment, her Estonian language will improve, and it is usually possible to exchange certain sentences from work and study in Estonian with her. But he'll come back home and speak Russian. It would be very helpful if Ida-Virumaa could speak more in Estonian or communicate with Estonian people. To provide vocational education in Estonian, it is important that the learner who comes to us knows the language. We can say that when we teach Estonian, we share it poorly, on average, and well. If we now ask if we could teach a specialty or any part of it in Estonian to those who speak Estonian well, it is not really true. A student who has been in Russian since first grade or kindergarten must start working very hard to learn Estonian as well. If this motivation is not present at the workplace, knowledge and speaking of the Estonian language will generally remain very weak. There is a very serious problem with professional teachers. When you teach builders, cooks, information technology specialists, welders, there are usually people who come from industry, they speak Russian and they do it relatively well, but we have to start working today so that in the future we have teachers who can do this work in two languages. Today we will make sure that two languages are spoken in one lab: in the home language or in the native language, and also in the Estonian language supporting the profession. Finding teachers who would like to come to Ida-Virumaa is a relatively complex and very long-lasting process because it is a very big change and challenge for people. Working in another environment is difficult. We look at these three communities: Narva, Sillamäe and Jõhvi. They're a little different. Today we can say that Estonian-language education is only in Jõhvi. Neither in Sillamäe nor in Narva can we teach in Estonian because there are no students. It is also important to think about the new trend that has arisen this year, that since there are jobs in Tallinn, many parents are trying to bring their children to Tallinn and to find a job there. The problem of jobs also exists in Ida-Virumaa. Yeah, we can say that about 5,000 people study every year and they get a specialty, but they do it in Russian. Only 200 of them do so in Estonian. Yes, we have one group in Viru Prison, we also teach specialty in Viru Prison and there is also one Estonian group, seven students, the rest are Russian. Let's see what changes the situation. This would change if the person who came to study understood Estonian when he came to study. It's probably gonna take 10, 15, maybe 20 years. If we were to do what other countries have used to teach people one year's language and to test their social skills after coming to study, then perhaps this would produce results. If in our education system everyone has a clear vision of how Estonian is taught, either as a second or as a third language, it should be clear and understandable for everyone. I can tell you, having worked in Ida-Virumaa since 2014: there are no people who do not want to learn Estonian. The only thing is that they're going to go to training, we do a lot of free training, go home and talk Russian, they don't have anyone to talk to in Estonian. It would also help if we could train teachers who can teach in two languages. We have them, and their classes are very effective. Consequently, we can say that today the Vocational Education Centre of Ida-Virumaa is practically a school teaching in Russian and we want to change, but it is a time-consuming process. This also requires that the students who come to us are motivated to study in Estonian. The third thing is that the need to use Estonian, especially in Ida-Virumaa, would grow. I think it's gonna take time. In 15 years' time, there would be 200 Russian-speaking and 5,000 Estonian-speaking learners at the Vocational Education Centre in Ida-Virumaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U34	Thank you, Mr. Mets! You have questions too. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, good to hear your report. It's the numbers that make you think about it. You said you had over 2,300 children and 207 of them study in Estonian. I think it's pretty thoughtful. The question is, as you yourself said, that there should be a prerequisite for obtaining Estonian earlier. If it has not been acquired, then there will be automatic follow-up at school later. But I'll draw attention to the teachers. If a teacher can't teach, it's hard for a student to learn. I have a question for you, considering regional specificity. In Ida-Virumaa, the so-called density of the population in other languages is considerably higher than in the rest of Estonia. As head of your educational establishment, what efforts are you making to raise the level of Estonian language in your teachers? Do you have any tools for this, and if so, what have you done? Are there any national programmes or other options?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U36	Today only one thing can be said: every year our teachers can learn Estonian at the expense of both the Estonian state and our school. Teachers and other staff in the school can learn this, because all those who work in the school must understand the Estonian language. It ends with an exam, so we're still taking the exam. We could say that a lot of A's are going to turn into B. But he learns the language at the level that he can talk to me, but he can't give an Estonian lesson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U37	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I would rather take this opportunity, which was not given to the previous speaker: I express my opinion on this report. Despite all our respect for Viktoria, I say that we have come to discuss a very important, very sensitive, very emotional subject, but no one talks about solutions, everyone appears with slogans and expresses emotions and talks about a little child talk. I'm sure I thank you for this presentation because you're the practitioner, you're talking about what you see every day, you're talking about who you work with. I'd rather ask why, 27 years ago, no one thought about how many alumni must come, I don't know, from Tallinn University or the University of Tartu to ensure the pool of teachers in our schools, kindergartens...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U39	I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we also have the procedural arrangements for negotiations, and you can then talk. Now is the time for questions and answers. Thank you. Please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U40	It would be very good if we had a place where we could take teachers into practice and work with them. Today, we buy professional teachers from entrepreneurs, we have no choice. Because if the builder, the welder, the CNC-ping operator is not a teacher, we will have this job done by the company or we will have a specialist from the company and take this hour or we will train our employees in the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U41	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U42	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. But how do you comment, for example, on a sign that's on the doorway? The school on which the sign is on the door is the Russian School of Stone Oil. Here's the sign: "Russian school. Opening hours: 8.00 to 16.00. " This is the sign I received from my comrades from Kiviõli, and there was a letter saying that Kiviõli at Russian School was a mess, no one knew anything, and no one could tell when anything was going to happen because the school lacked a director and everything was a barbarian. In practice, where Russian and Estonian children are confused, there can be language practice and everything else, friendships and contacts are created, and this is the kind of association that has been taken away. What do you think of him as a practitioner? I'm a practitioner, I'm a teacher. What do you think if the Russian school door has a sign that the school is closed at four o'clock and there is no joint action or action?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U43	You have to ask the city of Kiviõli. But that's funny, of course. Our school doors are open all the time. Since we are a public school, we have always made it possible to do it in our own school, so it is a theatre, a dance or going to a gym. Since we have a dormitory, we also accommodate cadets who work in the police or prison. Of course, it is possible to go to the gym, to use our other options, which give free time content. There is one other thing we do: we offer our students porridge in the morning. By the way, it's very popular.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U44	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this presentation. There is little time to ask a question, but I say that from the first part of your speech there was a finding or a statement that it is not reasonable to teach subjects and specializations in Estonian because local entrepreneurs do not want these Estonian-speaking graduates. This is, I think, very short-sighted again, also at national level, because it limits these people on the labour market, in principle it is impossible for them to go to work in either Paide, Võrumaa or Tallinn, where Estonian language skills are required. But that's my question. You rightly said that you need students who already speak Estonian when they come to the vocational school. Perhaps the problem begins after kindergarten, primary school, primary school, where this is the preparation period. Do you acknowledge or admit the fact that much has been said at national level in the last 20 years, but little has been done to enable these students to speak Estonian already at upper secondary school or vocational school?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U46	That makes a lot of sense, because if we have a student who speaks Russian, we'll teach him a specialty and act as the curriculum prescribes it. The student now has a hold on whether he or she studies more speciality or is involved in language, or whether he or she is also regulated by the state how we teach Estonian besides primary school or high school. Yes, it is sad that our students do not speak Estonian. I have told my students that if they do not speak Estonian but Russian, it is very difficult to get a job. It can also be said to Estonians that if they come to work in Ida-Virumaa and do not speak Russian, it is very difficult to get a job.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U47	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U48	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your excellent and interesting presentation. Let's talk language. After all, language skills are achieved over the years and are primarily embedded in the language environment. But my question to you is: what would attract Estonian-language kindergarten teachers and school teachers to Ida-Virumaa so that children could learn the right Estonian early?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U49	I think there's a lot of opportunities. One of them is what took place this summer. After all, 25,000 people from all over Estonia came to see 'Kremli Nightingale'. I was involved in this myself because our students helped do this show on the side of hairdressers and other staff. Very many people ended up in Narva and Ida-Virumaa for the first time since Estonia regained independence. So we need to give more opportunity to see that Narva is Estonia. They asked me when I applied to work in Ida-Virumaa, why do I do it? I will say this question in this Chamber, which sounded very bad: why am I going to work in Russia? I have always replied that, as far as I know, the Pada River is not a border river, but the Narva River is a border river today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U50	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U51	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, and thank you for your presentation. It's always good to listen to a man who knows practically things. I have this question now. It is natural that students' language skills will improve in particular in the language environment. You also said that it was very good for some students to get an internship in Paide, Tartu or somewhere else, say Pärnu. What, though, about the percentage of all students who have the opportunity? I'll still fit the second question here. I understand you've been in East Virus since 2014. During this time, has anything changed among students about Estonian? It's not a long time, but it's in that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U52	Thank you. I'll start from the back. Yes, it is. If we used to say 'dobroje utro', now let's say 'good morning'. As a rule, if you talk to a student calmly, he'll understand. Yeah, she'll never understand if she's done some kind of trouble, like smoking in the wrong place, she doesn't understand, but I'm gonna translate it right now. It can be said that the attitude towards Estonian is positive. I have this experience. But what was the first question? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Kui palju neid on?'???]] If we look at the overall volume, 10 to 15% of the students could go. I am not talking about Tartu or Tallinn; I am talking about places where it is impossible to speak Russian, precisely such specific, tidy Estonian cities and villages.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In my opinion, a pretty big problem begins with basic schools in Ida-Virumaa. Students graduating from comprehensive school do not speak enough Estonian. As we know, basic schools are in municipal survival. What is the problem here and what is the solution? Are there oppositions or at least indifferences from school leaders or local government leaders? Is it not possible to change this situation flexibly and painlessly? We are, in fact, very soon to look at developments in teacher training, in the face of a situation where the age of Russian-speaking teachers in particular is relatively high. At one point, there may be a situation where teachers and students no longer understand each other. How do we solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U54	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U55	I think it's comfort. I mean, if I'm having a development conversation with my teacher, he's proud to say that he's been teaching for 35 years, and if I say that we're going to have a conversation in Estonian now, he's gonna say that, oh-oh-oh, this Estonian language is still bad for me, I'm gonna have to learn. I'll tell him then that you've been a teacher for 35 years, tell me how you motivate a student to learn languages if you've neglected it yourself in 35 years. There's no answer. I think the new generation of teachers will take away this old comfort. It's good to teach like you've always taught. Saveljev's physics textbook is always a Saveljev textbook, but there are different, more valuable and interesting textbooks.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U56	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I realized that learning Estonian at your school is probably meant as more for the future and for communication in the Estonian environment; schoolwork is still in Russian. How long do you think this Russian lesson will last? The problem is both children and teachers. Perhaps the problem of children will be solved even more quickly than the problem of teachers, who are not able to teach in Estonian. What do you think? How long will this situation continue in your school? Is there any hope that your school will become an Estonian-language school?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U58	I think so. Because those learners who today come from the environment where they have learned Estonian know it. Yes, we teach Estonian to our students 150 or 130 hours. That's not enough. But we teach Russian just as long as we have Russian students. When Estonian-speaking learners arrive, we are also able to teach in Estonian. I think, as I have already said, that this order of magnitude is 10 to 20 years, then we will be able to speak more in Estonian than in Russian. If we want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U59	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your specific and clear view. I'm going back to my internship options now. Do all these internships in this Estonian-language, beautifully organized village or town have to look for the school itself? Is there state support here, or is it just a school problem right now? Second, the same kind of hobby education. Are and how effectively you are able to use the opportunities of hobby groups for language learning now? Are the circle instructors basically Russian-speaking, and is this possibility actually going to be a little thin in school?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U61	We can say that if there is a person who is carrying this thing, he will be Estonian or Russian-speaking, then we will let him do it in that language. We can also shake our heads because, yes, we do have an Estonian cafe for employees, but for students we do not have such Estonian circles. We have the circles where Estonians go and do their own things. There are sports clubs where all children go together, but there is also a pure Russian theatre circle. What's to deny, they went to the Kingissepa Theatre Festival and took the lead, so they're doing their job with their hearts. At the same time, the attributes of our country were always going around, so they're our kind, because they're Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U62	Jürgen Ligi, please! I'm sorry! A microphone for Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U63	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U64	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We're pretty embarrassed here. One party has raised the issue and formulated it and called it waiters, I guess I'm not wrong about my partymates. You may not be quite the answer, but our problem is that we did not actually learn anything about the plan of the Fatherland how this transition to Estonian education could take place. We know that the chairman of their group has said that this plan, that there is some kind of Estonian-language education even in kindergarten, is a lost idea. Vocational education is certainly not the easiest subject, nor is it the focus here. You're from vocational education. Then try to formulate your party's plan for the transition to education in Estonian for members of the Riigikogu. What's the status now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U65	I'm sorry! As regards internships, the internship has also been paid off by the Estonian state. But they're looking for the place, and we're helping if they can't find it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U66	Thank you. I have to say I don't know the party plan because I've been working on my work in Ida-Virumaa, but I can tell you my personal position. The sooner we start teaching Estonian, the easier it will be for us in the future. We teach Estonian and in Estonian, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U67	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U68	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, I have a question for you as a practitioner. After all, every day you deal with children or young people who come from Russian-speaking families and whose main language is Russian. This may be my subjective assessment or opinion, but I have the impression that these young people speak much better English as a second language than Estonian. It is often a mentality or a mentality that is passed on in the family, so why do you need the Estonian language, because you work either in your home region of Ida-Viru County or you go beyond the border where English is needed. Is my sense correct? What is your "work environment vision" on the students? Is that how it is, and what could be the problem here? Are there any other shortcomings that the state should actually do in order to increase the authority or priority of the Estonian language compared to the English language, which now seems to dominate the Estonian language?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U69	Thank you. My experience is that learners who speak English already have the goal of taking advantage of the opportunity to work across the European Union. Yes, there are students who say that for what do we need the Estonian language. They've been to me, too, but usually it just has to be explained. I have a simple example. Five boys, the tallest one was Mr. Aeg's, the rest were a little shorter, but I was the smallest of them. The longest question was, for what do we need the Estonian language? I only asked them to do one thing. I said, "Are you serious? " He said yes. I said: 'Take a white paper and write a statement that we no longer want to learn Estonian, we never want to make a career and we never want to get more pay than the minimum wage. " None of them wrote that statement. They said, "Maybe you're right, but no one has explained that to us. " All cases are different. In general, the percentage of students who say that Estonian is not needed is very low. But English is an international language. That's what they all learn in class.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U70	Mr Mets, thank you very much for your presentation and your answer to the questions. I would like to ask for the next chair of speech by Mart Rannut, Doctor of Philosophy at the University of Tartu, Narva College!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will give you a brief overview of the possibilities for moving to Estonian-language education. First of all, this transition is real and the Estonian state can handle it. The goal is for us to get better. This means that learning the Estonian language is not a matter of itself, but it is necessary to bring it to the level necessary for society to ensure the sustainable and conflict-free development of Estonian society in the Estonian language space. This does not mean that everyone learns the same thing, everyone learns as needed, but the minimum must be a single social network, a single social space. The focus, when we compare Estonia with other countries, is in general on primary school. Basic school is typically a compulsory part of education (now leaving Africa aside). In Estonia, there is such a special feature that we also have a very well-developed kindergarten network. In some countries, kindergarten is so-called integrated into primary school. But basic school is what socializes, it's this so-called secondary, secondary socialization in society, and it doesn't work. This is where a change is needed. But in order for this change to work without any major squeaks or disturbances, we need to put the emphasis on kindergarten at the same time. Just those two things. Other, I'd say, is prophylaxis. So far, we have done the opposite: we produce a crack, then the people go to work, and it turns out that one part of society has a wall ahead of us. And it doesn't fit. We produce almost 3,000 heads every year, and this, as we can see, we have not been able to repair. Of course, all levels must be dealt with. Besides middle school, it's kindergarten. Like I said, it's this introductory, prior job so there won't be any problems. We have a very strange thing about upper secondary school: we have two Estonian-language upper secondary schools, one becomes clear in Estonian, the other is impossible, where students of Russian schools study further. Then we have an education of interest, which has been sorted out for some reason. I know several cases when Estonians have been told that there are no more seats and you play football in Russian. These things are really weird. A Finn, by the way, wanted to put his kid in hockey practice. Then it turned out that the child should learn Russian first. Okay. We here bathe not very effectively, but we must remember that this bath is a double bath, namely immersion and also a desperation. If one component is missing, it won't work. Therefore, we have a duty to teach the language, that is, in particular, the responsibility of the state. This obligation, by the way, is expressed in human rights. I am not going to introduce a definition of human rights; it is the easiest way to understand human rights, so that this is what is specifically the responsibility of the state, a person does not have to argue about it in court. So, this desperation, that's this movement from segregation to integration. Here are three components: knowledge, attitudes, behaviour. I've usually given an example of talking about an anecdote to explain it. Someone's talking about an anecdote, everybody's laughing, one's not laughing. Well, why isn't he laughing? One reason, of course, is that he does not understand the language in which he was spoken. The other way is that he doesn't find this funny, his attitudes are different. And the third reason may be she's having a really funny time, but now she's suddenly laughing in front of older people, or the way a woman laughs in front of men. Those are the behavioral attitudes. The same is true of our integration: this triple set must work together. We can't take a textbook off somewhere in school and start learning how to read it, and then someone comes to the class to answer about the mind, whether it's history or something else. In this way, we do not shape attitudes or conduct. Let's talk about the current curriculum. The curriculum is a and o, which determines who comes out of our school and with what knowledge. First of all, school grades. Here we see the requirements of Estonian language. These Estonian language requirements are, above all, inadequate. Three years of studying to get to A1. Actually, it takes three months to get to A1, no more. You don't need more than a year to reach A2. It takes about three years to get to B1, we're going to study nine years. And the reason is that we're learning inefficiently. In three years, six hours of instruction in Estonian is provided in one week (I am talking about the first level of school). This means that these six hours are divided into three classes: there are two hours in first class, two hours in second class and two hours in third class. Each language methodology tells you that it is not possible to study in the initial stage if there is not one hour each day. This will ensure that children understand. But it's the way we do it with a pipette, we give it to the Estonian language, so maybe it'll become clear. Second point. We are very concerned to learn Russian. When we read the curriculum, we will see what the knowledge of the Estonian language we demand is. This is the kind of theoretical option that does not have much to do with practice: it communicates in Estonian in everyday communication situations, after nine winters, you can describe experiences, events, dreams and goals. Currently, upper secondary school graduates do not even know how to do this, but we do have a comprehensive school curriculum that requires that this is the kind of language skills that Estonian should be. Well, of course it's not. You could say that about half gets to that level or close to it and half doesn't get to that level. This applies both to graduating from comprehensive school and upper secondary school. I myself tend to spend my sweet summer on entrance exams, and then I see what language skills are like. One thing is, yes, what's in the curriculum, another thing is what comes out of another person's mouth. Those two things don't add up. But we're just worried about Russian. Let's see what Russian is required, for example, of Russian middle school graduates: speak and write appropriately and clearly, analyse the units of language levels, analyse the content of the text, create different oral and written texts from the type, style and genre, etc. I would expect this to be required in the case of Estonian language skills. Everything else, which applies to Russian, may be that we support our own language. We've got this thinking backwards somehow. Okay. Problems with language learning. Why do we have this thing backwards? First of all, our language policy and language management are under-scientific. We do have a lot of integration plans, and we had population ministers. It was this typical activity that was taken on by good party friends and friends and then something was done, but... I don't mean to say badly, I'm not saying so. Then a number of development plans have emerged. When scientists read them, they don't understand. The worst thing happened to us was the development plan of Estonian language. The latest development plan was for the years 2011 to 2017. A new project, a new draft was drawn up, and then the linguists said that no, we still do not agree to support any trash. And we are without a development plan, now it's 2018. So it's like there's nothing to develop. The second question, of course, is how do I say it politely again? Such political games. Especially in Tallinn and Narva, where it is not exactly understood what they want. In particular, this last project in Tallinn, where it is foreseen that we will reduce the learning of Estonian and then make it to a high level of proficiency in the Estonian language. A lot of money was immediately given for this, no scientific analysis or anything else was needed. The structure of authority, authoritarianism in schools and kindergartens that affect this thing. That's where a person with good language skills can't get into the inner circle. In Narva, there has been enough of the fact that the Estonian wants to go to work, the papers are there, he is a good teacher, but he is not allowed, there are no places. Obviously, because no one wants to be unemployed. Then it's like going back to the old-fashioned way. Of course, lack of transparency and weak supervision. A few years ago, I was sent from the Netherlands to study our schools. Then it turned out it was extremely difficult to get into school. When he got in there, he was put up with it for exactly two hours. Then they said, "That's enough, there's no need to watch what's going on in the classes. " Then he did a questionnaire and sent out to get the school students to answer. Half the questions were pulled out because the student must not have an opinion. That kind of thing. That's a big problem. I haven't gotten into kindergartens, for example. So there are a lot of problems. More. We've usually started doing things the wrong way. I'm gonna talk a little bit about the theoretical foundations of the language arrangement, too. Language arrangements are divided into four. Status management is language management, administrative management, image design. Language learning is the following dimension or dimension of language management, as stated in the text. This concerns the curriculum, educational resources and teachers. The corporal arrangement is about the quality of the language or, specifically, the language norm when we are talking about written language, including general language arrangements, language arrangements, name arrangements, translation arrangements. Then there is the language technology that concerns software, language body and language processing mechanisms in general, all these communication modes, etc. Okay. This basic engine, which with the crank drives the whole process, is, by the way, the status arrangement. If we do not require status, language learning will not progress. All right, scientists are patient people, they all suffer what politicians do. So you can start with language training, so let's do it now. Let's see what we need. There are two tasks. The linguistic socialisation of the future generation requires national language skills and the skills of the necessary foreign languages in the general education system, which now concerns the school. Then there is the integration of adult immigrants through language and basic courses. Actually, in the meantime, there's another part of it when you come to 6th or 7th grade, it's a no-meat-and-fish situation. There are special programs for this that we have in pilot schools that work quite well, for example in Lilleküla. We'll be fine. But this 'basic problem' is still coming from the Soviet era. A little review. Russian schools are in 12 municipalities and 9 municipalities are in which Estonian and Russian schools are side by side and do not understand exactly why one of them is not being locked up. Then there is the problem of geographical isolation. That's the polite thing to say, the scientific thing to say is 'a segregative language environment'. This is simply what kills Estonian language in Maardu, Kohtla-Järvel, Sillamäe and Narva, where the segregation of residence is directly related to the language and is reflected in the labour market. The problem is the size of 22000 students and it affects 13% of schools, in these schools they study. In fact, more than a third gets a rather decent Estonian bottom, through a late or early immersion. Our problem is that when a student has gone through it, he goes back to the exact old environment, he sits next to someone who doesn't know a or o from Estonian, he looks at the ceiling and out of the window. So we're wasting a lot of resources here. There are also 8% of children with Russian native language who study in Estonian school. Mothers still want the best for children and put them in Estonian school. In fact, this number would be higher if all schools received any door-to-door intruder. Then there is the problem of upper secondary schools, which is a strange problem because we have two types of Estonian upper secondary schools. Russian kindergartens: 105 kindergartens, 11000 children, 6800 in Tallinn, Ida-Virus 3200, so the rest means just a little kids all over Estonia. 25% of children in Russian are in the Estonian immersion group in kindergarten; 20% of children in Russian attend the Estonian kindergarten. In other words, almost half of the children we could immediately redirect to the Estonian-language school without any problems. But they don't, by the way. This is the interesting thing that a large number of children who have learned the Estonian language go to Russian-speaking school. According to one qualitative study that was carried out a few years ago, one third of children in Tallinn are those who go to Russian school but speak a perfectly good Estonian language, and one third of children are such that a support teacher is needed to manage in Estonian. This problem actually affects one third, who may not even know that there are children's programmes in Estonian on television. First of all, we have a great need to switch to Estonian-language education. This concerns human rights standards that we do not respect. There's an economic interest here, because how long we're still wasting money. Security is also perfectly understandable. Okay. And now the solution. We could, of course, start rolling from kindergarten. It's a pretty good solution, too, and I don't want to break hair now. The problem is that we are still producing 30,000 non-disclosures of the Estonian language at the time, the so-called crack. That's why I'm offering a slightly faster option. This transition would take place at the same time, at school levels. There are four grades (three grades in primary school plus upper secondary school), with separate kindergartens and preschools. Timeline: a preparatory year is definitely needed, first for legislation, and then there are three years to go through school. So by about 2023, it will be absolutely real to get the whole process ready. There is no need for graduation in the transition of kindergartens. This is quite a continuous process, the reorganisation of groups primarily based on Estonian kindergartens. But there is a need for legal preparation, legislative changes (at least seven laws that need to be addressed), then the curriculum needs to be reviewed, for example, the learning outcomes of the Estonian language as a second language need to be adapted and the proportion of subjects taught in Estonian increased. It's a technique. I stress one thing: we do not need to take into account the situation of the cities of Ida-Virumaa at the moment. If we start remembering this issue, we're going to have a very emotional discussion. So let's put this aside, let's solve 90% of the problem. This does not mean that we leave the towns of Ida-Virumaa completely aside, but we look at them separately. Indeed, there is a need for other methodological approaches. There is, in particular, the so-called artificial language learning environment that needs to be created, there are different language learning technologies. So let's look at it separately, but let's solve this 90% right now. There's probably some time-launch in Ida-Virumaa, but that doesn't stop us from getting out of the way of the process. Okay. So how do we cross? First of all, most parties have expressed this wise idea: from kindergarten onwards. Kindergarten is such a base, but it doesn't work for every child, because some children don't just go there and then go through school. However, we must actively direct it, as I said, that those coming from language immersion day-care centres and Estonian kindergartens would not get stuck again. Kindergarten preparation. There is no big problem here, there is a need for additional growers and training. This training has been provided for the last 15 years, there are no difficulties. By the way, I listened to the news today at 9:00, where it was very emotionally said that if someone wanted to teach a kindergarten child Estonian, he should have something close to his doctorate. I assure you, I don't need a doctorate. So I don't see a problem here. One year in Estonian kindergarten is quite enough for a child to enter the first class of Estonian school. Graduates of the language immersion programme can be directed to the Estonian school for further study, the programme can be combined with the Estonian school for this connection. A single Estonian upper secondary school. Exams should be in Estonian, not so that they learn to pass the Russian exams. Extra teachers, first class assistant teachers. In the following classes, they are not as topical as they were in the beginning. Then support opportunities, this already applies to all levels of schooling, provision of further training, etc. But it is, yes, technology. Finally, is it or is it not possible to switch?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U72	Dear waitress, I would like to apologize for a moment. Your report's over. Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U73	No, thank you! I will not answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U74	What if you did answer in one minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U75	I'd love to. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I would say that it is impossible to switch to a school in Estonian. Impossible for those whose voters are such that they cannot accept this idea. I fully understand those parties who are fighting against it. Another problem that hinders it, and because of which it is said that it is quite impossible, is that we really do have few experts in this area. Experts have not been trained, many have studied themselves. We can count those experts who can lead this process on the fingers of two hands, but there are ten times as many as we really need. So if we want to, we're gonna do this thing and we're gonna do it in four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U76	Thank you. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Beach! I listened with interest to your presentation and also looked at the material that we have in writing. It's called Necessity, Resources, Schedule. I ask about resources, especially financial resources. You're a linguist, maybe not the most correct addressee, but I still have that question. How many teachers with sufficient knowledge of the Estonian language are needed for this transition? Where do they get them? What is the cost of this? And the question of the towns of Ida-Virumaa. How long is this limp in this case, and is it really that the cities of Ida-Virumaa are only 10% of the problem? I think it's a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U78	Yes, the problem with the towns of Ida-Virumaa is, above all, that we do not know exactly who is now in charge of these cities, such as Narva, and that communication is very complicated there. This concerns not only Narva but also other cities. Therefore, I would really put this in the background on this whole issue. As far as the need for teachers is concerned, I wrote an article a few months ago on the subject where I analysed where to take these teachers, what would be the solution. There I see no problem with proper organisation, because we can also use the resources of Russian school teachers. After all, one part teaches Russian in Estonian and teaches properly, I have checked myself. So we can handle this, I'd say. As for the financial side, here I am really a little weak to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U79	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have been an expert on the Council of Europe Committee against Racism and Intolerance for 14 years. The reports on Estonia have all over blamed us for segregation in the education system, where there is also a potential risk of discrimination. This segregation is particularly evident in parallel education, when children are categorized by language in separate groups. However, this parallel society or the parallel system has not only survived over time, but has in some ways been reproduced, which we note in this debate. Do you think this criticism has been correct? How do we explain our situation at international level and what solutions do we propose outside Estonia in order to overcome this segregation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U81	Yes, international forums have consistently recognised that there is segregation in Estonia, we do not guarantee equal opportunities. We do not guarantee the rights of children, for example, by looking at the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That's it. And what do we do here? There's nothing we can do, and we have to say that right, yes, we are violating human rights. But the important thing is that we add that we're actively working on this thing, it's gonna be okay. I don't know what to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U82	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U83	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you very much for your presentation. I have a question like two parts. In our small Estonia, language learning and integration are actually extremely uneven. There is no problem in South Estonia because in South Estonia, specifically in Viljandi, the Russian school closed itself because the children went to other schools. When I had a boyfriend graduating from ninth grade, his flight was the best Estonian knowledgeer Russian. Can we still, can we, and can we actually hit one table? In some ways, you mentioned Ida-Viru County, but I think this problem is a little wider. Question two. If we would rank three preferences, a good Estonian language skills, a common Estonian school or a common Estonian school, regardless of the language in which it is taught (also in Russian it is possible to teach correctly and to teach sensitive things in the same way), and thirdly the transition to Estonian-language learning, which of these is the most important school in your opinion, and whether these things can be done at the same time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U84	First of all, different Estonian language environments. Scientists divide them into four. The cities of Ida-Virumaa belong to the most complex, fourth environment, while Viljandi, Tartu and Pärnu also belong to the second language environment. In Viljandi, yes, they closed the doors of the Russian school, the children went to Estonian school. I went to talk to the teachers on the ground, it turned out that the teachers did not know which child's native language was Russian, which child's native language was Estonian. The problem solved in a few years. The same could happen in Tartu and Pärnu, there would be no problem. If we look 'territorially', to ensure that 90% of the Estonian language functions properly in the language learning system, there is no problem. But as for the sequencing of these options, I don't want to go into the details here. This really requires defining different details. The important thing is to cross over. I wouldn't even start pulling that exact line here, as long as we can get out of the way. All solutions are good that lead in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U85	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U86	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I want to start with a compliment. If we'd come into this hall and started your presentation, I think we'd all feel a lot better. Your presentation, as well as your earlier articles, which I remember from summer 2017, spoke about the matter and offered solutions. I have a question. In this article, which you wrote at the time in Äripäev, you have certainly written a lot, you referred to the fact that today's government departments are taking rather vague positions, including the IRL, and there is no will to cross over. Do you think, like me, that the talk about delaying the transition to Estonian-language learning under the flexibility label is bullshit and, in fact, the drafts that are in the process, so that in five years you could do it (you said that even in four), you could already get the support of the parties of today's government coalition and take action?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U87	As for my article on Äripäev, I don't remember saying very bad things about political parties there. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, I'm still trying so-called deceiving my friendly side. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] With regard to these internal political issues, the different perceptions of political parties, I would not be happy to touch on them. But it is clear that there is no basis for postponement. In fact, this whole issue came to Parliament in 1993, the law was passed, it was the Kulbok Act. I remember that in 1994 the Ministry of Education had already sent an amendment to the relevant section for coordination, and it was then rejected in order to try to get the Ministry of Education to work, but they did not start working, and when the time came, this amendment was still made. We have been delaying it so far, and we have had some good ideas about why it has all been useful. Now we see how useful this has been. Is it possible to do this now? I'm not answering that question again. But when it comes to my religion, it's pretty weak about it. Of course it would be good, we could win a year in the whole process, but yes, it's stuck behind my faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U88	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! On several occasions, I believe that you mentioned two important things. You referred to the fact that in certain municipalities it is not possible to reasonably enter institutions in order to carry out research in order to diagnose or find new solutions. On the other hand, you also referred to the fact that certain municipalities are not politically interested. Then, in this Parliament, we will have the question of whether there is a gap in our laws. If we are to achieve country-specific objectives that are very important, reduce segregation and whatever, then we should change the laws so that any local authority has no chance of resisting it even because of its narrow political interests. Or did I misunderstand you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U90	I wouldn't say there's a law gap, there's more. In addition, we have made a number of choices in law, for example, at present the school owner is the local government, which also determines the rules in this area. How exactly do you change that? That is the aim of us to correct our seven laws or to say that we are making changes. Then it would be possible to direct this process, we would give 'the right rails' how this process will proceed. Without legal changes, it will only be very difficult to find administrative solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U91	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U92	Thank you, Mr. Waitress, for this interesting presentation and for the proposal to make the five-year anniversary in four years. But I'd like a little clarification. You mentioned at the beginning that immersion and desperation should have something to do with it, but this desperation remained somewhat undefined. I didn't understand whether Estonian citizens had some mandatory political views or whether there was some sort of anecdote that all people living in Estonia had to laugh about. Do the Russian-speaking people of Estonia have the right to maintain their own culture or are the Estonian language and mind learning intended to exchange culture? Do you think that teaching the Estonian language is a level playing field, making lingua franca in this country so that we can all easily communicate, or is it an assimilation project?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U93	First of all, assimilation. It's also one of those well-known slogans that will be hung in any case possible. One may ask if we have assimilation in Estonia, and the answer is that this is a 100% right slogan, indeed. We have the so-called third nations assimilation to the Russian nation. There is an interesting study that one third of students currently attending school (those who go to Russian school and who are Russians) are not Russians and grandfathers, but are assimilated. This process, by the way, continues. Today it will continue, tomorrow it will continue. So we have an assimilation to the Russian community. Okay. Another thing is whether there is an obligation or some standard that determines that mind. There is no mental standard directly, but we have a curriculum, there are competences, values, learning outcomes. This requires a single social space of some kind. This single social space already ensures that we have the same knowledge on painful matters, such as the deportation of 1940. These are the things that are very, very separate at the moment, which have been dealt with differently. So this creation of a single social space is the kind of set where knowledge, behaviour and attitudes are inside.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U94	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U95	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thanks for the presentation, too. You were involved in self-game politics, an example of Narva and Tallinn. I think this is a very important issue for our statehood. Yeah, maybe it's easy to say here that the solutions are in law change, but unfortunately there isn't. Let's start with the attitude and will to see the problem. On the basis of your actions, can you tell us what the root cause is why it is actually possible to establish a country in our country? What would be the possible solution to this problem, even if it were to be made aware of to such an extent that there would be changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U96	Listening to this question, I got the feeling that you know the answer better than I do. Yeah, I think the others here are much more competent than I am here, in this unfortunate remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U97	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U98	Thank you, Mr. Rannut, for a very clear message. Like I told you myself, but better and more authoritative. But there must be a big surprise for the party that invited you here. I understand them too, because this whole anti-segregation attitude is what the voter really expects of them. We do not give our children as guinea pigs, i.e. Estonian children, and Estonian language is not a goal But help disprove these fears. I also have some of these fears and Estonian parents too. Help me disprove them! How, then, can we protect Estonian families so that they do not become Russian in this environment, and how can we take these tensions off them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U99	The first part of the question once again concerned different concepts, supposedly different concepts of how to switch to education in Estonian. I'm lost in my knowledge here again. But I'm telling you, there wasn't any such thing that I wouldn't say anything. I was able to praise the Fatherland for my thoughts in advance. So I might not be able to see that difference here. But when it comes to where that mistake is, it's still between two ears, and it's called a national inferiority complex. If anyone wants to read more, it's called a minority complex, as used in science. French social psychologist Henri Tajfel has written a book on this matter. We're still wrestling with it. In other parts of Europe, we have a pretty strange view of the fact that we have two segregated school systems.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U100	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U101	Dear waitress, thank you also for your excellent presentation and for the messages you have said here. You have answered part of my question by answering previous questions. It bothers me that political parties in their fights focus on language learning as a tool in themselves, that they try to paint it green or blue, for example, while language learning as a tool still works with certain motivations in some environment. You gave a very good example here on the basis of Viljandi. I would now like to ask from this alternative example that a third of Estonian kindergarten graduates go to Russian school in Tallinn. What really motivates them to go to Estonian school? Can you explain your motivation a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U102	Yeah, I get it. The problem is motivation. To be precise, how can we do so? That's the status arrangement that's the crank engine that's gonna start this whole process. If parents think in the right direction, children too will start thinking in the right direction. But this is a separate subject again, which I will not now deal with under language training, except in the so-called 'Work with Parents' chapter. If we're going to write this original document, there must definitely be this chapter inside. Here is also a good example of the fears of immersion. Just like parents were worried, scared, afraid of false motivation. But they got it. This time, I think, it's going even easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mart Rannut! Your presentation also outlines problems in language learning. One thing is that language policy and language management are less scientific. My question, however, is purely that today, language teaching has become an exciting and fast process with technology. Would you appreciate Estonia's ability here? Where do we have this research centre, who actually uses the most modern techniques of teaching Estonian, somehow initiates them and introduces them into language teaching? Is this job enough for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U104	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U105	I would say that we have several organisations that introduce different techniques in language teaching. Sometimes it is possible to teach the language on news or other programs. But the main problem is that a lot of people don't want to learn that way. There's a small part of it, I don't dare say a percentage of it, what a big part it is, who's happy to learn, but a large part wants to study traditionally. And the best language learning in this case is still direct communication.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U106	Thank you, Doctor of Philosophy Mart Rannut, for your presentation. I apologize to those who didn't have time to ask, but you would have wanted to. I really hope you'll be able to do it outside the hall. I'm opening negotiations. First, there will be representatives of the political groups. I call on the Central Party Group to speak on behalf of Aadu Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! Experts! I am not speaking on behalf of the real group. I have a large package of papers that I could read, but when I listened to today's debate, I had a deep conviction that this was not a question of one party, another party or third party, but of Estonia's statehood, national culture and sustainability. On the 'positive side', I dare say to you that the Committee on Culture has given great importance to this topic, has experienced setbacks and has rejoiced over every small step forward. There are places to cheer, but let's save them for another time. First of all, I have already been told that I have also listened to the conversations of expense, that, for some reason, politicians will remember Estonian every four years and, in the meantime, they will forget that there has been anything before. I was just in the hallway asking if this issue had been dealt with before. I promise I won't talk history, or I'll stay in history. I only mention one thing: yes, for the last 486 years. Sorry, for Estonia, this topic has been extremely topical for the last 150 years, with about 10% being what the people hear and 90% being what you read later in the archives files and you understand that there are dozens of aspects of language policy that are not mentioned. Then you look at the archives of a friendly neighboring country and you see that they don't talk, and the third ones don't talk either. So this is a highly complex theme circle. However, I will come back to today's debate. It is certainly important to raise the subject once again, but I would also like to emphasise that do not now think that the task of the Riigikogu is to discuss some precise methodological issues. We need to be educated, we'll be smarter when we hear what the real background is about by practitioners as well as theorists. But it is certainly not our job to say whether we are teaching this thing first or by what methodology or whether we are doing it outside or walking or definitely in a closed room. These are interesting things, too, but they don't touch on the subject. In fact, Viktoria also said a number of quite fine points in her opening speech. One thing was that even though he was talking about kindergartens, he pointed out that there were no coaches speaking in Estonian, or we did not have enough teachers. Listen, there may not be enough choir leaders in the end. So this is indeed a broad, extremely wide subject. For my part, I can say that we have been exposed to the wrong roles of professionals and politicians, even at university. I remember how very smart and nice the university people said that under no circumstances will we allow five Russian-speaking people to study in the history department without competition, because we have the principle of equal treatment. I thought it was a little unhappy, because then the five people who went to school came from Pihkva's pedagogical institute and they knew the mosquitoes that she had to be protected from the dangers of the West. Mart Nutt, a wise man, has told us many times that we have a parliamentary state. I'm really starting now. Don't resent it from a long distance. Mart once said that it was also necessary for this to happen, that it might be in control in Estonia... Words were different, but the thought was that maybe it would control the division of the authorities. We sometimes have several ministries side by side, and when it comes to deciding something, they think that maybe it is interesting and necessary for Estonia, they do not know that, but it is not suitable for their ministry. Perhaps it is that if Parliament is stronger, it will balance it. And, you know, we became a laughing stock, laughed a lot when we were here discussing that the Ministry of the Interior was teaching the Estonian language at the Ministry of the Interior, and then it turned out that... Or was it the Justice Department? No, the Ministry of Justice taught prisoners and the Ministry of the Interior to migrants, et cetera. One of the biggest troubles is that if the Estonian state should be like a bone that wipes, we have divided the rods into ministries and there is a great deal of division.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U108	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U109	Obviously, however, one solution is that there must be a strong responsibility in the Estonian country, who is still involved in studying the language, the language. Very good examples were given here, saying that it must be science-based. Of course it does. But I will translate to good colleagues and myself what this science-based means. Science-based means that politicians don't come with their momentary impression that I'm in a beer room... I'm sorry! Ptui! That I heard from the voters that this thing has to be done this way, the other way or the third way. Of course, this must be approached on a science-based basis. It's almost time, as usual here. There was also a question of whether we would leave Ida-Virumaa aside or not. It was already heard from the lines that you know, it turns out that even in South Estonia local authorities are helping with their efforts and it becomes the norm. Ida-Viru County is a national problem. You know, it's like this, that's what Parliament has to say, that the state still has to come to a great deal of help. Solution. The first solution is to have several of my friends and opponents and opponents and everyone talked about it, but they say on their own that language policy should be cross-party where a small victory is not plucked. And also, let's keep working. The Cultural Commission is doing its best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U110	Thank you. Priit Sibul, on behalf of the Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Who can force the cripple if the cripple doesn't want to walk? So far, attempts on Estonian-language educational space have failed. With a breakdown of 60 years: 40 upper secondary schools in Russian-speaking schools have so far been the only real attempt to move towards the Estonian-language educational space, and this attempt has largely failed. I think the most important reason is the inconvenience. It is easy to say that it is unpleasant to take responsibility and participate in the process, to be responsible. 60: 40 has in many ways remained a slogan. The cripple is not schools, students, or parents, but us and officials who have not dared to admit failure. There's at least one former Minister of Education in the hall, several ministers should still be here, but no one has raised the red flag. I am not only critical of former ministers; we could all have done more, including me. We have now come to the point that it is clear to everyone that the solution to this issue has failed. This is a good starting point for a new start. However, a race is about to take place that can set the most resounding slogan. This was not the purpose of the Fatherland when we came up with the topic of the Estonian educational space at the General Assembly. We already hear promises about early childhood education in Estonian. Another unborn party declares that they are the ones who are nationalizing the entire school network. Good people in the municipalities, some of you may be watching this conversation here. Estonia 200 is convinced that they are better schoolkeepers than you are. Some parties report that early childhood education must be made compulsory, others that children must all be sent to school at the age of 6 and always to solve social problems through the educational network. Maybe the Monday's draft decision of the Reform Party was the most rude of all, the opposition's command boards for the government with only one message, let it be done. What it doesn't matter. The Estonian language is not acquired by the educational network, but by the small Vanja, who will be able to communicate more smoothly with the small Juku. It is possible that it is little Katya who will find herself a husband in Juku's face who is not as passionate as Vanya. The way Vanya and Katya are learning depends on whether they have a teacher who can teach them. I think it's clear to everyone, even if at first sight the politician doesn't care. There is an even more important person in language training than a teacher and student. It's a parent. When an elder announces that mathematics is a pointless subject, the child's education goes less well because there is no motivation. The problem of language learning is even greater and more acute. If a parent feels that language training is a punishment, then it also seems to be a punishment for the child. Many in this hall remember how Russian language learning was a punishment, not to mention that the teaching methodology tended to be ineffective. The goal cannot be to punish little Vanya and Katya, although some seem to want to. The fifth column, as they say. A Russian parent recently complained in the media about how his child was wronged in the Defence Forces because he was unable to become a driver and had problems with basic training. Instead of looking back on the way to school, being wise and demanding about himself, the school, and the Ministry of Education, he accused the defence forces. Translate to the trenches next to the soldier. It was a sad reading. In fact, we need the understanding and demandingness of Russian parents against the education system and themselves so that their children can have their doors in Estonia by making further choices in their language. Little Juku forgot for a second, Mari too. Little Juku and Mari seem to be the characters who think that instead of a teacher, Vanya and Katya should teach the Estonian language, integrate them, integrate them, and be superheroes. It is as if Russian children and Estonian children in one school should solve this problem, which older people have not done in 30 years. A little much to ask. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U112	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U113	Isamaa is convinced that there is no point in imposing an obligation on Juku and Mari; it is up to them to cope on their way to school; some believe that they will also bring Estonian rankings with the results of PISA. I am convinced that the Fatherland is convinced that there is no one successful model for the trans-Estonian transition to the Estonian education system. Narva and Valga, Sillamäe, Lasnamäe and Tartu are too different to hit them with one malaka. A good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, had a pretty sensible idea of regional development plans in a newspaper story. I have a proposal for the Reform Party: that is where we could start, regional development plans and their implementation, pilot projects that would set an example. Take Tartu and Valga first. You have a leading position in both municipalities, the Centre Party probably doesn't mind supporting it, and the Fatherland with its smaller representation is ready to assist with advice and strength on both sides. From there we will move forward as quickly as possible across Estonia, sharing good practices and planning resources, training teachers and helping Russian parents to understand that their children are not being repressed. We take care of Tartu and Valga, but it is not about schools, it is about children. Careful, please! If we can reach an agreement that this issue is a priority, also in the future coalition agreement and in the government, there is hope that in the next four years we will be able to achieve more here than in the last 25 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U114	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Strange situation. On the initiative of the Fatherland, we had to get an overview of some of the plans that this party has on the transition to education in Estonian since kindergarten. It was a title, and then came the waitresses chosen by the same party. We heard nothing of the plan except what Mart Rannut said, whose story went completely against what was said by the party that initiated this debate, the Fatherland. I was actually hoping that tonight someone would apologize to Priit onion at the top of the line for the words they've said. Because when we came up with this transition idea last year, we still got pretty officially kicked by all the parties that have spoken about this issue in this Chamber. The story of Priit Sibula was that this idea of education in Estonian has gone wrong, that this is no purpose in any way. Kalle Muuli spoke of populism and ploughing. What did the party chairman say? I mean, we don't give our kids a guinea pig for an experiment. This means a strong stance in favour of a well-integrated education system. But the Human Development Report, which came after our proposal, clearly states that language learning is not a matter. This is not about language learning, but about learning in Estonian and the consequences of segregation for Estonian society. We could have talked about that. The only one who talked about it was Mart Rannut, and it was a great text. A little reckless, even though I've said the same thing myself. He said nothing about these fears, such as those of the Estonians, or how to calm down these minority Russians, that they are not being bullied, but that the whole thing is in their interests, all the way to their health, but it is certainly in the interests of their economic livelihood. Viktoria, unfortunately, spent most of her time driving someone, and she didn't really name those names, but it was a total contradiction. He once said that it was like an old record that has been going on all the time, but nothing has happened, then he said that it was like a topic taken out of the context of the elections, some sort of sudden, campaigned-enhanced transition to education in Estonian. Eventually, I didn't understand. I'll sort it out then. It is extremely cynical to accuse me personally, who I was Minister of Education, and, of course, my party, why you did not do it yourself. This is an extremely cynical complaint, because no one can be required to do only those things that have already been done. On the contrary, things that have not been done can still be done. And this idea really came after my time at the Ministry of Education. For this Irene Käosaar has publicly apologized to me on social media, he regrets that he did not propose to me. No bits of information, no initiatives on this topic were in the Ministry of Education, it was not on any agenda, nor was it in the coalition agreement that we made with you. And now you're complaining that it was some kind of record or that it was campaigning, somehow in connection with the election. No, I had to think of it myself, because it was a quiet subject. Who kept quiet? Again, I don't want to point the finger at you, but for seven years in a row, the Minister of Education had the briefcase in your party's hands. It must have reflected the readiness of society. It was. I say that things happen at a certain point, at a certain point there are thoughts, at a certain point there is hope that next actions will happen. But this issue has always been avoided and it has also been directly blocked. The Minister of Education of the Centre Party has forced a coalition agreement that there will be no transition at the same time. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U116	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U117	But once again, we should go to these recipes now. If you listened to Mart Rannut's very bold presentation, you can compare. The same things I have said in my recent article, which Priit Onion quoted today. Indeed, as he quoted, it is not the same everywhere, but I have also been told by experts that at first there are some parts of the canopy, but it is still better than what is now. This decision must be made, the transition must be decided. At the beginning of each academic year, everyone in each school must know that the compulsory language of instruction is Estonian. We have these methodologies, we have prospects, but this decision has to be made, a political decision. That is why we have also presented the draft in such a form that neither any political parties nor the legislator have all these things in their hands. The role of legislator was again referred to today by Mart Rannut. I'm already checking with him what laws he thinks are in need of change, I don't have an overview. However, I can well imagine this organizational carousel, which concerns the school network and the assessment of directors, I am thinking of external evaluation. Of course, it includes further training for teachers; of course, some preparatory groups need to be considered, but all of this must be described by region and by school, which schools can immediately switch to, which must be given some perspective. But the fact that the decision has fallen is the key now, but it has not been done so far. That's the whole point. It's still very impudent to hold a debate about you being in power, and you weren't doing anything. We really didn't make it. All this time, for a year and a half, we had the briefcase. Indeed, we were a little late in formalising, but this topic should have already been worked out by previous ministers at the Ministry of Education. I know Jaak Aaviksoo worked hard on this subject, and it was born at 60:40 at one point, but there were ministers who were directly opposed to it. Now it seems that this readiness exists. Of course, yesterday the Prime Minister was a total disappointment, although he quite rightly responded as expected. When we spoke about education in Estonian, he cynically thanked the person asking for the fact that it was a good thing to draw attention to the teaching of the Estonian language. This is exactly the opposite of what the point is. This is not about learning the Estonian language, but about learning the Estonian language and ending segregation. How quickly this is happening somewhere, it's already a longer debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U118	Priit Sibula has the right to object. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U119	Thank you. I am simply saying that on several occasions people have also pointed out from the ranks of the Reform Party that I have opposed. Really, that's right, I don't like some of their ideas that have been put out. But I think we could stick to this goal, and if we can agree on this goal, it will, I think, be very sensible. I really do not like compulsory kindergarten and I am not convinced that it is possible to learn the language of all children who do not speak Estonian. I am still sticking to that position. Really, I took hold of a nuance that could be done on the basis of a request from the Reform Party. It was certainly not the most sensible thing to do, for that I apologize. But I hope everyone in this Chamber will realize that the goal is common. Let's try to find more common ground instead of these details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U120	We are in the process of speaking from the political groups; this was the proposal of the initiator of a very important national issue. Jevgeni Ossinovski, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U121	Honourable Chairman! Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U122	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, It is, of course, difficult to say something on such a broad subject in eight minutes, so I would like to draw attention to some of the matters of meaning and importance in this debate. First of all, in 2014, I started one of my opinion stories on Russian-speaking education as follows: 'The Russian-speaking school issue has been heating the passions of the Estonian public for years and dividing the Estonian-Russian community in a completely aimless discussion that could be described in gadamerly with the words 'inability to speak'. " The reason for this was and is a decades of misconception of integration policy, according to which integration is equivalent to the proficiency of the Estonian language. To learn the Estonian language for these Russians, they could communicate properly with Estonians, and society would be integrated! It's not like that. A completely purely Estonian-speaking Russian-speaking young person recently said very well in a debate that he has Estonians in the majority, he gets along with them, he is completely accepted and has no problems whatsoever. At one point, however, he noticed that if these same colleagues were having weddings or birthdays, he would not be invited there for some reason. The aim of integration policy is relations; the knowledge of the Estonian language comes with it as a positive linguistic benefit. After all, we all know that any foreign language is the easiest to learn when it is needed in everyday natural human communication. And that's what's needed when there's human contact. This, unfortunately, is not replaced by academic teaching material, no matter how much it is. If you are blind to the need for social integration, i.e. closer contact between nations, as many people are continuing to speak in this area, then the whole discussion will go away on how the education system should teach the Estonian language. And then, of course, it makes perfect sense to arrive at the conclusion that the Russian-language school must be transferred to Estonian-language education; then, after all, this language training is more effective, and with it, language skills are better. A few years ago, this ideology led to a reform of the upper secondary school, and now the initiators of today's debate and some other political forces are calling for its expansion in the middle school and in the perspective of 100%. It's my guess. It's a mistake. There will be more language training, but it will remain unnatural and artificial. This fails for another reason: namely, the educational process is a thing that takes place every day in each particular classroom. The curriculum framework and the educational organisation framework are, of course, there, but the curriculum does not teach, the teacher teaches with the parent. Education is an art and has one important basic rule that most education politicians unfortunately do not understand. The educational process is effective if the education partners, i.e. children, teachers and parents, believe in it if they believe that what is done is reasonable and effective. This will also be the biggest deficit of the upper secondary school reform. At the Russian-speaking school, teacher Natalia was happy to talk to the children in Russian at Stepanovna recess, then she went to class and started teaching geography in Estonian with her strong accent. The children asked: "Teacher, why are you suddenly speaking in Estonian? We don't understand it well, and you don't know it too well either. " The teacher replied: " Well, I don't know why I'm doing this either, but they decided that it had to be done on Toompea. So let's get started. " This change did not have sufficient social support and, if not enough, the parties did not believe that what was being done was actually reasonable. By expanding the artificial Estonian-language education in today's school, we are stepping on the same rake even more rapidly, and this social bump will not soon heal. Compared to 2014, when I wrote this story, two things have gotten better. Firstly, social scientists have said more forcefully that the root cause of today's problems is not the lack of effectiveness of language learning, although this is also a fact, but that Estonian and Russian children are only meeting at the university and not everyone gets there. Secondly, the readiness of Russian-speaking families to study in Estonian has increased and the attitudes of the Estonian-speaking population towards greater social inclusion of the Russian-speaking population have also improved. This will allow us to move forward in this debate from the darkness of education policy, which I was talking about and which the initiators of this debate are suffering, towards seeking real solutions. Yes, the final goal of Estonian education policy should be one Estonian school where Estonian and Russian children study together. Estonian school with a big star. How do you do that? One party has offered to adopt a law that clearly states that in one particular year Estonian and Russian children will go to one class and that is the case. Education doesn't work that way. All kinds of laws can be passed. After all, we can decide in this Chamber that the Estonian swordsmen's team will receive a gold medal in the Olympic Games in 2020. I hope so, but not because such a law was passed. Therefore, bearing in mind that the educational process is effective only if the parties believe in it, the question of the state is as follows: how can we create an environment in which both Estonian and Russian-speaking parents wish to put their children in the school where Estonian and Russian-speaking children study together? I am not talking about the organisation of educational infrastructure here, but about attitudes. This requires adequate social support for a specific educational model. Indeed, scientists have discussed these models a great deal and they have been created, but they need adequate social support. The fears of Estonian parents have already been spoken here, and this is a completely topical issue. The Estonian parent quite rightly asks how the school in which they study together is in the interests of his child. The Russian parent rightly asks how it is ensured that his or her child acquires Russian as his or her mother tongue and retains his or her cultural identity in this school. A representative of the Reform Party has said that these are side-by-side issues. These are not secondary issues, but the most important issues for the success of the reform, to which not only answers are needed, but also the belief that these legitimate educational values are protected. There are certainly many models in different regions, they are different in what kind of subjects, to what extent and how to teach. All these issues need to be discussed. Now for the summary. It seems to me that we are finally beginning to have the capacity to speak on this subject, and this is not of minor importance. Now society needs to discuss specific models in order to believe that such models or models are working. I believe that this is possible and it will also be possible to gradually implement them in the next period of governance. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the hot pre-election period, I call on you to not break this positive attitude with your political hybrid, with your faith in my omnipotence. A window of social opportunity is opening, we use it wisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U124	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U125	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good people's representatives! The faction of the Free Party supports the move towards ending the existence of two parallel cultural spaces that still exist in Estonian society. This has been a very difficult time for Estonian society and, in my opinion, I am now saying all those discussions that say why it was not done earlier and how we have been late, in a sense barren, because there is a time and a place for everything, and especially for such a great cultural change. Without wishing to dwell on the important big truths here, I believe that the leadership of this whole process requires first and foremost state wisdom, because state-manship has gathered here in this Chamber for the decision to be made; it is here. What we need is precisely state wisdom. After all, the whole issue has historical roots, social-political significance and a very deep human aspect. We should not forget any of these aspects in resolving such big issues, and rather we should look in such a long, distant view that the Estonian state as a whole, Estonia's independence and Estonia's freedom are the values that have actually been given to this society and which this society must bear, and they must also be served by our entire language policy and our entire education policy. We very much agree that it is not just about school education and the organisation of school education; it is also about the status of the language itself, the reputation of the language itself, our own values and our own attitudes. There are a very large number of practical questions that must also be put on the table when a major political decision has been taken, and they must also be reviewed. From what are the teaching tools, whether they exist, whether they are regionally suitable, what is the possibility of taking into account regional specificities and needs, which has already been discussed a lot today. The most important issue is school leaders and school teachers. The question of teachers is more acute than that of today's discussions and presentations. It is the teacher who shapes these values and values, and also the mind through teaching. If we have not actually been able to prepare enough to date this group of teachers who teach in Russian schools and should teach there in Estonian, then we must admit it. One of the options that must be considered boldly when such a process is launched and which must be considered is definitely the involvement of the private sector. If we are able to involve private operators in this private initiative, to show them the interest and importance of this good result, then success will be better ensured than, alone, by organising the legislative process and surviving the arrangements. The state must obviously have financial support, it must be fair and fair, and it must also meet needs, it cannot be the country's symbolic support that we support and give with a finger. By reorganizing the entire school education, including early childhood education, we should still not forget the question of language due to multiculturalism, it is the Estonian diaspora or the children who return to Estonia with their parents. They, too, need education in Estonian, in a spirit that is pro-Estonian. Therefore, if we make such a decision in this hall, I hope that we will make a decision, then I call on all of us to have state wisdom, to what was partly found and carried out in Estonia as early as 1919. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U126	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U127	Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to being a simple member of this Riigikogu, I am also the president of the Estonian-Italian parliamentary group and I would like to share in this discussion an excellent experience of language, culture and economic policy from South Tyrol. The reason why the German-speaking and German-speaking people living in southern Tyrol discovered after the first world war that the borders had moved across them was completely different from why the Russian-speaking people of Estonia discovered in 1991 that the borders had moved across them, but the practical result was the same. A German-language enclave with a strong alpine and Austrian culture emerged mainly in the Italian language. While there was authoritarian power in Italy, cultural assimilation was sought until people's last names were changed, the names of places changed, the architecture changed. After World War II, Italy and Austria agreed to protect the German population, but it was not implemented very effectively until the situation reached the conclusion that in the 1960s southern Tyrol was becoming a terrorist place. The United Nations General Assembly adopted two resolutions on what is happening in South Tyrol. Everyone feared that it would become a new Basque Country, that it would become such an intense place forever. But it didn't quite work out. For two reasons. One of these reasons is what one of my acquaintances has described in such words: "I remember this time. In the seventies, my family and I went skiing in the northernmost part of South Tyrol. It felt like we were abroad. People spoke only German, it was impossible to find Italian newspapers, hotel owners and guests were only Austrians and Germans, but no one treated us with contempt, no one thought we were traitors, no one thought we were invaders. ' Italian and German residents, however, got along. Nevertheless, there was no national feud, just as there is not in Estonia, where, despite everything, Estonian-speaking and Russian-speaking people get along with each other. On the basis of this principle, the Italian State decided that this instrument was not a language policy, not that they were pushing schools into Italian without asking the people what their will was, but that they were introducing economic policy. They're taking the region, it was more of a backward region, and it's making it Italy's most successful, economically prosperous place. They did it. By the eighties, terrorism was entirely a thing of the past. Today everyone there speaks Italian, everyone speaks German, too. There is no question whether kindergarten should be in Italian. The kindergarten is in German, the school is in German, but everyone speaks Italian. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U128	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U129	Once upon a time, there are some memories: the same examples of fascist architecture that are completely alien to such a typical alpine environment. These architectural monuments mark and continue to mark entirely different things for the Italian-speaking community and the German-speaking community. To one, it marks foreign power and imposition; to another it marks the knowledge that in a democratic society, if we respect each other, we can overcome these things. Some remember how they caused injustice, others remember that they survived. These are different approaches to history, but they can be together. Southern Tyrol is one of Europe's best, perhaps even the best, examples of integration in the world. This is something that, I think, Estonia could take the example of. Today, we will see what the will of men is. I was watching the 2016 Saar Poll survey. Most of our Russian-speaking people find that until comprehensive school, education can still be in Russian. Whether the Estonian language is taught as a foreign language or there is a immersion in the school, opinions differ on this matter, some prefer learning as a foreign language, some think it might be up to the school to decide. There is also relatively strong support for the existing 60:40 systems (60:40 upper secondary schools). There is no support for such an absolute transition to Estonian-language education. The imposition of this will lead to Italy's 60s scenario. That won't be necessary. I suggest you think for a moment that maybe to this language, to this lingua franca, to the fact that we are actually comfortable when we all speak Estonian, maybe it would make sense to go around. Let's invest in this area. Ida-Viru County is also beautiful, not to mention that a very significant part of Estonia's GDP is coming from there already. Differences in tax policy. People who feel like it's one of the most thriving places. Language is learned, language is lingua franca, language is not as important as everything we do here. People really want to learn the language. We create a situation where it comes naturally, create a situation where people don't even think that maybe someone wants to take away my culture. As soon as this problem gets off, as soon as they see that I'm being taken care of economically, economically, I have a future here, there's no need for me to study in English, because I'm not getting a job here anyway. It's not like that. You have to take away the fear that my culture will be taken away from me. I think we all remember that fear in this hall. In our own country, we should not create it for anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U130	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I watched my good colleague Jürgen Ligi devote 90% of his time to form and 10% to content. I'm trying to dedicate 10% to the form and 90% to the content. Maybe for a previous speaker who, frankly, caused a surprise. It's part of the uniform now. It was representatives of the political groups, and Oudekki Loone also represented the faction of the Centre Party, and his message was that the Estonian Centre Party does not support the transition to full Estonian-language learning, and that is not necessary. I am sure it is interesting to hear from the Prime Minister later whether this is true, but it is true when the representative of the group said so. As I said, 10% would stop at this emotional moment, and it seems to me that even to some extent the physical pain that governs the Reform Party. When I said before that 90% of the form and 10% of the content are spoken of, for some reason, we are only talking about who started this topic, who has talked about how much, and about the side that they want to hear, what thoughts are and how to go forward, we are not hearing much. But here's a little bit of a topic. Why do we need to keep this subject up today, and why do we need to move on to this issue? Fatherland has been one of those parties that have ever been at the table as the initiator of the 60:40 requirement. We don't deny it. Today we say that these decisions have not worked, they have not worked at the level that we would have expected. I liked Hans H.Luig's idea a while ago, perhaps a month ago, when he said to television that one of the works that journalists might have had to do 27 years ago was that politicians should have put more pressure on the transition to the Estonian language, a complete transition to the Estonian language. Then we wouldn't be talking about what we're talking about today. If we take a decision and agree that this is our priority, it seems to me that several political parties in this House are nevertheless admitting that we cannot continue this way, then we need to agree on certain frameworks within which time it will take place, what financial resources we need to do in order for those who teach to be able to teach, because otherwise students will not be able to learn, etc. This requires a certain political agreement. If I look at the positions of the parties, the situation is nibin-nabin. The post-election position will show whether it is the majority that is ready to take this step in the future. Then why are we doing this, why are we doing this? Ladies and gentlemen, who find that this step should not be taken! Look at the situation today. This has been said by previous speakers and has been discussed more and more in the debate rounds in recent weeks. In my articles, I have pointed out mostly the economic side. The other language population is not in the Estonian-language information room under equal conditions of competition. It's inevitable. They do not speak Estonian; they cannot even apply for certain jobs. This is a reality, let alone that we are in different information rooms, different social spaces, different cultural spaces. We cannot even get together because we do not have a point of contact, there is no common language space. I think it makes sense that we are not talking about schools today, we are talking about kindergartens. I've been asked, "Sven, are you ready to have your child in the same class as your Russian family name and Russian speaking child? ' Of course I am. What does it matter if it's Sidorov or Sester? Seriously. You can't look by the last names at which school one or the other... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U132	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U133	You can't use your last name by deciding which school your child attends. I understand that the transition cannot take place in one year. It's not possible, it's just not possible. We do not have teachers today in order to teach the required level in Estonian. If we simply make a decision by order, then it is very likely that this will happen, as Helir-Valdor has described in his earlier articles, that at some point the whole class might begin to suffer, because one person or another will be helped. So we have to think about it in a complex way. But today we cannot say that this issue is not topical. This issue is really topical. So once again, I would like to thank everyone involved in this debate. I also hope that Mr Jürgen Ligi will be more committed to content in the future, not to this form, to who started when, which date began and how much he talked about, but to talk about how we can go forward together, what our common experiences are, what our common goals are, and how to actually implement them after the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U134	A procedural remark first from the President of the House: Aadu Black used the speech of the Centre Party Group, and Oudekki Loone used the speech of the Oudekki Lone. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U135	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, who are in the Chamber! Hopefully, some more will look at the picture on the monitor somewhere. I want to talk about experience. There are few people in this hall from Ida-Virumaa, and even fewer people who have attended an Estonian-language school there. I am, and my colleague Aivar Surva is. Our school, which was one of the oldest schools in the region, has now changed. I don't know if I should say he's a bilingual school. No, he's an Estonian-speaking school. However, in the first grade, half the children come from Russian-speaking families and half of Estonian-speaking families. At one point these children will learn together, when children from Russian families have learned Estonian. Our whole school dances folk dances, goes to choirs. This is an Estonian school, so that a large proportion of students come from Russian families. Why am I saying this? But because, over and over, I get the feeling that people are talking about things and circumstances that are not exactly known or known. Russian-language children study in Estonian school and not only in Kohtla-Järve, but also in Jõgeval, Tallinn, everywhere. For some reasons, there are also situations where there is simply no Russian-language school and they go to Estonian-language school. It hasn't caused a big yell or a big fuss. In Tallinn, for some reason, it does occasionally, more by politicians, but a little later. Then there's kids who go to a immersion school. Maybe a lot of people don't know, but some Russian parents don't want to put kids in a immersion school. There are very strange and interesting reasons for this. One is that for some reason it is believed that if you put a child in an Estonian-language school, his Russian cultural background will be preserved, but if you put it in a language immersion school, it will not be preserved. Or the notion that the level of language acquired there is too weak. Then a lot of kids go to Russian school. Which choice is specifically made depends very much on the family, but unfortunately there are also certain patterns. In addition to the so-called geographical opportunities, whether or not there is a school, this is also linked to the level of education of parents. And there are also political reasons, there are ignorance and political exploitation, in some cases, I would say, even criminal exploitation because of political games. What is lacking in those children who go to Russian-speaking school or, unfortunately, sometimes in poor quality immersion classes, not being able to understand the Estonian language, and why their further course of life may not be as good as it might be? Why can't they learn Estonian properly in a situation where it could be possible, and why don't they come to an Estonian-language school? The reason is simple in Ida-Virumaa: there are little schools in Estonian. Indeed, there is a risk that if too many Russian-speaking children come to school, the Estonian language will disappear or Estonian parents will fear that it will adversely affect culture. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U136	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U137	This needs to be dealt with, and parents need to be talked about and taken into account. As I said, half the kids at my school are Russian-speaking, no more wanting to take. There'd be visitors, but I just don't want to take any more. But there is, in my opinion, a clear signal from politicians that one minute, however, we need to start going to a school in Estonian. One minute the Russian school disappears like this. Let us be honest, the Estonian state is unable to maintain bilingual school systems, to prepare teachers for Russian-speaking schools as well. The situation with teachers in Russian-speaking schools is actually worse than in Estonian-speaking schools; there is a greater shortage of teachers. We may ask what happens to these existing Russian-speaking teachers. They have a chance, too. I am convinced that if the parents agree and the children agree, it is natural that a Russian child will also learn his or her native language and his or her culture. Why not, as our laws really do, that if there are enough interested people and the municipality has the will to learn Finnish, Swedish or German, you can offer your children their mother tongue to study. So there are teaching opportunities. Such methodologies and solutions must certainly be flexible, but this signal is needed, will is needed. Sadness is about it, and the reason why this dispute is here is because some municipalities are fighting it for their lives. Some of the municipalities that are run, yes, mostly one party, the leaders of the Centre Party. There is a will, and I would say that Russian parents have more will than they want to admit. But give it a signal and get busy, intensely. I think that really, was what were, were the circumstances, were so-called perceptions, but there's no point in digging in the past anymore, would do the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-13_U138	There is no further wish for negotiations. Thursday's session is adjourned. See you soon! Good luck in work and personal life! Closure of the sitting at 12.48 p.m.
