ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, After all, we are always pleased when we have reason to quote the President of the Republic of Estonia, either in substance or in form. That's why I'm starting again, and I'm starting like this: good morning, dear Riigikogu! The Tuesday session of the VIIIth plenary session will begin, as usual, by handing over drafts and enquiries. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U2	Dear Riigikogu! On behalf of the seven representatives of the Free Party, I will hand over an inquiry aimed at our Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Mailis Reps. The inquiry concerns the completion of the training of sign language interpreters at the University of Tartu. A little background, too. In 2007, a language law was adopted, which says that sign language has the same status as a national language. This meant that nearly 1,500 deaf people were given the right to use Estonian sign language for business and teaching and communication. In order to comply with the Act, the University of Tartu started teaching sign language in 2006. Today we know that sign language interpreters' curriculum will be finally closed by 2020. Yes, the proportion of sign - language deaf people is not very high in our society, but the problem of this decision is very high. This is a direct course of cancer, which is not in line with the idea set out in our constitution, the objectives of the labour force reform, nor with the agreement reached between the University and the Ministry of Education and Research that it is this educational institution that is responsible for the curriculum of Estonian language and culture, which includes the study of sign language interpreters. You could say in a claw, "What's that? " Let them read it from our mouths? ' But if you tried to close your ears right now and read from my mouth, how much would you understand? The other option is, of course, that we all learn sign language. But it doesn't seem very reasonable or logical. We are now asking three questions about how the state and the Ministry of Education and Research intend to move forward. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. Its further processing is carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Please check your presence! 91 members of the Riigikogu will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U4	Today's first item is the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Accompanied by the Riigikogu members Jaak Madison, Artur Talvik, Jaanus Karilaidi, Toomas Pauri and Martin Helme on the claims of the clients of North-Estonian Bank of Share and Baltic Ühispank relating to the accounts frozen in the former foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union, the determination and payment of real financial compensation by the Republic of Estonia' (515 OE). Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Artur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U5	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. For me, the draft law 515 is one of the most important draft laws in its composition, and I will explain to you why. In my opinion, with this bill, we want to tell the people of Estonia that we do not agree with the susserisation of a higher state power. We do not agree that state power can afford to engage in criminal activity, and we want to condemn it morally. For me, this bill is also important because we all know that the 'Danske Bank scandal' is in the air. In my opinion, the conduct of state authority has led to an affair with the VEB Fund so far that a big affair with Danske Bank has also become possible. We wonder sometimes why all sorts of strange schemes and strange machinations are being attempted in Estonian business culture, but we do not think that business culture tolerates this because the higher state power has promised itself similar machinations and similar unfair transactions. It is said that the VEB Fund affair is a very complicated story and that very few people understand what it is. I would argue with that. It is still the case that certain entrepreneurs' money was saved in the early 1990s by the Estonian kroon and the Estonian banking system, but that money was basically stolen from these entrepreneurs. At this point, I would like to quote the lawyer Lasse Lehist, who prepared a legal assessment of the National Audit Office for the audit of the VEB Fund. He has said: 'All this defence tactical state has been built on the fact that Russia took money away from the bank's customers. Russia did not take the money from the bank's customers, Russia took the money from the two banks specifically, and then the two banks took the money from their customers with the help of Eesti Pank and through the decision of the Riigikogu at the time. This is where the responsibility of the Estonian state comes from, when the Estonian state legalised the bank robbery in its time. By "bank robbery," we usually mean robbing money from a bank, this is where the bank robbed money from its clients, but it's a good word to use here. If the state of Estonia legalised it with the decision of the Riigikogu in 1993, the state must also be responsible and compensate for these consequences. ' I am convinced, however, that compensating for these consequences, whatever the way it will be, is by chewing through one part of this rope. We still have the question, who were the main architects of the VEB Foundation schemes, let the real architects forgive me for using this word in this context! In the meantime, what was done for $32 million was taken out of Vnešekonombank using very interesting schemes. I will conclude my short speech by quoting the manager of AS Saare Kalur Tiit Sarapuu. I recall that Saare Kalur and Tiit Sarapuu are among those who could receive this compensation. Tiit Sarapuu said: 'I do not expect the state to pay us this money immediately. May it be done within 10 years or be replaced by other assets. Let a letter of honor be given to all shareholders for saving Estonian banking, rather than calling them speculators. ' So, once again, when we come back to the beginning, we have an excellent opportunity to morally condemn and do so all of our previous sluggish administration! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U6	The round of questions will be opened by the March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U7	Thank you. You were chairman of the Corruption Commission a while back. I assumed that if you came to the remote today, you'd be acting like a real-life person and once in private business, you'd be presenting solutions, moves, research. We were taught such a thing at the university that the classic money laundering scheme consists of a maximum of 32 courses. Was 32 moves too much or too little for you? Or did someone stop you from analyzing those 32 moves?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U8	These 32 moves have been analysed, for example, in the audit of the National Audit Office, which was also mentioned at this very remote point, when we had a debate on a national issue of major importance on this subject, that basically, at every point that was brought out in that audit, someone should have been brought to the court owl. There's been a lot of analysis of these moves. Today we are talking about moral compensation. It has also been a tactical move to try to make the discussion of the VEB Fund as confusing as possible, as incomprehensible to ordinary citizens. Then it's like things are all right. In fact, there is nothing very confusing here and may not have to analyse all of these 32 steps. We understand much faster that on several and several points, and this is not only said by me, but is also said by the National Audit Office's audit, for example, that there has been criminal activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U9	Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U10	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! The critics of the bill claim that this draft decision is intended to return money to speculators. Please, take that fear down!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U11	Yeah, I don't think these people are speculators at all. Firstly, they have been the subject of several judgments, and they have also won these cases. In short, they have acted honestly. Everyone has engaged in important economic activities at the time. If we wanted to say that these enterprising people are speculators, we could say the same about everyone today, I don't know, start-up entrepreneurs. They dealt with the things that were important to the Estonian economy in their time. And I stress, they were exporting. And when we talk about exports, exports are one of the very important foundations of the economy. So I certainly don't think it's speculators.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U12	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U13	Thank you. Dear Arthur! Everyone in this hall tonight is expensive, isn't it? [[Talvik laughs.]] I'm somewhat shocked. Your speech was short, but you could say even less. I don't know what to ask. It looks like you're either hiding something or you're afraid to say something. We are calling, through you, for some to be rehabilitated, for others to be condemned. Is that the result of the work? Is that all you can say about this whole thing? And one particular question, however, is: when will this report by the Special Investigator of the Ministry of Justice come, and how can this affect the decision of which we have the first reading of the draft in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U14	I'll start from the back. Special Investigator's report is in the Justice Department. As far as I know, it has been presented already in January. As far as I am aware, I have not personally read it, but it has also been referred to as 'the sense of justice'. And hurting the sense of justice must be compensated. This report also deals with these amounts and questions whether these amounts should be exactly like this, but in principle it says that the draft decision should be supported. Now, when I come to the beginning of your question, I recall the debate on the important national issue that we had here. I could read the report by Rein Järveille, which was very thorough and which I am referring to. I'd sign it 100%. It makes no sense for me to start reading it to you again, but the content of his speech is exactly what I mean as the initiator of one of these drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U15	Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! I am simply pointing out that a few minutes ago, the Legal Affairs Committee received the Justice Department's opinion on this draft. The Ministry of Justice considers that § 65 (16) of the Constitution does not give the Riigikogu the right to decide in this way. He may not make a decision to pay compensation from the state's income, as this provision allows the Riigikogu to decide on other matters of state life. It would also be contrary to the principle of separation of powers laid down in § 4 of the Constitution. The Constitution sets limits to the competence of the Riigikogu to decide on the matters which, according to the Constitution itself, are assigned to the other institutions. All the costs of the state are to be entered in the budget, determined by the decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U17	I am not familiar with this opinion, and the current brief review of what has come to you from the Committee on Legal Affairs does not give me the opportunity to find an answer to this immediately. But I want to say two things. The Riigikogu has the right to decide on the state budget. We are not imposing an obligation directly on Eesti Pank, but we are talking about the fact that Eesti Pank's profits, which will come into the state budget anyway, are the source of which compensation would be paid. So I don't see any contradiction here. And once again, I would like to stress that by approving this draft, we will make a fundamental decision, a moral decision, giving a very strong assessment of the criminal behaviour of the state power in previous years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U18	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U19	Thank you. Good performer! During this membership, this issue has also been discussed here. And I'd really like to ask what we've actually come to. The previous composition also discussed this, and I would say, however, that quite a lot of detail was reached. At the moment, this issue seems to be very general. Do we really have to deal only with compensation, or do the Estonian people still want to get closer to the truth? We compensate, but we still don't know exactly what the background is. How can it go deeper?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U20	Uh! Its content has indeed been dealt with a great deal, and I would like to emphasise once again that the debate on a crucial national issue, which took place here in May, was an improvement on content. The report by Mr Järveille was a very substantive one. If you are saying that we should investigate some more things, according to Estonian law, several so-called crimes that have occurred at that time are now obsolete. It is difficult to make legal assessments in this respect. That is why our draft is more of a moral assessment of all the previous acts of state authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U21	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U22	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Yeah, it seems like such an eternal song, and I don't know what a positive ending it could be. But I've heard that Special Investigator Kaido Kama's report has been ready since January, but I don't think you've read it. Why? Is that so, and why can't we read it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U23	Thank you for your question. That should be asked by Minister Reinsalu why it has been kept in the files and why it has not been shown to us. The Ministry ordered this report. And I would not call it a report, frankly, I think it is rather an opinion. And since the Ministry ordered this opinion, it should indeed be addressed to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U24	Olga Ivanova, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U25	Thank you. Dear Artur Talvik! When we talk about compensation for crimes committed by the state, so I understand your wording, I immediately remember the manifestation of injustice such as forced tenants. Why don't we talk about people being wronged in the early 1990s just being evicted from their apartments or their houses? Today we are not talking about compensating them for anything. What we are talking about is that we are going to compensate businesses, businessmen, the losses that were made to them in their time. Am I right?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U26	Thank you for your question. Indeed, injustice arose in the process of privatisation. And I would remind you that when Estonia joined the European Convention on Human Rights, there was also a reservation on privatisation issues, noting that some people might be unfair. I don't know exactly all the circumstances of the forced tenants' problem. As far as I know, however, some kind of compensation has been paid by the state to the forced tenants. In short, I wouldn't put these two problems on a pretty equal stick, but I suggest you continue to deal with the subject of the forced tenants.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U27	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U28	Thank you. Mr. Talvik! Olga Ivanova was gratefully reading out a legal assessment. When I listen to you all the time, I hear that some crimes have been committed somewhere, that the Estonian state must be assessed as essentially a criminal. However, the legal expert report says that you have submitted an illegal law that is contrary to the Constitution and at least two other laws, the adoption of which, in my opinion, requires at least 51 votes: the State Budget Act and the Eesti Pank Act. Do you not see a contradiction in this moral pinch: anonymously accusing others of criminal offences, crime, but you yourself are at the remote with an illegal initiative? Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U29	Thank you for your question. First of all, I want to say that I heard about this opinion here five minutes ago. I can't comment on that because I haven't thought about it. There have been many different opinions throughout this VEB Foundation saga. Those who defend what has happened to the VEB Fund and want to hide it, like somewhere, have argued with all kinds of constitutional injustices and so on. And the so-called victims of the VEB Fund claim that the Constitution has been opposed to several issues. So this argument may continue. It is my call to compensate the victims for what has happened and to bring it down like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U30	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I spent a quarter of an hour thinking about what it reminds me of, and I remembered, it's the same famous highly likely. You're talking about some crime that's been committed, and you're calling for judgment, but you're avoiding the name of anyone. There were only two names: one is a minister, and the other is Rein Järvell, right? And that's it, the only people who are involved in this process. Dear colleague, we were expecting something entirely different! Personally, I was expecting something more constructive and interesting than what has already been said and what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U32	Thank you, my dear colleague or my dear colleague, as we say today. I understand you want to drag me into such an eternal fight between the Reform Party and the Central Party. I'm not going with it. I specifically said that these presentations, which were made here during the debate on a crucial national issue, showed very clearly who should be looked at. They said names, too. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U33	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U34	Thank you. In this remote control, the VEB Fund has been talked about more meaningfully and inconclusively. You call all this saga all right, let's not specify anything. But you also talked about morality, and the morals of society are expressed by law. You're on the remote with illegal law, says experts, and there's a moral dilemma here anyway. But now try to explain what kind of crime you're talking about! I know of one case where there is a clear violation of the law: one signature was signed at Eesti Pank in 1997. That's what I know. It's been discussed. What crimes do you know exactly? There are fictional estimates, but what other crimes are you talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U35	I am talking, first and foremost, about the funds being taken away from businesses to save the public financial system. I think it's a crime or, as Lasse Lehis calls it, a bank robbery. We may agree that if these two banks had been bankrupt at the time, the Estonian kroon would have been in a very difficult position. As an Estonian state, as a financial system, we would have been in a very difficult position with our new crown. If such a thing was done, it would require compensation, and non-compensation could certainly be regarded as a crime. That's another thing. The Reform Party and Mr. Ligi are trying to pin everything on Vahur Kraft. Vahur Kraft was just one of the characters who took orders from the top and did it at the risk of his reputation. And he is also the only one who has taken responsibility from high officials or who has, in a sense, borne it. He's had to leave as a bank manager because of this act. But it's only part of the saga. I also want to recall Ardo Hansson, who has understood how much bad things have been done in Eesti Pank during this period, and has apologized to the Estonian people for this. This was the first step in moral judgment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U36	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U37	Honourable waitress! This Riigikogu speaking board has already suffered quite a lot and must have suffered a lot more. You have said quite several times that the Estonian state has acted criminally. However, my understanding is that the answers to the previous questions have not come out of the answers, which is what the crime was all about and who identified it as a crime. In our society, there is still the presumption of innocence, and I think a crime can only be judged by judgment. I am asking whether the assessment that the Estonian state has acted criminally or that someone has acted criminally is your subjective assessment, or whether there is still a judgment here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U38	Yes, the interim decision of the district court also says that it is necessary to compensate for what has been done, that it was a 'joke scheme', which in 2012 the Riigikogu decided that claims will be compensated for by the non-existent assets of the VEB Fund. It was a douche scheme, and the court has said it's been a criminal act. And so it is! I kind of understand the behaviour of the government back then. After all, attempts were made to save the Estonian kroon. But all the further slippers, including the fact that someone was found able to take $32 million out of Vnešekonombank, come on, if it's not a crime, then what we're talking about, all right??
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U39	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U40	Thank you. I'd like to pick up where my honourable colleague, Jüri Jaanson, graduated. As a citizen, I really get confused about the definition of a crime. Who's the one who can say you're a criminal? However, when I hear what you're saying, I sense that you have a desire to bring someone into a particularly bad light. I wanted Artur Talvik to continue in the Free Party, but it's a wishful thinking that probably won't come true anymore. Now I want to ask you this: do our citizens at one point have to take into account that once they have passed the courts, the Riigikogu can take a decision on them? It is not a question of who, but I ask who, according to which laws we have. And shouldn't you, as the main rapporteur here today, take into account that Olga Ivanova has put forward a clause, so you are proposing to interrupt the reading of the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U41	What I want to say is that in 2012, the Riigikogu made a decision on compensation, but it was a decision on the hockey scheme. All those who made this decision knew that there were no assets in the VEB Fund. Yet, these assets tried to compensate for what had been done. But the Riigikogu can review its decisions, especially with a new composition. That's normal behavior. We're going over this decision right now, that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U42	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. The presentation by the committee will be made by Jaanus Karilaid as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U43	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I have to be a Commission waitress, but perhaps, in the context of the questions, I can also give answers to the questions that remained in the air and give them, like outside the framework of the Commission, personally when this opportunity arises. A Commission meeting was held on 11 June to discuss this draft. Attorney General Indrek Leppik and Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu were also invited. I will now give a brief overview of what took place in the committee meeting. Artur Talvik introduced the content and objectives of the draft. Valdo Randpere wanted to know how much money was needed. Indrek Leppik spoke about how this sum was calculated and justified it. Valdo Randpere was interested in the amount that lawyers, politicians, or other interested parties would receive. Arthur Talvik found the Randper question to be malicious. Indrek Leppik added that lawyers are paid for their work, but the Bar Act prohibits the content of the customer's agreement from being published without the customer's written consent. Valdo Randpere explained that his question was due to the fact that an offer had been made to Siim Kallas so that Siim Kallas would be a part of it if he could get the money from the VEB Fund. According to Valdo Randpere, Siim Kallas refused this offer. However, there are rumors that some of the biders are still part of the process. In addition, Commissioner Valdo Randpere noted that the formula proposed in the draft could be flawed. Peep Aru referred to the statement in the draft explanatory memorandum that the implementation of the decision would not entail additional costs for the state, as the liabilities would be met at the expense of Eesti Pank's profits. He pointed out that Eesti Pank often allocates part of its profits to the state budget and this allocation to the budget would simply be smaller. Thus, the financial impact on the state budget is obvious: it would be a downfall. Arthur Talvik admitted that there is an effect. At the same time, Eesti Pank should compensate for the consequences of its failure and its errors. Peep Aru asked whether the initiators of the draft had examined whether the decision could be contrary to the law of Eesti Pank and the basic law of the state budget. Valdo Randpere pointed out that according to the Eesti Pank Act, Eesti Pank manages, uses and possesses its assets independently. If this principle is to be amended, it must be done by the law amending the Eesti Pank Act, it cannot be done by processing this draft decision. Arthur Talvik disagreed. Peep Aru also wanted to assess whether the draft decision 515 complied with the basic law on the state budget. The rapporteur considered that it can be concluded from the questions raised at the meeting that the question now is not whether or not to pay compensation, but how to pay it. He pointed out that amendments to the draft could be proposed and that the payment could be clarified. Indrek Leppik said that two groups should not be confused: one is made up of Estonian commercial banks whose money was stuck in correspondent accounts at Vnešekonombank, and the other is made up of persons who had a claim against Estonian banks. As a result of the decision of the Riigikogu in 1993, all these claims were consolidated into the VEB Fund. Valdo Randpere asked where the responsibility of Eesti Pank came from. Indrek Leppik found that this was the responsibility of the Estonian state, because the district court concluded that the Estonian state intervened in private relations, which means that it took money away from the customers of commercial banks, and thus saved commercial banks, stabilising the banking system. This is why the Estonian state is responsible. The responsibility of Eesti Pank is a more emotional issue, because as a result of the systemic activities of Eesti Pank, a significant part of the sums left on the correspondent accounts of Estonian banks managed to be recovered from Russia, which did not reach the real sufferers. The Commission also took procedural decisions. First of all, the proposal to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 11 September 2018 was for 6 members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, 3 against and 2 abstentions. The Committee on Legal Affairs also proposed that the first reading be closed by 6 members of the Commission, 3 against and 2 abstentions. The deadline for amendments could be set at 4 p.m. on 25 September for 6 members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, 3 against and 2 abstentions. Finally: appoint Jaanus Karilaid as rapporteur by 6 members of the Commission, against 3, with no abstentions 2. That is the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U44	Thank you very much, dear waitress. I'll check it out just in case. Is the deadline for submitting amendments 25 September at 4 p.m. or 5.15 p.m., as in my papers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U45	It's 4:00. September 25th at 4:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U46	Thank you! Now the questions. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U47	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I repeatedly asked for expert advice on this draft. Finally, at my insistence, the commission turned to the Ministry of Justice and also to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu. I just heard the answers have arrived. Would you be good enough to refer a little bit to what these basic positions are?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U48	Good colleague Peep, you were a little wrong. You were mostly right, but you were a little wrong. I would like to begin by recalling, then, how the expert opinion on this draft was collected. I can't refer everything today because the Committee on Legal Affairs just got those opinions, but I'm going to make some generalisations. First of all, at the beginning of this year, I prepared a letter as chairman of the committee to the Minister of Justice, where I asked for a position on this draft. Urmas Reinsalu has replied as follows: 'The Ministry of Justice intends to draw up a report to deal with this issue, including an analysis of the issues referred to in your letter. In order to ensure a comprehensive and comprehensive report, I will soon appoint a special investigator. The report, together with the relevant conclusions and proposals, will undoubtedly be submitted to the Riigikogu when it is completed. ' It arrived in our mailbox this morning. Peep Aru's proposal was to take a separate expert opinion on this draft. Through the Office's Analysis Department, such an offer was made to universities. It was accepted by Professor Lauri Mälksoo of the University of Tartu, and his reply came. We have asked more specific questions. Both documents have not yet been discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs; we will discuss them after the first reading. But I can already say, without discussing it in committee, that it is very likely that a decision may be contrary to certain basic laws. This may be a contradiction, but at the same time, Lauri Mälksoo says that this contradiction can be overcome by the amendments to be made between the first and second readings. And I don't know, so far, I'm amazed by the statement of some wise guys. I see them talking so emotionally on this subject, but no bill that comes into this hall is complete or perfect at the beginning. That's why there's a lot of readings to make the bill better. However, I would like to pass on one opinion from Special Investigator Kaido Kama on this draft: one possibility of remedying the damage done by the State could be symbolic compensation for property, based on, for example, the nominal value of the remaining claims, or public recognition and apology of the errors made by the State. And he also quotes the manager of AS Saare Kalur Tiit Sarapuu: 'I do not expect the state to pay us this money immediately. /----/ May a letter of honor be given to all shareholders for saving Estonian banking, rather than calling them speculators. ' But in response to this Peep Aru question, I say that the draft is very likely to be contrary to at least two basic laws, but, as Mr Mälksoo said, they are not insurmountable contradictions; they can be improved by making proposals. The Committee on Legal Affairs will undoubtedly analyse and draw its own conclusions at its next sittings. If there are errors, they must be corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U49	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U50	Thank you. Honourable performer! Today we are talking again about the VEB Fund. We have unexplored secret rouble sales to Chechen structures, we are not fully aware of Siim Kallas' 10 million affair, we have tens of thousands of apartments taken from forced tenants illegally, violently. Now 150 billion of Danske Bank's black money has been transferred from Estonia and so on. Shouldn't the Committee on Legal Affairs finally start discussing the functioning of the Estonian state in 27 years, the behaviour of its various governments and Riigikogu configurations? All these things have been decided by voting in the Riigikogu and approving governments, but you use the words 'criminal' or 'allegedly criminal' all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U51	That's all, Heimar, political questions. And if anyone thinks they're seeing injustice, they have to define it, come to the relevant committee and get on with the political agreement. I agree that many of the questions you mentioned deserve a more active political debate. With the draft on the VEB Fund, I am not here alone or alone with Artur Talvik. Behind us is a broader political will. If I recall, five of the six political parties agreed to the debate on a very important national issue on this subject, only one party disagreed for some reason and claimed that you were dealing with nonsense, criticised everyone behind it, calling the parties involved speculators and corrupts, and simply trying to kill the debate out somehow. This debate has still taken place at the will of the political majority. If, on the issues you mentioned, Heimar, we achieve a sense of association with two or three or four parties, we will also find solutions for how to proceed. And money laundering is also a matter of the Committee on Legal Affairs, i.e. parliamentary supervision. We have had many hearings, we have done them on the work of the Financial Supervision Authority, on the work of the Financial Intelligence Unit. On 8 October 2009, we have proposed that Jürgen Ligi, chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, should participate in the hearing and provide answers as to why no threat was seen or heard, and how it was possible that such a destructive activity of Estonia could even take place. So we are acting as a force, but the injustice known throughout society cannot be put on the agenda at the same time by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U52	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U53	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs! I emphasize the word 'right'. When we discussed sending this draft to first reading, I referred to and our colleagues also referred to a very likely contradiction with quite a number of laws. And as we have now come to light from your little round answer, we may well be right. How does the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs feel that the Committee on Legal Affairs will send a draft to the first reading without prior examination? In my opinion, this is a contradiction to the nature of the Committee on Legal Affairs. If we had done this before the examination, perhaps there would have been only one or two votes in favour instead of six votes in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U54	Thank you. However, I am saying that this kind of political excitement is too much right now. It is also possible to improve the quality of the draft between the first and second readings. If five Members... If Jürgen Ligi is bothering me, if I answer a colleague, it's rude. I want to say that if five people did this draft and if there are inaccuracies, we will be able to correct those mistakes until 25 September. That's today's assessment. Whether the bill has to be presented in perfect form immediately, or whether there may be some errors inside it, it's like a taste issue. There are opportunities in the parliamentary procedure to improve the drafts, which is why we have several readings. And I see that if we have a political desire, it is possible to move forward with this bill and make it more of a quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U55	If a member of the Riigikogu disturbed a waitress, the manager would make a comment. If a member of the Riigikogu interferes with another colleague, there is little reason to comment. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U56	He interrupted the questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Jaanus Karilaid! Perhaps you would thus appreciate with caution and with the eyes of a specialist that, if this bill were really to be brought into line with all the little basic laws that it is in conflict with, such as the Constitution and other non-essential acts such as these, if it were to be brought into line with them, what will be left of this bill after the title and in its amended form?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U58	I mentioned that in my report. I deliberately quoted the Special Rapporteur, Kaido Kama. One proposal on how this draft could be improved or improved is that mistakes are publicly recognised or even apologized. That's one way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U59	A procedural question, Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U60	Yeah, I have a procedural question too. I'll make sure I'm followed by Peter Ernits, who has resigned to the Centre Party. Is that really possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U61	The board fixes the status that is now and now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U62	He's still a member of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U63	Peter Ernits, a representative of the Central Party faction, according to the tabloid. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U64	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! And thank my colleague Randpere for his concern. But my question is that there are only two weeks left for amendments. Summer and spring have passed since the Special Investigator's report was completed, and now the draft has to be brought into line with these two basic laws within a few weeks. Why has there been such a limp for so long? After all, we could have discussed the matter much earlier and calmly looked for ways to make the draft ready to be adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U65	From this question, I can only read the enthusiasm that the bill should have moved forward faster, more comprehensively and more time for it. And since the questioner himself has already moved on to another party, there is also a need for more political power to move forward faster with the subject. I did not just hear the call for us to act more quickly on this issue at the moment. I agree, we act, but it requires a political agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U66	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U67	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The question dates back a few years. Once upon a time, I explained the situation of the forced tenants of Prime Minister Clothing long and wide from this remote area and referred to the injustices they committed, the vile injustices, basically the insane repressions suffered by the forced tenants. I looked him right in the eyehole from three meters away, and I told him that if you couldn't do anything else, at least apologize to the forced tenants who have suffered injustice. That apology didn't come with any formula. Will there at least be an apology in this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U68	Yes, I think one of the peculiarities of the current government is that it dares to deal with the problems arising from the injustice done to the Estonian people. We do not sing the song that is sung by the Reform Party: everything is done perfectly and better than any of us can, we are the best artists in the management of the state... At least we have so much moaning in our heads that we can see that if something has been done wrong, we admit it and we are willing to make amends to the people. That is one of the principles of politics: one court must be corrected, not covered up, hidden, justified, admired. This is, above all, the political starting point for one of the largest opposition forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U69	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Indeed, morality and principles have changed. Let's do ten things and take six of them back, apologize. And then it seems to society that everything is very well. Instead, we could do four things right now. But you talk a lot about justice and justice. However, I get the impression that this is a very large political agreement, born on a number of principles and for some reason. Can you tell the honourable hall how many of those entrepreneurs who really lost their money are today's demanders? I therefore wonder how many of them are actually buying-in claims. And if you are talking about justice, if there is something to be compensated for as a result of your work, will these real money recipients also receive part of the so-called money that has been bought up as claims? The words'speculative' and'specuulant' are like taboos in the current context, but it has been quite common to call claims collectors speculatively acting because they do not follow any legal approach. What we are seeing now is that the political lobby has brought this debate into this Chamber, not the court. This is the most worrying place for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U71	Yeah, yeah! I, too, am taking the view today that we should complement and treat equally all those who have suffered damage, who have been unfairly treated, not just those who are currently affected by the draft. Since you also asked for a bill on subjects, I would still read out who's behind this so that you can understand whether they are some speculators or real victims. The draft concerns five undertakings. Akke AS, AS Tartu Lihakombinaat, AS Saare Kalur and AS Pärnu Kalur Holding are all owners of the original certificate. This has been clearly confirmed by Rein Järveill, the liquidator of the VEB Fund, who has issued information to these persons on the basis of a request, in which bank and how much money they were stuck. AS A.O.Imbie has obtained a certificate from AS Erkers. The latter is A.O.Imbi, together with the company that has carried out fuel transactions in common commercial interests. Fuel transactions were carried out through the Latvian State and Latvian company, and the money withdrawn was the financing of A.O.Imb's transaction based on common commercial interests. In essence, A.O.Imbie lost his money. But yes, also on the basis of the proposal of the Special Rapporteur, Kaido Kama, all certificate holders should be treated equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U72	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U73	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Jaanus or dear Jaanus, we have a precious day here today! In the interests of legal clarity, I would like to say that we also need to apologise to those from whom property was unlawfully transferred and who did not have the opportunity to recover it. It was known that decolonisation and desovetisation were not carried out in Estonia, which resulted in the privatisation of assets that were not returned to legitimate owners, by people who were the agents of the occupying state and who could not be legitimate subjects. What I'm saying is, when it gets bigger to apologize. But let's stick to the subject today! I understand you have a group of pressure to do this. But yes, some simply failed to privatise illegally disposed assets, and hence this great grudge. There was no question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U74	I took note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U75	Since Valdo Randpere's second speech was a procedural question, please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U76	Thank you. As early as the spring, when this bill was being discussed here and was an important national issue in the debate, I also took up this issue from the point of view that the current government has the urge to bring the occupation losses to the hands of the Republic of Estonia. The Republic of Estonia did not occupy itself. First you wanted to pay off the occupation damage to the churches, now you're on the next piece. Again, the Estonian state should pay for the damage to the occupation. Jaanus, was the Estonian state occupied and who did it? Can You Answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U77	I'm surprised you still haven't passed high school. I didn't believe you, Valdo. But maybe you were once given a different kind of diploma at the ECB. The Estonian state was re-established in 1991 and in 1993 the VEB Fund was formed by decision of the Riigikogu. Then another decision was made: according to my memory, in 1994 or 1995, the government made the decision by which it saved these commercial banks. Was he also involved in the issue of the Soviet Union? The government made a decision, and it already shows that the question of the legitimacy of the state and some contradiction between the ESSR or, let us say, this Soviet republic is malicious. It's arbitrary incriminating, which some comrades have been trying to do here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U78	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Just in case, as this is a first reading, the representatives of the political groups will get the floor. Jürgen Ligi, Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I believe that the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee has never been as low as it is now. I'm starting with a bribe being offered to extort that money from the state. That fact came through here today. When I saw the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee with the briber eating in this diner, I thought something was going on. And there was a short time before this bill came up. The bribe was the proposal that we split the money, you pay for it. The second moral aspect, of course, is that the State is irreconcilably held responsible for the damage caused by the occupation. Okupant took advantage of the money of Estonian companies, using his own currency monopoly. Just took it off! And now we are fighting among ourselves, pointing our fingers at each other that it is as if the Estonian state has committed crimes. Unindicted, such words are tossed! This is also done by the Committee on Legal Affairs, without any legal qualifications. While this money was frozen at the beginning of 1992, I was an expert in privatisation and I know how these state companies were valued. They looked at their balance sheet, assessed their assets and the return on their assets, and then proposed a starting price. We are talking about five state-owned companies now, and I stress this, who were all privatized, knowing that their balance sheet has worthless VEB Fund certificates. The privatisation expert would have said that their market value was zero, they could not be priced at the beginning. If anyone wants to pay more for them, they can pay more. These companies were privatized with the knowledge that the money was in the teeth of the wolf and did not enter the privatisation price in essence. I have also dealt much with the area of reorganisation, including banking reorganisation. In Estonia and elsewhere in Europe, I have come across this and I can assure you that the simplest or most common scheme is that the hopeless assets and liabilities are separated from the whole part of the bank. They will continue to be dealt with, but they will not be allowed to infect the entire banking system. And so it was done with the VEB Fund: hopeless securities and claims were raised to the VEB Fund. And that was the Riigikogu's decision. None of us here made this decision to my knowledge, but the Riigikogu made it and it undoubtedly saved Estonian banking. Now, another moral problem ran through here. The initiators speak unscrupulously of a crime that is not specifically mentioned. The Estonian state has done so much harm, they keep talking about it, but they themselves are breaking the law. The Committee on Legal Affairs states that the draft decision of the Riigikogu can be higher than the higher-ranking laws, the Constitution and other laws requiring at least 51 votes in favour, currently the Eesti Pank Act and the State Budget Act. It's just we're in power, we make this decision, we take this money and we share it. In fact, they are known that at least one of them has offered a bribe. Actually, I'm saying one word, 'at least', is off. Are these people speculators? The thing is, in the financial world, that's what they call dealing in securities. This is not Soviet-era SORVVO qualification; it is such speculation that we take a risk in our own name and, if we succeed, we make money, if we fail, we lose money. Exactly what those five companies did. All of them bought these securities after freezing that money, all knowing that this asset had no value. And they were privatized with that knowledge. This is speculation in the sense that it is hoped that the money will be recovered. Since then, speculation has been put forward in the hope that perhaps, through the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, there will also be a solution that maybe the state will pay off. I think that we do not have such a moral right, either from the point of view of occupation or from the point of view that these people knew exactly what they were acquiring. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U80	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U81	There has been uncondemned talk about this, Artur Talvik, that Eesti Pank, Ardo Hansson, has apologized for all the bad things that Eesti Pank has done through the ages. And he said he did a lot of bad things, that's what he said. Ardo Hansson has apologized for making false statements and honoured him for doing so. But these false statements consisted of only one signature signed in 1997 on a letter with only a date wrong. The date was wrong. It was an instrument that eventually got the money from Russia, but it was wrong about the date, probably knowingly. This person's name has come through here, but this person has nothing to do with the Reform Party, it was the then President of Eesti Pank. It is impertinent to associate Eesti Pank with statements that have not been made and with a party with which they do not have any connection. That's impudent! Leave Eesti Pank alone! Leave the Constitution, the law of 51 votes, and don't say that you're getting some kind of jock scheme here in a fair way, having power, and you can share the money by it! Do you have to compensate for the loss of that money? Once again, financial speculation is made at its own risk. Here, the state, the taxpayer, does not have to pay it back. He lost that money once before in the way that he received less money than privatisation. He's already got less money, and that's how the taxpayer paid for it. Someone's gotten the property cheaper. Perhaps a false speculation has been made, such as buying these papers at a price of 5 or 10% of the nominal value. And the story that Estonia took the money away is exactly the kind of occult talk that the Estonian state is guilty because it took the money away. No, the Estonian state did not take the money. The Estonian state saved the situation, saved the banking sector. And that's what it's all about! This is how banking is saved in the world. This is how the European Bank was rescued during the financial crisis. Even government bonds were written off because they were hopeless, but because of this, for example, the eurozone was stabilised and we all actually enjoy financial stability, including those who had to give up their claims. That is the financial economy, and the terms like speculation are not insulting anyone. However, the Estonian state has been insulted, claiming that the Estonian state has done a great deal of bad things, taking away what was actually taken by the Russian state. The word 'criminalities' has also been used anonymously as well as referring to its political opponents. It is vile because no politician has been able to control this process. None! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U82	Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group. Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, After the previous speaker, I must remind you that we had political debates here in May. We are currently discussing a rather specific draft decision with number 515. As the first words, I would like to say immediately that the Group of the Estonian Centre Party supports the completion of the first reading, but I would like to pay attention to some of the points that are in this draft. It would be good if, before the second reading and decision is taken, the Commission were to consider changing them. Item 1, compensation. The draft specifically mentions who is entitled to compensation. The compensation is paid, I quote: '... only for certificate holders who have benefited from the decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court of 22 October 2010 in the administrative case' and then the number of the decision. I have read the opinions of highly authoritative lawyers, one of whom I have with me in this Chamber, and in my opinion, this is a very convincing conclusion that this approach is unconstitutional. It cannot be limited to the five certificate holders alone; however, there was much more of them. That's the first thing we could discuss before we read the second one. And it would be good if it could be fixed. Point 2. As a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, I cannot agree in any way that the draft has not even approximated the amount that has to be paid out to compensate, after all, when this decision is adopted. Yes, here is a detailed description of the calculation procedure: 10%, 24 years, etc., you can look at it for yourself. Nevertheless, it is the money of our country, it cannot be written in this way in the form of a formula, it must be written as a specific amount. So, also from the point of view I was talking about in point 1, the commission could in any case take the view that it would be necessary to calculate and write down the actual amount of this sum. Point 3. Believe it or not, in this month's time, we'll get the draft state budget for next year and we'll discuss it momentarily. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I do not see any possibility that, if the decision can be reimbursed, it will come into effect next year. This would create enormous problems for us and for the Ministry of Finance, for the entire state budget. Therefore, my modest proposal is that once the decision on compensation is taken, it could become effective on 1 January 2020. The next Riigikogu must have enough time to prepare all necessary instruments. So much for this bill. Once again, it can be improved and supported by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. And now that my colleague Artur Talvik has come to the hall, I can also talk about the fourth point. Without her presence, I wouldn't have dared to do it. This is my personal line right now, I am not saying this as a representative of the group. There was this accusation: Artur said that I was trying to draw him into a fight between the Centre Party and the Reform Party. You know, Artur, I immediately remembered a case from World War II. Was it Rundstedt or Kesselring or Leeb or Manstein, I don't remember, but there was a German army general who was informed that he would be given four Romanian divisions to help him from the next day. And his face turned gloomy. He said, "Give me four more divisions from Germany," because I'm gonna need them to protect those four divisions. So, Arthur, don't you think it's worth something to drag you into a fight. Personally, I think that without you, we can do much better than with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U84	The President of the sitting has a question for the Chamber: do you hear the speaker well? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jaa!'???]] Do you hear me? Well, I thought we'd turn to the person who regulates the room's amplification. But if you think it's okay, maybe it's the conductor's blood vessels. Thank you! Mart Helme as representative of EKRE, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U85	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft that we are discussing today is not in compliance with the laws in force in Estonia. Among other things, it has been said that we have a presumption of innocence and therefore, as a result, no one can be condemned. I would like to make two comments on this. Firstly, there is no such thing as the presumption of concealment of a crime in society. Second, if King Solomon had been a lawyer, he would not have been famous as King Solomon. This bill has, above all, a moral dimension. This is the moral dimension that this bill bears: this bill wants justice, not so much maybe justice. And this moral dimension has gained more importance and meaning today than it was perhaps 10 to 15 years ago. Look at what has happened in the Republic of Estonia! We've fallen into the swamp of moral incompetence. In the end, it is unclear whether or not $10 million was stolen. It's unclear because we have a yokk-judge. It's unclear to us who stole the money from the VEB Fund, but it's clear that he stole 32 commas... a lot of it was... a million dollars of VEB Fund money. That money was taken out! That money went to somebody! The exterminator didn't take that money anywhere in the swamp or drown him in the forehead. It's clear as day! It's obvious that the money's been snatched! Read Toomas Ten's book about the VEB Fund, and there are all the names! Names have been given, documents have been filed, money has been shown, but where it ended up, that's what I don't know. But somewhere it came up. I don't think archaeologists will ever discover $32 million from somewhere inside the amphora. Somehow I don't believe that. And now, today, we see the Danske bank scandal rolling like a snowball, expanding like a snowball. There was a talk of seven to eight billion, which is also a lot of money, then there was a talk of 30 billion, which is already a lot of money, and now it has reached 150 billion. This is the volume of 15 Estonian state budgets. According to current data, the budget of the Estonian state has been washed in Danske Bank for 15 years. I'll tell you what. It's so much money, it's enough for everyone to smear, buy, shut their mouths to who's a hundred thousand, who's a million. It's bread money, change with that huge amount of money. And now I'm gonna say something that worries me the most. It's that we can see that the fingerprints of one power party are on all these things. One party that has been in power in Estonia for a long time, his fingerprints are on all these things. And every time these issues rise up, this party starts legal efforts to wipe these things out again. This has got to stop! Because if this thing does not end, there will be no moral healing in Estonia. Please understand this! There will be no moral healing, no liability, no stealing, no stealing, no lying, no forgery, no concealment of documents, no secrecy, it will continue. And this country of Estonia, I tell you, will not survive. No country that stays on the wrong will survive! That is why this draft is important, which is why some of our party members have signed it. And legal...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U86	Dear waitress, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U87	No, I'm almost done. Legal hocus pocus are secondary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U88	Thank you. Enn Meri on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U89	Ladies and gentlemen, At the risk of receiving a remark that I am speaking too briefly, I would like to say that when I examined the explanatory memorandum to this draft VEB Fund, it made me sad. So many things have been done wrong! And that is why the Free Party's view is that we support this proposal in principle, but maybe the sums could be symbolic, 10% or something like that can be discussed. That's all I want to say. Yeah, you can make comments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U90	Since there are no more requests for speech, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 515. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 25 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U91	Today's second item is the draft law amending the Holidays and Celebrations Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Krista Aru, Maire Aunaste, Monika Haukanõmme, Ain Lutsep, Enn Mere, Martin Helme, Laine Randjärve, Artur Talvik, Liina Kersna, Helmen Küti, Henn Põljaas, Uno Kaskpeiti and Raivo Põldaru. Krista Aru, member of the Riigikogu, will present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U92	Mr President! Good people's representatives! I have the honour and pleasure of introducing a simple, clear, short, but also a very beautiful bill. The purpose of this draft law is to make our current national date, since 1999, the mother tongue day, 14 March, a public holiday and, therefore, a holiday day. This proposal has been signed and supported by representatives of all political groups. I apologize here for all those who would have liked to sign, but whose signature I could not wait. Consequently, this proposal is not a political one, but, above all, an ad valorem one. I must honestly admit to you that for me, making this proposal was perhaps one of the most serious moments of discussion with myself. Namely, I have grown, believing and still exercising this faith in the words of Anton Hansen Tammsaare that work must be done, work is what brings happiness to the yard and also makes a person happy and happy. Considering seriously whether we need a new public holiday, a day of rest, I had to answer the question of a great many of my former colleagues whether I have lazy working in the Riigikogu, that I am going to demand and make a new day of rest. I therefore had to justify myself, which has now changed, why it would be right to introduce this holiday, the mother tongue day as a public holiday, right now. I tried to explain it from a lot of places. Looking at the question from an economic, cultural, socio-psychological and pedagogical point of view, I actually came to the point in almost every aspect that maybe it is time to re-evaluate the nature, concept and meaning of the work, as well as the value of the work, precisely in the time we live in, now, in the 21st century. Perhaps this endless ditching, which requires physical work, assembly, perseverance, persistence, must now be done a little differently. At first glance, the addition of one day of rest is certainly completely uneconomic. It's got a price tag on it. When you read the explanatory memorandum, you will also see the sum mentioned there, which directly (this is the formula used) could mean adding one day of rest. This order of magnitude is very broadly EUR 90 million: one extra day of rest, plus compensatory rest days, extra pay for work on the rest day, etc. So it is very expensive and, at first sight, it is really economically completely irrational and it is not worth discussing at all. However, looking aside from all the documents that we have discussed a lot in this Chamber, this is then a family policy, it is then a document of population policy or employment policy, these are strategies for the more comprehensive development of our country, it turns out that one trend that is evident is certainly confirmed by a wide range of studies, which have been carried out in many countries, that the person who is healthy, happy and rested also works better, his productivity, efficiency and the profitability of his work are certainly many times greater. I will add here this large table of happiness for people living in different countries. One of the trends that still stands out is that the people of Estonia, starting with schoolchildren, are not happy. Will happiness come in one day of rest? Absolutely not. Happiness is such a subjective thing that it certainly doesn't come in one, five or ten days of rest. However, adding one day of rest is, above all, a valuable opportunity for state structures to show that this path is really being taken, that it is understood that the nature of the work is changing and that the working person needs free time first and foremost. Leisure, it's a day off. So the economic price list is one thing, but looking at the other side as well, maybe this price list doesn't exactly reflect these other, additional values. From a cultural point of view, it is clear that Estonian is the basis of the identity of Estonians. If we also speak and rightly claim that the concept of identity will change in today's changing world, and language may not be the only one, and certainly is not the basis of the identity of a person loyal to the Estonian state, especially the national identity, then Estonians will certainly remain the main point of reference and pillar on which the national identity is based. By valuing our Estonian language with the help of a holiday day, we will certainly create a surprise effect on the world's scale. It seems to me more and more often that Estonia could demonstrate and use such surprise effects and differences more boldly because of its small size and its relatively dynamic development and capacity. Appreciating the Estonian language, we will certainly show the speciality of this small language, but with it our own ability to appreciate and recognise it. Sociopsychologically, I may see the benefits and wisdom in establishing this day of rest also in the sense of state policy. When we talk about the need to teach the Estonian language at a number of levels, starting with kindergarten, when we are rightfully talking about expanding the whole language space, maintaining it on several levels, it is much easier to explain to all minority nations why it is worth learning, which is special in that language. After all, this new day of rest makes you very often ask, "What kind of public holiday is this now? ' And then you have to say it's a native language day. From a pedagogical point of view, I would like to mention the moments already mentioned that it is really easier for us to expect others to know the Estonian language, understand this language and also want to learn the Estonian language if we show that we ourselves value the Estonian language so highly that we give the Estonian language day the holiday day, the state holiday status. Something bigger, some kind of higher status, it's hard to give one language. But there is certainly a pedagogical moment here because we are all grateful to our native teachers. Thanks to them, we will at least try to speak the beautiful native language and write it correctly and also understand the language we speak. It would be bowed down not only to the keepers of Estonian culture, but also to all teachers of Estonian language, to all those who have studied and defended the Estonian language for decades and who are doing so today. I know a number of teachers have said that what is the use of having 14 March as a day of rest, children still have to be dealt with. But in answer to them, I can say that on 13 March it is a very beautiful evening in all schools, that there is no need to fit an affair between other things, that there is no need to squeeze it anywhere on a mathematics class, and that there is no time left for physical education, for example. Why now? This Riigikogu has been given a unique opportunity. We work this year when the Republic of Estonia celebrates its 100th anniversary. The next year marks the 100th anniversary of the same Riigikogu, because 100 years ago the Constituent Assembly gathered and started its work. Next year, 100 years have passed since the birth of the National University in Estonia. In the summer of this year, 140 years passed since the birth of Peter Põllu, our first educational scientist. This year, 150 years have passed since the birth of Oskar Kallas, our first folk poet, our founder of language and library principles, 150 years have passed since the birth of Jaan Tõnisson and 155 years have passed since the birth of Henrik Koppel. We've been given such a rare year. If we don't do this as a mother tongue day off, it will always be done because I am sure that a small language such as the Estonian language, which, thanks to people who have held it and dealt with it, is among the 500 more advanced languages, deserves the highest recognition. I would like to thank all those representatives of the people who have supported this idea. I would like to thank all scientists, teachers and all the speakers of the Estonian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U93	Thank you for your convincing and inflammable presentation. However, it has also raised questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U94	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, unfortunately, I couldn't sign because you rushed into this bill. But I heard here that this one day off, this beautiful day that could be, is going to cost about 90 million. Although this year's budget will be the proudest of all time, but if this 90 million is true, it is still a big piece, although with alcohol excise we have given Latvia two mother tongue days and Latvians are still alive and have five more days of holiday than we do. But still, how do you explain to the so-called budget freaks how to balance this 90 million, whether there's any emotional vacations that you can put in cash, or if you're going to be helpless here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U95	Thank you for your question. I've been thinking about it for quite a while, because 90 million is really a lot of money. But by looking at all these studies, which have really been done very much in other countries, we do not have so much, and also by looking at how many countries, such as Switzerland, are discussing that maybe even have to shorten working hours, it turns out that scientists will increasingly explain that the benefits that come from one day of rest are much higher and are reflected in greater productivity, in people's better mood, in their desire for a specific task to be done the next day, faster, more efficient, better and more profitable. So this time, when we can say that 90 million is what we can't afford this day of rest, maybe it needs to be rethinked first. However, our country has reached the point that we need common values expressed not in money, but in more clear estimates, and we should also be able to formulate them more clearly and to support them more clearly and boldly. So I don't think it's 90 million at least it shouldn't be such a barrier anymore. This money actually comes back on other days through people's contribution to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U96	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Mother tongue Day is currently celebrated as flag day. We also have other very dignified anniversaries, which are flag days. In the case of this draft, the emotional, cultural and pure pragmatic aspects you yourself referred to will compete with each other by placing a price tag on them. Isn't that how we're gonna open Pandora's box? There are, like I said, other great anniversaries that are flag days. Why don't we start turning them into free days, each of them with a price tag?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U98	Thank you for your question. I think that there is no more important pillar for the Estonian state than the Estonian language. The Estonian language, the holding of the Estonian language next to the precious day, I dare not even offer such an important day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U99	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U100	Thank you. I'm just asking you to expand your horizons. I think Latvians are proud of their language just like Estonians, Lithuanians, Finns, Poles, etc. How many countries of the European Union have such a public holiday, or day off, related to their national language? And which ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U101	Thank you for your question. There is no language-related holiday or national holiday anywhere. Slovenia has a holiday or public holiday dedicated to Slovenian culture, culture, language, literature, fine arts. The others don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U102	Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U103	Thank you. The first question is clear. I got an earful of what sounded like a few minutes ago to get over that 90 million. The answer was that it would come back through a greater contribution from people on other days. It cannot be that, in one particular case, it will come, this greater contribution to work, and in the other cases it will not. This means that it is possible to make a formula and calculate by it how many more flag days we are going to do for a public holiday. Well, people work better on other days. Why does this greater contribution to work, which should compensate for these 90 million, work for mother tongue day and not work for other flag days? Maybe you shouldn't think of them as flag days.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U104	Thank you. For this 90 million, I think that the benefits of this day of rest, better work and happier joy will also work on other days. I didn't say it was just about mother tongue day. But I did use this statement to justify my mother tongue day as a holiday day. I add to this what I said in reply to Mr Madis Milling that I do not see any other day of such importance as to be offered for a day of rest and a public holiday, and that is why I boldly use all the arguments to emphasise that the Estonian language day should be made for a day of rest and a public holiday.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U105	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U106	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Krista! I am now faced with a big question if the mother tongue day is to be made a holiday, precisely so that people can create more values. For example, March 25 is the day of remembrance for the deportation of March. On that day, we should remember those people who were deprived of the opportunity to create values in Estonia. If there is a choice between 25 March as a flag day or a mother tongue day, which is already a flag day, as a national holiday, which way are you inclined, to point out this aspect that it is important that people can create values, but the possibility of creating values on the territory of the Republic of Estonia was partly taken away?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U107	Thank you for your question. I wouldn't want to compare these two days in any way. The meaning of these days is completely different. Even so, the mother tongue day, grasping the past, also looks clearly and creatively to the future. March 25th is a very serious and tragic day. It wouldn't be too bad for me if it was a national anniversary, a flag holiday. But I am not sure that such sad days should be carried forward as a day of rest, because in this case we assume that people have the joy and the desire to contribute to the identity of states in a creative and transferable way and to value it. Looking at all these questions and problems that we have raised in this Chamber in relation to the Estonian language, I see the great value of mother tongue day in a socio-cultural context. It is the same issue of state identity and the creation of the national identity of the nations that live here. So on Native Language Day, in addition to pragmatic and economic and emotional and estimated aspects, there is still a purely national identity-creating nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U108	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U109	Good manager! Good waitress! Once again, a sympathetic initiative. But let's play this game: imagine that you are now in the shoes of the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia, the budget is yours to present, and you have to find a source of cover for this 90 million, as the bureaucrats love to say. Where would you find this source of cover if you went along with this game, or what would you offer?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U110	Thank you for your question. I will never become the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia, for which I feel too little of this entire monetary and fiscal policy. But now, if you go playfully along with this, I would certainly like to review the whole excise policy first. I am sure that this introduction of alcohol duty to Latvia has in no way benefited Estonia. I would certainly also review the current, I think, a little too confusing and difficult tax policy in general. This question, which I would probably dare to raise, at least for discussion, would perhaps be an increase of 1% in total VAT. I think that this would be a perfectly possible place for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U111	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U112	Thank you. I belong to this camp, who supports Krista Aru speaking before us in terms of this public holiday. I think it is a profoundly symbolic and beautiful proposal, as if it were meaningful for us to adopt it. But I ask you whether you know where Estonia belongs to the European Union in terms of the number of public holidays. Are we among those countries that have many red calendar days, or rather are we where there are fewer than others?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U113	Thank you for your question. I've been trying to give a brief overview of where we belong in the explanatory memorandum. Estonia has 12 such holiday days, a public holiday, and for a short comparison, for example, in Belgium there are 24. But in general, we belong to a class similar to our neighbours, we'd rather have a little less holiday than the Latvians and the Lithuanians, but I wouldn't say tragically less. There have also been discussions in this Chamber as to whether one day of rest could be added during Easter. This is the place of another debate, but I will say again what I have already repeated here today several times: it seems to me that it is not only a pragmatic consideration that matters when granting the status of a public holiday to the Estonian language, but it would be very strong and very symbolic and meaningful on several levels. Let us remember that the year was 1999 when this national date was introduced in Estonia. Today we are in 2018 and we are actually talking exactly the same way that 90 million is more important to us than giving the status of a public holiday to our language day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U114	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. Tiit Terik, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the leading committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U115	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft law amending the Holidays and Dates Act already three months ago, before the big summer, on 11 June, when Ms Krista Aru explained on behalf of the performers. The Commission members had a number of questions about this draft. The speaker asked whether the appointment of a mother tongue day as a public holiday could lead to a situation where a day without teaching for young people would lead to school being unable to celebrate this day. Krista Aru thought she didn't see it as a threat. There was also talk about the financial dimension. Lauri Luik asked what the financial cost of being appointed as a public holiday would be. In the same way that Krista Aru spoke here about the 90 million, which was also thoroughly touched in this report. Mr Adams also received the answer to his question. Namely, he wondered if the mother tongue day was already there in pre-war Estonia. Mrs Aru replied that this was proposed in 1935 but could not be realised. Now the decisions of the Commission. It was decided by consensus in the committee that the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 September and that Tiit Terik, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would be appointed rapporteur. With 6 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U116	Thanks to the waitress! There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U117	On today's occasion, then, I say that dear President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. I admit I'm standing here today with a little bit of insane feelings. First of all, thank you very much to the drafters. Let me be clear: most of you belong to the top-10 of my Riigikogu. Thank you, because talking about the importance of Estonian is never too much. However, I would rather speak against this draft today, and mostly with arguments that have already sounded in one way or another today. I'll start with the background. There are indeed 12 public holidays in Estonia, 13 in Lithuania and Sweden, 10 in Finland, 15 in Austria, 17 in Latvia. I hope my data is correct. Indeed, on every additional day off, there is a price involved; today there have been 90 million on several occasions. But I have heard from the wise people that, in addition to the national holidays so far, our country would suffer economically and indeed have an emotional benefit. It would be much harder if there were two public holidays and a much harder one for three. Now, of those arguments that have made me a little hesitant. First of all, this has already sounded like an argument, but at least as I understand it today, on Mother's Day, the most diligent thing is being done in schools. I assure you that this is necessary because the student claims that one or the other topic would be easier for him to read or even express in English, often encounters startling times, more and more often. School's the hot spot. I have personally experienced the organisation of literary knowledge competitions, poetry readings at school. I still remember how every teacher at Treffner's school had the obligation to start a class with a poem by an Estonian author; there were plays, pretexts; it was a good opportunity to invite writers to school. I have little doubt that if there were no schoolwork that day, would one day sooner or later these activities take place just as intensively and smoothly. It seems to me, or I'm afraid not. Secondly, when we start discussing the regularisation of one additional day of public holiday, it is indeed the case that there have been several other holidays. Next to Mother's Day, we mention the second Easter Day, which is often a day off in Europe. There has been talk of the day of wisdom, September 1, but this day would probably be the same argument that I brought a little while ago about the English - language day that that day usually goes to school. In addition, there is the opportunity that we have considered most in our group that if the day off, the public holiday, comes to the weekend, then the day off would be either Friday or Monday. Please...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U118	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U119	This latter option is perhaps the one we are inclined to support most in the group at the moment. If a mother tongue day were legalised as a public holiday, the chances of other days would be greatly reduced, as the amount would increase: 90 million, 180 million, 270 million. In short, the choice of a new public holiday should take place from among the alternatives. I would be very pleased if that were to happen. But right now, we don't have any other options. So, what do we say in conclusion? The majority of the Socialist Group is of the opinion that one additional public holiday could be legalised in Estonia, but we think that the time is not yet ripe for choosing a specific day or that this choice should be made from among the alternatives. We also certainly thank the drafters and ask them to understand those ambassadors who love the Estonian language, but do not support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U120	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U121	Mr President! On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I would like to say that we do not support this bill. Strangely enough, the previous speaker pressed the button a lot sooner than I did, and as a teacher, I can tell you that he was telling the truth. It was the same thing I wanted to say. The mother tongue day is the day when there are massive events in schools. Turning this day into a public holiday would mean that all this activity would simply disappear. Now I'd like to fix two things of fact that I've heard. Firstly, a complex tax policy. I don't know where that statement is taken from. There are many studies carried out, there are ratings that set out the tops of what tax policy is in one country or another, and they even know how to compare them. I want to convince you that the Estonian tax system is among the top-3, at least in Europe. We have one of the simplest and most transparent systems. I cannot imagine what you would have said if you had been in contact with, for example, Italian tax policy. You'd better take the poison, wouldn't you? One more thing. I was happy to mention this amount myself, EUR 90 million, and I was just waiting for someone to pay attention to it. I mean, it's a total product. In fact, if we're talking about one day, it's about 0.2% of the total product, it's his share of the budget, and it's not 90 million, it's about 45, maybe 40 million, given that our gross product grows more every year than 45 million, not 90. But that's it. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party does not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-11_U122	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 618 at first reading. Let's get ready for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for a commission to reject the draft law amending the law on holidays and holidays initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Maire Aunaste, Monika Haukanõmme, Ain Lutsep, Enn Mere, Martin Helme, Laine Randjärve, Artur Talvik, Liina Kersna, Helmen Küti, Henn Põljaas, Uno Kaskpeiti and Raivo Põldaru at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 12 against and 1 abstention. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 618 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings. We will certainly not go into excesses, but I will conclude today's sitting in this way: ladies and gentlemen, we will meet tomorrow at 1 p.m. in this Chamber. Closure of the sitting at 12.05 p.m.
