ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the third Thursday session of the 7th plenary session. As always at the beginning of the sitting, everyone will be able to hand over drafts and enquiries. Is that what you want? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Next thing you know, you're gonna need to do a presence check. Please! 71 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 30 members of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, an important announcement! As next week, on 29 January, there will be a meeting of the secretaries-general of the European Union's parliaments in this Chamber, I have a very big request for you to clear your drawers and tabletops. Otherwise, everything you leave here will be confiscated. Please do so when we are done with the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U2	Now let's go to today's agenda. We have on the agenda the first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and the Local Government Council Election Act, which was initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. Andres Herkel will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the draft has been submitted by the Free Party Group and its main objective is to go beyond the principle of the local government council and Riigikogu elections in the distribution of compensation mandates, in which case the candidate whose personal vote is the best. It is not the one who has necessarily received the highest number of votes in absolute terms when it comes to different electoral circles, but the one who has the highest weighting among the recipients of the compensation mandate in comparison with the circles. I would like to remind you that in Estonian municipalities, compensation mandates are used in Tallinn only, analogous to the elections of the Riigikogu. The presentation of this principle here in the Riigikogu is not new. It is quite surprising in itself that in no case has the initiative become a law, even though quite a number of times the first reading has been completed quite unanimously and very many political parties have expressed their support for an idea which has sometimes been referred to as the principle of open lists. During this period we have also submitted a draft which provided for a mechanism for the distribution of compensation mandates in the elections to the Riigikogu. It was left open. However, when we approached the local elections, we brought before Parliament a similar draft concerning Tallinn, it was rejected at first reading. Quite inconsistent. This time we are proposing this principle for both of us, because we consider it important. Speaking of history, it is not known where the term used very much in spoken language has come from, the 'open list'. I'm not quite sure, but I think that's about the way it was called in the run-up to the 2011 Riigikogu elections. At the time, our current colleague, Mart Nutt, came up with this principle. Mart Laar, then chairman of the IRL, supported him. Our current colleague, Mr Michal, the Secretary-General of the Reform Party at the time, stated that, well, if there are no very important content issues, there could also be something like this that he said could be discussed, but showed scepticism. A number of political scientists then expressed their support for the principle that those who have more voters would be the first to have a compensation mandate. If we draw up some more history, there has also been such an option in this Chamber that all the mandates in the Riigikogu elections can be shared only in circles and the compensation mandates can be abolished at all. Such a draft was initiated, as I recall, in 2004, but it did not reach adoption either. As the issue of electoral circles is probably topical at the moment, I would say in this way that the distribution of mandates in the electoral circles also fulfils the principle that the role of personal votes in the result of the election must be increased. However, in such a case, if there are very few circles with mandates, as we currently have at least two circles, the principle of the proportionality of elections, that is, what has been accepted in Estonia, would certainly suffer, namely the electoral threshold. We have had an election threshold of 5%. If it has been debated, it would rather be in the direction that it should be even lower. But if there are many electoral districts and few mandates there, then inevitably political parties with greater support and the principle of proportionality, which leads political parties with at least 5% support to the Riigikogu in Estonia, will be elected. It is often asked what is the problem with the allocation of compensation mandates and why parties should not make their own rankings and present their own lists in this way. Indeed, I myself understand that in the early 1990s, when new political forces had emerged freshly in Estonia and it was really necessary to bring into politics new specialists in their field, who were perhaps not as widely known to the public as former ECB functionalists, this idea might have been practical. This brought many people into politics in the early 1990's, who were hardworking and founded laws in one area or another. At that point, this approach must have justified itself. When I started as a member of the Riigikogu in 1999, there were some single colleagues who had received less than 100 votes. This has already led to a clear public dislocation. It began to be felt by such a mechanism that getting a mandate depends very much on who is preferred either by the party's leadership or by such a 'backroom', and that the list could be promoted. There have also been cases of punishment with a list of more stubborn politicians. Maybe sometime between 1999 and 2003, a way to better account for the voter's voice was devised. In order to obtain a compensation mandate, the candidate must collect at least 5% of the basic quota for the respective constituency. In numerical terms, depending on the size of the electoral circles, it became impossible to obtain a mandate with less than 300-400 votes. In this way, we have gradually moved in the direction of giving the voter a greater, more decisive weight in the elections. True, one small twitching was linked to the European Parliament elections, the lists of which were, in the meantime, completely closed. Only the list could get votes. When, in 2009, the phenomenal result of the votes of individual candidate Indrek Tarand was evidently very skilfully opposed to the introduction of closed lists, because a live candidate, as a person, could be given a roll-call vote, politicians arrived quite quickly, that the principle of a closed list in the election of the European Parliament was not correct. After that, it was also changed. In short, our proposal is to move to a way of allocating mandates where candidates who have not received a personal mandate or a circuit mandate will be the first to receive a compensation mandate, whose personal weight in the district is the best, followed by the next, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U4	Good waitress, you have questions. The round begins with Valdo Randpere. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U5	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress Andres, you have certainly calculated how many of the current members of the Riigikogu would have been affected by such a change if it had been done before the 2015 elections. You don't have to go personal with names, just tell me how many members of the Riigikogu would be someone else instead.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U6	Thank you. I don't get personal, and I don't know the exact number either. As the composition of the Riigikogu changes, we have occasionally looked at how many of these changes are. The exchange would probably have about ten members, even below it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U7	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U8	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, colleague! You've been very critical of the government's multiple drafts, they're not properly prepared, and you're not following this compilation plan, which is kind of theoretical. I would say that this is, to a large extent, a political declaration, but I would like to ask that the Commission did not make it clear and the explanatory memorandum also does not make it clear whether you have compared different options and why this system was chosen for drawing up this national list. Did you communicate with the electoral commission and the national electoral service, and what did it reveal? If you were communicating, why isn't it reflected in the explanatory statement? If you didn't communicate or coordinate your views with the most competent body, why didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U9	Thank you. I think, firstly, that this principle has been presented so many times. I do not have the history or expertise of this communication at hand here, but it is obvious that it is not a question of electoral engineering in this sense, it is a question of political choice. Now, if the wording of the bill in all nuances is the best, if there is a political will for it to become a draft, then in this respect I am open. And maybe you can argue about that. What can be argued about? The question is whether this principle, which we have formulated very simply here, is best, so that some national list remains, but the candidates are simply regrouped according to the weight of the votes received. If there's a situation where two candidates get equal numbers of votes in the same circle, so you have to make a preference, then in our version, it really is that if there's a national list, even alphabeticly ranked, it's done. In principle, in such a case, the national list can also be abolished and agreed, for example, that the age-old candidate will receive a mandate in the event of a tie of votes, etc. In this regard, the idea of lists being even in the alphabetic order has once been proposed, including lists of circles, which would lose the "first number" advantage. In the case where the Centre Party and Mr Hallemaa support progress with this initiative, we are very open to negotiations on all these nuances. The problem so far has been, in particular, that the two largest parliamentary parties, the Reform Party and the Centre Party, have not supported this principle, while all the other parties in this Chamber have clearly supported it at different times, as I recall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U10	Jürgen Ligi, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U11	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! Almost everything you say here is relevant and worth considering. But because of which it gets hollow, it's a slight subtone between it and it's a heavy subtone, so as not to say an overtone, as if the current system were somehow dirty, undemocratic and essentially closed. Tell me, do you really personally think that in politics, the measure of human quality is popular and what you are offering is a good solution, so there is a reason to make those who prefer a different solution look bad in some way. I've seen a lot of people here who have an inverse of popularity and activity. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U12	No, Mr. Ligi, I do not think that popularity is the only measure of honesty, industriousness and also political wisdom for people, how to say this now. But nowhere in the world is a system designed to measure it differently from the votes cast by voters, so that it is also understandable and understandable to society. I have seen enough of those countries that have a significantly different electoral system than we do. I've seen one of these, I'd say, percussions. In a vastly large country such as Ukraine, there was for some time a electoral district closed with party lists. No personal popularity. What was going to happen? What happened was that the places on the list were bought with money. In the same way, all those cases of 'list' elections, i.e. no personal votes, are, in my opinion, dangerous and not understandable to voters. They exist in different countries. And as far as I have seen them, I dare say here, the quality of democracy in these countries is certainly worse than ours. The question is, what's the problem with this system, if only ten people or a little less, maybe a shift. Our observations also say, following the steps of other parties, that there is, however, a 'backroom phenomenon'. In some cases, a candidate with a clear political slippery and poor public image has been kept on the list. That is one side of the case, but I think it is even more important than the way voters understand the electoral system. In addition to the various advantages of the Estonian electoral system, I think that the problem is that people do not always see the mechanism for the creation of mandates and votes. If we could take this small step and clearly look everyone in the eye and say that we are proposing an open system where the composition of the Riigikogu depends exactly on the proportion of the votes of the electorate, then we could take a very big step towards better trust and understanding of politics in this society. That is our main objective, Mr Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U13	Helmut Hallemaa, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U14	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good colleague waitress! Certainly a number of the principles that you have put forward and said in the Commission about what this bill brings are absolutely right. But we're still dealing with a bill that changes the electoral order pretty much. One question you already answered, which I wanted to ask. You say in the explanatory memorandum and you also stressed in the committee that the majority of political parties support this method. We now realized that the majority of 57 MPs, or Riigikogu, still do not agree with all these views. But my question is precisely because of the compensation mandate. Why have you bound it to a simple quota that is very volatile? I have here the results of the last election. In Ida-Virumaa, it was the smallest of 4926, with the most basic quota in District No 3, Tallinn Mustamäe, Nõmme 6526. The resulting compensation mandate is also exceptionally different, i.e. we actually programme inequality here. Why is this done?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U15	Thank you. I think that we are not programmed in inequality, but are trying to create maximum equality in a situation where electoral districts are already abnormally different in size in Estonia. Harju and Raplamaa are now going with 15 mandates, but some districts, especially Lääne-Virumaa and Saare-, Lääne-, Hiiumaa, where a piece of Läänemaa is still being cut off, are on the border to see whether there are five mandates, perhaps smaller. It is quite understandable that the collection of 2,000 votes in a small circuit or in the large Harju and Rapla counties is two different things. Therefore, absolute numbers cannot be set as a mechanism for allocating compensation mandates, as this would be unequal. Simple quotas are indeed mathematically different in different circles, but there are also differences in the number of voters, as well as the number of candidates put out by political parties, i.e. the degree of competition. Therefore, it seems to us that taking into account the weight of votes, which is based on a simple quota, is the most appropriate method of doing such mathematics.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U16	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U17	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The internal democracy of political parties has developed very differently and various systems are used in drawing up lists. The Reform Party, for example, has open internal elections, where everyone can participate, and so a long list is formed. I wanted to ask you what it's like in other parties. If you can't tell us about everyone, what about making a list in the Free Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U18	Thank you. The Free Party has done this once. I hope that at some point a book of memories will appear, and there I will describe this procedure. It looked like we didn't even have a council institution at the time, it was so small and dynamic. It was discussed at the Bureau meeting, and during the preliminary discussion, the president indeed submitted a draft of the top of the list, and it was then decided that all candidates would rank their ten candidates who could be at the top of the list. It turned out that the differences between the option proposed by the Chair and the outcome obtained by the internal vote of the candidates were exceptionally small and that the list went ahead without any change. Somebody gave up somewhere. That's basically the list.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U19	Jürgen Ligi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U20	Thank you. I didn't really like the last answer. With your relatively small impact, you will start comparing Estonia with Ukraine. This is not an appropriate comparison. Secondly, if you claim that people do not understand, then as soon as you start talking about a simple quota for this system, a person will no longer understand anything, and I am afraid that within this paragraph there will be a stronger effect than in the case you are offering. The person still does not understand exactly how these voices are formed and why the Riigikogu is like this. That's not the point. That is why I ask whether you actually rule out any possibility that populism exists in politics, empty-handedness, orienting itself to some 10 to 15% of the votes, and the result is worse than it has been so far. My fear is that our policy is already leaning towards local rather than national interests, or populism.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U21	Thank you. Mr. Ligi, I've seen this blanking as long as you have. Sometimes by that we have probably meant the same things and agreed, sometimes our estimates have probably been diametrically opposite. As far as my extension of Ukraine is concerned, I have made a slightly longer introduction to show what negative effects closed lists may have. But when I answered your previous question, I indicated that these differences may not be very large, but it is certainly understandable for the voter to rank such a vote by weight. And even if the term 'elementary quota' is not very well understood, the weight of personal votes is definitely something that comes to the mind of a person that has fractions and percentages and their size is different. So at this point, our perceptions of populism and empty-handedness, Mr. Ligi, are obviously different.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U22	George Adams, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U23	Thank you. I have a feeling that Mr Hallemaa did not quite understand when he asked his question here, however, and maybe there are others who do not understand that this is not a matter of basic quotas, but of the distribution of personal votes and basic quotas. For example, if someone has received 1000 votes and the simple quota is in his constituency, say, 5,000, then this division is 0.2. And such divisions are comparable between the electoral circles, although the electoral districts may be completely incomparable in their structure. My question is this: has your talk about this weight of votes been defined as I was trying to explain, or is it somehow different, and I was wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U24	It certainly has been defined in such a way that it arises from the ratio between the number of votes and the simple quota. And basically, as I pointed out above, once the minimum votes are set for the allocation of compensation mandates. This took place between 1999 and 2003, around this period, it was decided that candidates who receive votes below 5% of the district's basic quota would simply not qualify. This 5% threshold is also obviously different in circles of different sizes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U25	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U26	I agree with your statements about the 1990s. But the question arises for a very simple reason: there is no universal system that would be completely free of error. Do you feel that today there is no need to encourage young people, including women, and politically not so well-known competences to come to politics? Close lists allow this to be done to some extent. If there are open lists, it's all in the hands of the voters. Is there no longer a need to bring young people, women and politically not very well-known people into politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U27	Thank you. I think it is primarily in the hands of the parties. The Free Party succeeded relatively well last time. In fact, Mr Nestor's question relates to a question that was once put to me by Juhan Parts. He asked: would you have brought such a composition to the Riigikogu with open lists, as we succeeded in 2015? My answer to him was that it was probably possible to create some kind of preference in such a case through circuit lists. But it's not the way the number of votes doesn't count. Recalling also the draft so-called striped list of social democrats, which was here at reading, I found that it is actually completely discriminatory for new political forces. For simple reasons: putting together such a list is much more difficult. The Free Party would not have been able to draw up such a list that the proportion of men and women in all circles is also equal. We did, but a hundred percent of it just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U28	George Adams, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U29	My second question is this: Mr waitress, did I understand correctly that if we now have a three-type personal mandate in Estonia, a circuit mandate and a compensation mandate in Estonia, then hypothetically, if this bill becomes a law, the third species will disappear and there will be only two: a personal mandate and a circuit mandate? That's one side of the question. The other side is this: could the basically the same result be achieved in a different way, namely by making it absolutely easy to submit electoral lists, as is the case in Finland, compared to the absolutely difficult procedure for setting up the list of candidates that is currently valid under Estonian law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U30	Thank you. If the other part of the question was whether it was possible to go to an option where all the mandates are shared in circles, then I have already drawn a little attention to this at the beginning of my report. Such a bill has never been tabled. Yeah, basically, it's conceivable. The problem I see now is that if there are only 4, 5 or 6 mandates in one constituency or another, this way of allocating mandates does not actually respect the principle of the proportionality of elections. Perhaps there may be a situation where a party receives 5% of the total number of votes across the country, maybe even 7%, but there is no mandate in all circles. That's the weak spot. But basically, in Finland, this system applies and is actually, let's say, within large limits logically quite close to the Estonian electoral model. It wouldn't be too far to go. Now, is there no new type of mandate in the term of this draft? However, here we have maintained that there are personal mandates, circuit mandates and compensation mandates, as we propose. In principle, however, when I asked the question, the honourable questioner put to my mind the idea of whether any different types of mandate were needed at all. Mathematically, the result would probably be the same if they were ranked like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U31	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U32	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question continues with my colleague Eiki Nestor, which referred to the fact that the current system allows quite good support for new and newcomers who are not yet very popular in the country or, let us say, in their circles. You explained in your reply that political parties depend heavily on how they support new and newcomers. However, with this amendment, you are actually reducing the opportunities for political parties to offer this support. How is that consistent? The second part of my question concerns the circles. You said it would be possible through circles. However, the lists of circles are already open and ranked by the number of votes received. Could you explain that a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U33	Thank you. I think that the list of circles still has a very large weight on who has been offered the front-number position, and the sequence is playing a pretty big role there. If the candidate does not carry out a very favorable sequence, there is nothing to do. But as far as the first part of the question is concerned, to a certain extent, I would even like to believe the noble intentions contained in the questions you and Mr Nestor put forward and to live in such an ideal world. However, if I have looked at the recipients of the compensation mandate and those who have lost their mandate with a good vote, I have not noticed in the final election analysis that this good motive for promoting new, young, strong players would have been the basis for drawing up the lists; these lists have gone as they have done. Hence the difference in our approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U34	Arto Aas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U35	Thank you. Well, this last response still has a slight negative attitude towards the members of the Riigikogu who have received the compensation mandate. It just makes me ask for interest. You yourself have a very distinguished and long career in the Riigikogu. Have there been periods in which you yourself received a compensation mandate in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U36	Yeah, it has been.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U37	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Your answers and principles sound through a few words and thoughts. On the one hand, you are talking about the back rooms of the parties who are trying to get their members to the Riigikogu. But on the other hand, you're saying that if the parties want, they can place the people they need in the district in their respective places. This goes against the principle of the Reform Party in the sense that when members choose the main list, people vote on it. Instead, my question is that if I look at the parties that have gotten here today, there are six of them, and if you spoke before about 10% or 10 members would be different, then it seems to me that there are no seats for one or two parties in the back room. Is the main question in this back room, which you have been politically trying to tell the public about, or are you talking about absoluting in terms of votes?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U39	Thank you, Mr. Kruuse! You used the word 'backroom' more than I have in the past, even though I have said it a few times. But, as I said, the key question is still that the voters have a sense of security, that in fact the composition of the Riigikogu depends on its decision and on what weight of votes one or the other candidate has achieved. I mean, I'd leave those backroom things alone. In my opinion, there have been, and also the noble motives that have been highlighted here, there have certainly been, but in recent Estonian politics I have rarely noticed them. This principle of open lists, which has already been run for ten years, would simply lead to a very logical end to the development of the electoral system that started in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U40	Igor Gräzin, your turn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U41	That's the question. You and I have been in politics for a long time, and we know that there are broadly two types of people in politics: those who sparkle before the voters, and others who we can call working horses of the Riigikogu. If we are now thinking about 20 years ago, I can name seven or eight people in my party who actually did a terrible amount for Estonia and who we owe thanks both for preparing to enter NATO and for the low tax system. These people are no longer among us in this hall, simply because the circus rider or TV shows such as the "Holder wants a wife" heroes can get on more easily. Call me the mechanism, please! We don't have so many people that we can just leave people out because he doesn't happen to be on a television show or throwing a disk or something. How do we get it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U42	I don't know, I don't think most of the people in this room are on TV shows. Mr Gräzin has certainly done so more than the speaker. However, I do not see any relevance in this respect. [[A comment from the floor.]] That's the question that Jürgen Ligi raised, but I'm not answering that question right now. Nearly two questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U43	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! To this debate, I would add a temporal dimension and this would be: the powers of local councils will last for three months for less than four years, they will continue now, and the elections of the Riigikogu will come in almost a year. It is usually the idea in this Chamber that it is not a good year before the elections to make fundamental changes. How do you comment on the progress of this bill now and almost a year after the Riigikogu elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U45	Thank you very much. That's why we brought this bill before you right now. We presented it at the very end of last year so that he could come to the first reading in January. At present, all the preconditions are for a change to be made within a reasonable period of time before the elections, if the Riigikogu's will is such and this principle is supported, so that the law can also apply in the elections in March 2019. In view of all benevolent procedures, this will certainly be feasible by 3 March then this year's measurement will begin. But I myself think that this good practice does not have to be measured with such a sharp ruler, because if it stays a few weeks later in March, everything will be fine. There is no direct requirement, it is rather a cognitive concept, but yes, that is why we are now facing you with this bill so that there is a reasonable time before the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U46	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is inspired by an earlier question and an answer concerning the possible loss of compensation mandates. I've been doing some calculations, and this could lead to a situation where the actual election threshold in some circles rises to 8 to 9%. This has been the case in the Tallinn elections. I think there were two selections where the then Patriotic Union list received 8% of the votes, but a zero mandate. Hence the consideration: Is this loss of compensation mandates, whether the lists are open, closed or in any way, a good solution? In this case, it is precisely the small lists that are very painfully avenged.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U48	Thank you. As a historical statement, it wasn't quite 8%. I thought it was a little less, but it really happened. By answering a number of earlier questions, and also by developing this reasoning, could it not be that all the mandates are shared in circles, I say that is precisely this weak point. If we have still agreed that the threshold is 5%, and I believe that this threshold is a little high rather than too low, then in such a case, if we lose compensation mandates, the actual electoral threshold will rise much higher. Where he comes up, it's not exactly measurable. It is always possible that someone in one constituency has a very good candidate who takes away this one mandate, but in general, the questioner's problem is, in my opinion, precise. He may not actually agree with what Jüri Adams asked about, namely whether it makes sense to talk about different types of mandate when it comes to the weight of such votes. That's a different theoretical question already.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U49	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U50	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The major aim of this draft is to give a signal that the electorate knows that his decision actually determines the composition of the Riigikogu. Does this draft also not serve the purpose of having a discussion about whether a party is an instrument or an objective? Perhaps there should be a very clear signal that political parties should deliberately complete their lists and invite people to stand for quality. Not as mentioned above, we call all the ampelmanns together, and then we will see how the Estonian state will be governed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U51	Thank you. In my deepest understanding, the party is an instrument, as was the case with the question. The party is not an end to itself. The party is a tool and the best way of directing the politics of the Estonian state is a goal which is carried out by each party by means of its better judgment, skills and also the existing human composition. I would not call my fellow Members what was put forward in this question or even candidates, but the limits of the show and politics are often complex and vague. Some of us are used to walking on one side of the border and others on the other side. At the end of the day, however, the quality of one party or another is determined by the decisions that are made and by the composition or team that will form as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U52	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U53	We've all read Oskar Luts since we were kids. He's got a great Följeton 'Partei', and there's talk, on a page and a half of how the elections are held, namely, the ballot box is not cast into a man's voice or made a bird, it's a party list. The characteristic of Estonia is that we are looking for a stable country. A stable state is guaranteed by political parties and only political parties. Today we know what one or the other party means, we know what the sots think, for example, about women's violence, and then we know how opposed EKRE and IRL are to their citizenship policies, etc. Whether Jüri, Peeter, Mari or Krõõt is now a matter of no real importance. We need to ensure that we have a party that we like and trust. We vote not for the people, we vote for the party. Doesn't it look like it to me? just that your proposal is a small step away from the model of democracy on which the Republic of Estonia has been founded since its birth. Is it really the 100th anniversary that we need to redo everything again?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U54	Thank you, Honourable Igor Gräzin. In addition to Oskar Luts, I suggest you read the Arvo Valton novel, which bears the analogous title 'Partei', and which discusses how relationships have developed between numbers 1, 2, 4, 18 and 66 and what they are talking about. Very useful reading. As far as your question is concerned, however, I think that, in fact, the Estonian electoral system, which uses, on the one hand, the selection of political party lists and, on the other hand, the individual and individual votes, is a pretty good compromise between possible approaches. I do not quite agree with the fact that only the party is this image, and let it do what it wants to do in order to take away the personal voices. On the contrary, I also think that the formation of political parties in Estonia should be easier. Once upon a time, we had this rush to ban electoral alliances in local elections. I think it was very wrong. In this sense, I think the Estonian electoral system is very well balanced. Politics requires basically the same species diversity as biological communities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U55	Good waitress, no more questions for you. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided that the Commission's report will be made by Helmut Hallemaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U56	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is certainly an important issue. One of our fellow parties has raised the issue of elections several times, and we have also addressed it. What I think is going to happen later when I introduce the speakers to the committee. When I answered the questions, I could not comment, even though my name was mentioned, so I think that we probably need to change our home and work procedures a little. But I will tell my good colleague, Jüri Adams, in answer, that I understand very well what I asked about. I also asked the Commission about the same thing, and it comes out very nicely in the Commission's protocol. This draft was submitted to the proceedings by the Free Party on 22 November, then at the end of last year, and was dealt with by the Commission at first reading on two days: 15 January and 16 January. Decisions have also been taken on two days. As the composition of the Commission changed a little, I will not bring it out this time. I've usually done this. We did not exactly agree this time, and I will later note who was in agreement on a particular issue. I am trying to sum up the Commission's work, not to read the minutes to you. In fact, most of the questions have come out very nicely in this Chamber, and many of these problematic issues have also been raised. In the Commission, too, Mr Herkel, a good colleague of the draft, took the floor from quite a number of members. It was said that with a zero vote you can get to the Tallinn Council. In fact, this is not excluded elsewhere in Estonia, with the current system without compensatory mandates, there is a zero vote in the power of attorney. This is particularly the case if a council should disband or, rather, be called back. Then there may be no replacement ambassadors. This situation has completely arisen in Estonia. Arto Aas was interested and asked here how much this possible change in the system would affect the composition of the Riigikogu. He received an answer of 10 to 15%. He later commented that this was actually a marginal change and, like here in Saalisk, gave an example of his party's internal elections. Commenting on this, Andres Herkel argued that this is certainly a good thing and that there could be more internal democracy in all political parties. Jüri Adams, a good colleague, dealt with the name of the open list and claimed that there is not one or the other in Estonia at the moment: the lists are neither closed nor open. It also came out of the questions very nicely that the list will be re-located in the regions themselves, depending on the year, in fact 60 to 70%. The composition of the Riigikogu is actually formed on the basis of the actual election result. And we do not have closed or closed lists either in the sense that we, as voters, still vote in favour of a real candidate, we choose specific individuals whose votes will sum up the final number of votes of political parties. Why did I ask here and in the Commission about proportionality? I continue to argue that this system, which is currently being proposed, especially in the current distribution of circles, makes proportionality significantly worse. And another thing: I deliberately asked why there is a suggestion in your draft that the percentage is compared with a simple quota, which is very different across Estonia and depends on the number of people who have chosen on a given day. I fully agree with my colleague Jürgen Ligi that this makes the electoral system extremely confusing for us and for other voters, or for everyone at all, even for those who do not come to the vote. This system is pretty incomprehensible and confusing. That's why I asked the committee if there were any other, much simpler options. I did not get an answer here or in the Commission. I did not hear whether the possibilities had been compared to whether the nuances of the various options had been addressed and analysed with the National Election Service and the National Election Commission. Together with my good colleague, Mr Randver, I raised the same issue in the committee that Mr Rein raised today in this Chamber. It's still time. Today, there has been, in essence, a little over one year and one month until the elections of the Riigikogu, and the reproach that has been made in the case of several drafts from governments, the procedure for this draft has still been clearly programmed in. And if we're already saying that we either don't understand the content or we haven't followed one or the other, then we should really do a lot more about how this ranking in the national list is going to be determined, if we're going to make it free, open. As a member of the Commission, Jaak Madison wondered why the Government of the Republic gave up its position. That's what the government really did. Doesn't the open list matter? Well, a good colleague, Herkel, has already given an answer here, and I will not repeat that. I myself addressed in the Commission that, in fact, we have, on the table today, proposals on the size of electoral circles, in the form of packages of drafts from one political party, or the Free Party. These have actually been proposed by the Republic Election Commission and the State Election Service. This is a very important issue where the table has wall-to-wall solutions. I think these things should be dealt with together. These things depend on one another and affect one another, and it should take considerably more time to discuss them than it is one year and one month, which will remain until the next Riigikogu elections. We also made procedural decisions on two days. On the first day, 15 January, we decided to propose to put the draft on today's agenda and to appoint a rapporteur for the Commission before you. On 16 January, we decided to propose ending the first reading of the draft. There were five members of the Commission: Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Tiit Terik, Peeter Ernits and Jüri Adams as alternate members of Mikhail Korb. Lauri Luik and Kalle Laane were opposed and Helmut Hallemaa abstained. We propose that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, which is 5.15 p.m. on 8 February. The same people who were previously read out voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U57	Good waitress! You have at least one question. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U58	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Please present the timetable for the Commission's debate: when does the Commission intend to deal with this draft? A question was asked here that, if this draft could be dealt with in March, it could also be carried out nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U59	In the course of its work, the Commission will certainly undertake this draft and the procedure will also take place before the second reading. I am not the chairman of the committee, so I cannot tell you how it could go. Today I can say so much that the Commission decided, if I remember correctly, that 8 February is the time for the first-reading amendments, and, therefore, it can be dealt with further. I myself believe that there should certainly also be two competent bodies in this debate, i.e. the electoral committee and the electoral services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U60	Good waitress, no more questions for you. Thank you. Now it's time for a negotiation. Let me remind you that only the representatives of the political groups will get the floor. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U61	Honourable Riigikogu! This is certainly an interesting topic, but from the point of view of the Estonian political system, this is not the most important issue. As has been through here many times, it concerns a very small number of members of the Riigikogu, perhaps ten people at best, in the case of our current six parties in the Riigikogu, one or two people per group. We understand that this is not a matter of life or death. But surely we could live with a different solution if we are now in force, so this debate is welcome in itself. Personally, I'd like all the election lists to be drawn up in alphabetic order. It's my big dream, and I'm always willing to fight for it. But today we are talking about a different solution. Mr Herkel himself began with very correct arguments. In the 1990s, this system was justified because new people were needed in politics. There was a need for labor animals, for those who were not yet well known, but who were experts in their field and good ambassadors. I couldn't agree more. I still don't understand what's really changed. I don't think the situation has changed. I think today you have to see that more, or at least as much, need fresh blood, good experts and work animals, who really do work harder on committees than they do by posing on the cover of the Chronicle. That is, I think, still a perfectly strong argument that there should be such an opportunity in politics. Popularity is not the only virtue, at least it does not always reflect working ability and expertise. At this point, I also agree with Mr Nestor, who believes that this model today provides a certain opportunity to bring young people, women, less well-known people, who are experts in their field, to the Riigikogu. It's a pretty tight opportunity, but it's still there. In the same way, we cannot say that, under the current system, it would be possible to bring people to Parliament who are quite unknown or who have no votes. This threshold is still 300-400 votes, which is a very good result. This is a very decent result and unattainable for most candidates. I would like to stress that before any political party or Riigikogu starts to change any laws again, one could focus on whether the parties themselves have reached such a point in their own internal culture that they have exhausted all opportunities. As we have heard here, there are political parties, such as the Reform Party, where there is a long list of free democratic elections, where all 12,000 members can participate. Everyone has equal opportunities. Not everyone takes this opportunity, but very many still use it, and this is one very important element in building the internal democracy of a strong party. I am of the opinion, and the whole Reform Party is of the opinion that the model of Estonian government governance, or parliamentary democracy, is based on strong political parties. Free internal elections are an important opportunity to involve people and motivate people to bring fresh blood into politics. So here we could start with other parties, big and small, both on the left and on the right, going through proper internal elections. Then there's no basis for telling stories that the backrooms decide everything or that there's some sort of hustling going on somewhere. Let us be honest, the composition of the Riigikogu is actually decided by the circuit lists, which are ranked by political parties. Here comes 90% of the members of the Riigikogu. There is a certain reorder, but we know that the first numbers take 50%, sometimes even 90% of the votes. In our opinion, the current model in itself is reasonable. Mr Herkel said in his final statement that species diversity and diversity are a good option for Estonian politics, a good model. We agree. And we think that the current system will increase this species diversity: the system is more diverse, there are more opportunities and this is a good solution from the point of view of democracy in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U62	On behalf of the Free Party, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U63	Mr President of the sitting! Mr Aas said that the way in which compensation mandates are distributed is not a very important issue. I agree with him in this sense that there are certainly more important, important, more people-related and faster issues. But I would not conclude that this should not be dealt with, especially at a time when our Riigikogu is not overburdened with work. In my opinion, what makes this issue special is that it has gone sour. This is something that should have been done at least 10 to 15 years ago as a certain logical follow-up for a single period. This period began after where the current electoral system came at all. When the time came to restore Estonia's independence and the Soviet era ended, it was quite clear that the political forces had a different understanding of the future Estonian electoral system and, more generally, the whole state system. In particular, there was a gap because there were those who wanted to restore political tradition before the war, and those who wanted to move on to what was customary for Communist power. The picture was not only built in black and white or contrast colours. This was also the case with Professor Taagepera, who, as an expert, sought to offer a variety of interim options. The most outstanding result of his work was.. I don't know where in the world, I think the single, transferable voice system found in New Zealand, which was used once in Estonia, but it didn't confirm. The emergence of the current electoral system is a bit of a mystery, I have not read any serious research on it. This happened in May 1992 or early June in the last Supreme Council, where one of the relevant committees worked. It is generally believed that the author of the basic idea of the electoral system was Illar Hallas, a very prominent and energetic state figure in his time. The political content of this system is that there have been attempts here to mix two almost unconnected issues: a proportional electoral system as a basis for the allocation of mandates and for the submission of candidates, and a vote for a single candidate in a major electoral system. This mixed system, after it was introduced, was criticised by all its opponents during the first ten years. It was often criticised by its friends. The main reproach was its weaknesses and complexity. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U64	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U65	For the first ten years, very few gradual changes were made in order to minimise the weaknesses of a proportionate system. Each system has weaknesses and a proportional electoral system has weaknesses. They wanted them to be as few as possible. At some point, the night of repairs stopped. The current draft is also a step towards reducing the weaknesses of the system. Now we have a new political situation. If this was the case at the time, I would say that every amendment was adopted with almost a chorus of praise, then there is rather a scepticism about the draft that Mr Herkel has presented here. It is as if the weaknesses of the current system have grown dear to us, and it is not much to go on with improving them. Mr. Hallemaa, if I misunderstood something, I'm so sorry! It really seemed to me that perhaps it was not quite clear to everyone what the point of this bill was. If this bill were to become a law, it would indeed be as Mr Herkel said that after that, the role of the person who will be elected to the Riigikogu would no longer be necessary. All you need to do is include the election figures in the computer, and the computer throws out all the names of the elected ones. There is no need to look at the additional list of persons who should receive the compensation mandate. In this sense, Mr Herkel is right that the allocation of mandates between the three different groups will then lose meaning. It may remain a historical tradition, but there is nothing practical about it anymore. It is not known to me whether in the first Republic of Estonia, I mean from 1920 to 1934 when we had such a procedure that all the mandates in the circles were distributed with a proportional electoral system, that there was some sort of political force who received more than 5% of the votes on Estonia, but did not receive any mandates. Nor is there any reference work to look after it, nor is there any scientist to ask. This risk is theoretically present, but at the same time it is certainly, I would say, precluded by the technique of nomination. But there is a reasonable compromise in any case. Once again, I call for support for this bill. I think that this condition of at least one year is not the most important. In my opinion, this means that changes must not be made later than one year, and this applies mainly to matters concerning the subject matter of this law, namely the voters. However, I do not think that this should be transferred to the method of distribution of mandates, because the improvement of the technical change in the allocation of mandates could be achieved even a few months before the elections, I do not see a problem here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U66	On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U67	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I really didn't have any intention of speaking this time, but I'd say a few things. Firstly, I agree, once again I must say to my good colleague, Mr Aasa, who asked about the weight or role of the mandates. In fact, I very much liked the comment made by my good colleague Jüri Adams on the Commission that at the moment we come through this door and take the oath of office, as members of the Riigikogu, we are all equal before the law and also equal before the voter. Such a principle should be respected. I don't think it's good to point it out here all the time. The topic even arose in the committee that we should give rights and opportunities to people, members of the Riigikogu and also members of local government councils, depending on the number of votes. As far as the whole electoral system is concerned, it also appeared a little in the Commission that we still think so, and I personally, in the same way, that it must be considered as a whole. There are quite a number of other things upstairs that you may not be able to compare with whether something is less or more marked. One of the most important is certainly the size of the circles, which is now very different and which is also programmed here, which we now want to change by making it dependent on this very simple quota, or the minimum compensation. I think that there are considerably simpler systems for comparing the contribution of the votes of the candidates or the role of the votes received and the role of the electoral mandate. This system is, I repeat, I also agree here with my good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, who is extremely difficult for us. We didn't understand everything the same way here, one understood the same way, the other did. That's something you should really think about. Therefore, I repeat, this is a subject that cannot be pushed through on an ad hoc basis. I think that the whole approach to the electoral system must be much wider. It must be more understandable to the electorate. However, the proposed solution makes things even more complex and confusing. It is certainly important to include not only interest groups outside this hall, but also the national electoral service and the electoral commission, who have a very professional experience in organising elections. I therefore believe that this procedure cannot be as short as is currently envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-25_U68	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of the draft 550. I will set the deadline for submitting the 550 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 8 February. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed today's agenda. I wish you every success in the work of the committees and a beautiful weekend. I'll see you next week, which is in a week. Closure of the sitting at 11.14 a.m.
