ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Welcome, many guests! The Tuesday session of the 11th working week of the VIIIth plenary session will begin with the referral of drafts and enquiries. Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a historic moment when I have the great pleasure and honour of handing over to the Riigikogu Board the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Principles of State Reform and Good Administration'. The outcome of the work of the Commission set up to develop developments in the country reform has been much positive feedback from various experts and institutions. I would like to point out so much that, in our sense, state reform is not just an end in itself, but a means of increasing the success of our people. Many people, as well as organisations, have spoken a great deal about the state reform, and there are ideas and suggestions from the wall to the wall. Some of them are very reasonable, but some are scary. That is why it is extremely important that we take a decision at parliamentary level on the fundamentals of state reform and good administration, so that it is clear: in the rush to reform the country, we must not dismantle our country, but we must prepare ourselves for a new leap of development. This draft decision sets out the most important principles on which we really do not dismantle the Estonian state, but help to make it even better. Finally, I quote from the letter from Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise to our problem committee: 'I find that the work of the Special Committee on State Reform of the Riigikogu in defining the basis and main direction of state reform is fully worthy of recognition in its thorough and comprehensive nature. The decision of the Riigikogu as a result of the work carried out could become a guide to the government for the further conduct of the state reform, at the same time confirming the decisive role of the representative state in this process. ' So, hopefully, in spite of the approaching elections, we will find enough statesmanship in ourselves to make this important decision within this composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U3	I have adopted a draft on behalf of the Riigikogu's management board; we process it as usual in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. One message, ladies and gentlemen: today, after the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Estonian 200 Support Group for Memory Bank, convened by Laine Randjärv. Incoming check, please! 73 MPs will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U4	We are starting today with the Prime Minister's overview of the Government of the Republic's activities in the implementation of European Union policy. In short, how we are going with this debate today. First, the presentation by the Prime Minister is up to 30 minutes, then the presentation by Toomas Vitsut, President of the European Union Affairs Committee, for up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Subsequent negotiations involving political group representatives. And as usual in such cases, the Riigikogu will not take a decision at the end of the debate. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, speaking for up to half an hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear ambassadors! I have the honour to give the Riigikogu an annual summary of the implementation of Estonian European Union policy. A comprehensive overview of the years 2015 to 2019 has been presented to Parliament in writing and will complement today's presentation. For the past five years, Europe has faced many difficult challenges: the aftermath of the economic and debt crisis, the acts of aggression in Europe, the migration crisis, the political crisis in the form of the UK leaving and the resulting and amplifying value crisis. In this way, the unity of the West, both in attitudes and in action, has been tested repeatedly for us. It is not much to say that we have repeatedly risked losing ourselves in these crises. There have certainly been moments when nothing seemed sacred anymore. The danger of splitting up, encapsulating and thus losing the capacity to act is certainly not lost. Therefore, these years could be illustrated by the words of the famous Austrian poet Rainer Maria Rilke: 'Who is speaking here of victory? Endurance is everything. ' As politician Ivan Krastev has said, crises have shown us much better than any policy that we Europeans are all part of the same political community and we are dependent on each other. We have been able to find common ground, with joint efforts, even on the most difficult issues and to maintain the unity of the European Union. The main constructive conclusion is that we have not done enough so far, but just too little cooperation. Selfishness, power of the rod, lack of willingness to compromise and escape from the past would only be if the words of the Lithuanian-Polish nobelist Czeslaw Milosz were used, 'acquiring the past, making it more pleasant'. But we know that the sky was not bluer before, nor was the grass greener. The only right measure for the success of cooperation is to maintain unity, to compromise and to stand firm on our own beliefs, as well as to build our capacity for development, learning and adaptation, as well as our determined readiness for the next crisis. Therefore, let me repeat in this Chamber the first framework principle of the fundamentals of our policy, which is as adequate today as almost four years ago: 'The cornerstones of the common values and cooperation between the European Union are trust and solidarity, which Estonia is prepared to contribute to the promotion of. In designing and implementing EU policy 2015/2019, Estonia is based on the principle that the European Union must be strong, it must be open, able to develop and united. Estonia sees the European Union as a solution to the difficult challenges facing us and prefers progress in policy development within the framework of the Treaties, involving as much of the Member States as possible. ' Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The European Union is a unique peace and security project in the history of the world, a political undertaking from the outset and will continue to do so in the future. This year we recalled the 100th anniversary of the end of the bloody first world war. In the wind of this war, empires fell apart, but both the Estonian state and the countries of many other small nations were born, which, in turn, were wiped out of the map by human anti-poverty totalitarian regimes that grew at the cost of even greater suffering. This year, the memorial of the victims of communism opened on Maarjamäe, bearing Paul-Eerik Rummo's words on the entrance: "We will keep together as a frightened colony of bees. ' I do not forget when President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, reported this same poem in July 2017 at the beginning of the Estonian Presidency in the Liberty Square in a clear, resounding and beautiful Estonian language. We and the Poles know very well what it means to lose our unity and cooperation. I agree with both the French President, Emmanuel Macron, and the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, that the protection of my people is a primary and one of the most important preconditions of any political union, and Europe deserves to be protected. The theme of European defence and the important contribution of the Member States is entirely in place. I am extremely pleased that Estonia also contributed to this as one of the priorities of the Presidency and that Estonia's defence cooperation with France and Germany has strengthened considerably. However, at the moment, Europe must first do its work and, among other things, deliver on the promises it has made as an ally. The European Union's steps to support defence cooperation in operational capabilities, joint projects, research cooperation, military mobility, hybrid threats, strategic communication and other areas have been very encouraging and must be completed. The ever closer cooperation between the European Union and NATO will help create synergies with the efforts of the allies and increase society's resilience to new threats. The European Union can certainly take a much stronger picture of a broad-based approach to security and thus contribute even more to the security and well-being of its citizens. The Action Plan on Combating Misinformation, presented freshly by the European Commission and, hopefully, strongly supported by the forthcoming Council, is also an important element in protecting European values and citizens, as free media is one of the main pillars of a democratic society. In recent years, amplified campaigns of lying, hate and intimidation are sawing the branch of a free and open society on which we all sit together. The European Commission, which will be in office after the 2019 elections, must certainly pay even more attention to European security, including the establishment of the closest possible security relationship with the United Kingdom. However, action by the European Union will only be complementary to the efforts of the allies in the coming years. Europe's security remains strong in transatlantic alliances and in the defence capabilities of the Allied States, which must be consistently contributed to in the maintenance and development of which. Very Honourable Riigikogu! 60 years ago, on 1 January 1958, the Treaties of Rome entered into force and created a common market. The single market based on the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union, which grew out of the Treaties of Rome, has been the most effective supporter of the political and economic integration of the continent and also of relations between people since its creation. The people of Estonia are also familiar with these positive changes, above all through expanding and borderless mobility opportunities, but also every day in their pockets. Estonia's level of prosperity is already close to 80% of the European Union average, and the European Union Member States are Estonia's main trading partners, about three quarters of our exports of goods and services go to the European internal market. In the first nine months of this year, Estonian exports to the European Union increased by 7.3%. The European common foreign trade policy has helped Estonian companies to increase their market share beyond the economic union. Estonian exports of goods to third countries have increased from EUR 1 billion to nearly EUR 3.5 billion since 2004. According to the European Commission's recent assessment, 22% of all Estonian jobs are directly linked to the opportunities created by the European Union's trade policy. It is nice to note that this year our exports to the US have grown strongly and that Singapore, with whom the European Union has just signed a trade and investment agreement, has become an important trading partner. Above all, the excellent work of good Estonian entrepreneurs, investors and employees, who have created the products and services that the rest of the world wants, is behind these specific figures. A common internal market and trade policy for the European Union has created opportunities to enter and provide certainty in new markets. Therefore, the rule-based and open global economy is vital to the well-being of Estonian people. The European Union's common external trade policy must continue to stand for maintaining it and creating new opportunities. For example, new generation free trade agreements must create non-discriminatory access for European companies to non-personal and non-personal data from third countries, while ensuring that a person can control the use of data while protecting private life. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A stronger and deeper internal market is in Estonia's interest and creates new opportunities for all European companies to compete on an equal footing in the world. Therefore, together with other Member States that are pro-internal market, we have contributed significantly to political energy so that the internal market operates with as few barriers as possible and without unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles for both citizens and businesses. Undoubtedly, our fingerprints are the most visible in the creation of the European Union's digital internal market. This activity affects the lives and comfort of businesses and citizens at the primary level: the fall in communication costs and roaming charges is the fastest and most visible change. However, the termination of geo-blocking and portability of content, the validity of digital signatures throughout the European Union, the possibility of setting up companies, conducting transactions and settling disputes across borders, and the single digital gateway for access to services in another Member State affect a very large number of people and businesses. Hopefully, by spring, most of the proposed initiatives have been caught up with 29 in total and we can generally say that the market has at least been legally introduced into the digital era. Just multiply this number of rules and markets by 28, and we will get the result of the so-called digital Galapagos effect, which would probably have had a devastating effect on the potential of a digitalising economy and society in Europe. In addition to the market-creating initiatives, the European Commission has put digital development at the heart of the new budget proposal. This is not only in the new EUR 9.2 billion digital Europe programme, but throughout the budget, including by allocating EUR 1.5 billion to the joint AI action plan. In September 2017, the heads of state and government gathered in Tallinn decided to show this direction to digital development. I believe that we have now come to progress that, at least in Europe, we should no longer talk about the internal market and the digital internal market separately from 2019. They are synonymous: for example, the creation of a single European data space from space and transport data to health data is a critical prerequisite for a qualitative leap in the services market. However, the most important change in thinking that has been achieved in recent years is that digital is not a matter of itself, but an instrument to promote the social well-being that is created jointly by civil society and the private and open sector. The technological gap compared to the rest of the world would not only jeopardise our well-being, but would also quickly become an important security problem. I thank the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker, Vice-President Andrus Ansip and all the officials in Estonia and Europe who have contributed to the digital development of the European Union. Dear Riigikogu! It is impossible to talk about the internal market without social and environmental policies that directly affect people's well-being and also values, but also with important enablers such as data, knowledge and innovation, banking and capital markets, energy and associations. The governments of the past have consistently developed Estonia's connection to Europe through infrastructure. I am pleased that, figuratively speaking, the knock has been knocked down for the full legal and physical integration of the gas and electricity markets. It is only recently that I sent a letter to the President of the Commission that it is important to allow market forces and the private sector to play their part in the gas market, as is already the case in the electricity market. On the basis of the decisions of the European Commission and the leaders of the Baltic countries and the system operators, all the possibilities have been created for us to put an end to the past in energy by the middle of the next decade. However, as far as transport connections are concerned, I will first highlight the three Baltic States' declarations in the autumn, which have been unduly hidden, to make Via Baltica suitable for self-steering technology and a 5G network-covered road. Self-guidance and electromobility are certainly already a matter of the near future, supported by both digital and green evolution. But the three Baltic States will also continue to work very actively together to ensure that sufficient funding is available for the construction of Rail Baltic railway connections in the new long-term budget. With regard to the fundamentals of the financing, I would already like to be moderate on the ground of the European Commission's proposal. It is optimistic, but of course funding also depends on the quality of the project's development, as well as its speed. We certainly need to continue our efforts at both the Joint Undertaking and local level in order to keep the project and procurement on schedule. I am particularly pleased that Finland's active participation in the Rail Baltic project, which has been requested for years and which is symbolic, has become tangible. In this context, the debate on the transfer of the northern Finnish rail link to the TEN-T pipeline corridor, as well as the idea of the Estonian-Finnish railway tunnel, has intensified. The agreement on the establishment of Rail Baltic, which was finally approved by the three countries in the Riigikogu last year, means that it is already within our reach and the route must be completed by the middle of the next decade. Rail Baltic is a historic opportunity to ensure better integration of the Nordic and Baltic countries with the rest of Europe, but also to strengthen national, economic and people-to-people contacts between Finland, the Baltic States and Poland, which have just celebrated the 100-year anniversary. Honourable here! Securing a clean living environment is our responsibility to future generations. In recent years, undoubtedly, one of the most fundamental changes was the conclusion of an agreement to curb climate change in the 2030 perspective. I recall that our current objective is to prevent global warming of more than two degrees by 2050. At the same time, the recent report of the International College on Climate Change showed that major negative changes are already coming to mankind in the event of 1.5 degrees of warming. In Estonia, however, there are a lot of things in the context of the environment that we all enjoy for a reason, such as exceptional natural diversity, abundance of forests, clean air and water, but also a system of pawns. However, there are also great 'buts' that convincingly show that in the coming years we must become more environmentally friendly and take bold steps to create new opportunities. The Estonian energy system and transport in Europe are unfortunately in the role of a red lamp in terms of carbon emissions per capita, as well as the growth and use of waste are very important concerns. In the coming decade, then, we must look seriously in the mirror and start organizing our daily lives much more planetaryly. I have often heard the question of whether international efforts are helpful here. I certainly believe it is. And I see no other option than a strong European leadership role to resolve this whole issue concerning humanity. I recall that, thanks to the control measures agreed by 191 countries in the Montreal Protocol of 1987, the ozone layer is slowly recovering over Antarctica. The average and Arctic ozone levels are expected to recover by 2050 and the Antarctic Ozone Hole is expected to disappear between 2060 and 2075. Mankind must also be able to pull itself together to enforce the Paris Agreement. Very Honourable Riigikogu! As the last Council of the year is at the door, I will be brief, if you will allow me, also on migration, UK departure from the European Union and Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, which are on the agenda. As far as migration is concerned, I am pleased that we have achieved control over mass migration flows, both within the European Union and in cooperation with third countries. When we talk about the negotiations on the 'asylum package', it is clear that there will be no agreement on permanent and compulsory migration quotas without dividing Europe. I support the idea proposed by the European Commission that a better sparrow in his hand than a dove on the roof should go further along the road that we are adopting the proposals that are now essential and feasible. Estonia still considers it important that all countries should contribute to the wider assistance of those in need, but relocation must be on a voluntary basis and be one of the possible measures in a crisis situation. Another important issue could be the United Kingdom's agreement to leave the European Union and our future relationship at the Council meeting. The UK Parliament's Lower House will hopefully soon give an initial political assessment of the outcome of the work of the negotiators over the last two years. President Tusk has said that no one can win this process and can only rejoice at the fact that the agreement is, hopefully, an agreement! just got it. And that is the best possible agreement, because it will continue to leave us close partners. I really hope sober mind wins. I believe that we must lay the foundations for a strong future relationship with a close ally, the United Kingdom, and, dear friends, let the possibility of Brexit being reversed in the long term, perhaps once again. I believe that many also have a question of what will happen if there is no exit agreement. I leave it to the UK domestic policy politicians, but I stress that the European Union, including Estonia, is prepared in parallel for the end result without agreement. Hopefully, these contingency plans will remain in the bottom drawer. Thirdly, even at the end of this year, unfortunately, we cannot pass the aggression against Ukraine. Unfortunately, the situation in the occupied areas of Ukraine has not improved and sanctions against Russia need to be extended. I strongly condemn the Russian military attack on three Ukrainian naval vessels in the Strait of Kerch, which resulted in the seizure of Ukrainian ships with crew members. This was a serious violation of Russian international law and aggression against Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity. I strongly support Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and further steps by the United Nations, the European Union and NATO in support of Ukraine. Estonia stands ready to support the extension, extension or strengthening of the European Union's restrictive measures against Russia. Honourable Riigikogu! As this is the last review of this government, I would like to express my thanks both to the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and their hardworking teams for their fruitful cooperation and consensus. Estonia's positions are born in cooperation with the government and, of course, the Riigikogu. I know that you have carried out long analyses and preparations in order to get the work done in the Riigikogu to the people of Estonia better on European Union matters. I would also like to thank the State Chancellery for its involvement. I hope that the Riigikogu, with the mandate of the new people, will be able to deal with these proposals in greater depth. However, I stress that I myself am ready and believe that the leaders of future governments and their members will always be prepared to come before the honourable Riigikogu, or even before committees, to discuss European Union policy and its burning issues. I hope that Estonian politicians will continue to actively explain the need for the unity, understanding and compromises of the European Union, both in our society and more broadly. I would also like to thank all our good friends and partners, all the ambassadors and embassies for your support, your understanding and very good and strong cooperation. I conclude by quoting the beautiful words of the Irish musician, the soloist Bono of the U2 band: 'The values and aspirations of Europe are much more than just geography. These values and aspirations go straight to the core of who we are as people and what we would like to become. The European idea deserves us to write songs about him and wave flags. In order to survive these difficult times, the idea of Europe must also become a feeling. " I wish all of us every success on this emotional journey! I sincerely wish strength to Europe and to the beloved Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U6	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Opening a round of questions without a time limit, the only restriction is that each member of the Riigikogu can ask one oral question. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You said today, and you have also said in connection with the preparation of the Council meeting, that sanctions against Russia relating to aggression in the Kerch Strait must be strengthened and extended. At yesterday's Annual Conference on Human Rights, these issues were also discussed and the position remained that these individualised sanctions are the most effective. As you well know, a number of Estonian public figures, including three members of the Riigikogu, have been banned from entering Russia for incomprehensible political reasons. Among them is the questioner. Please tell me, how do you assess this situation as Prime Minister? And how do you assess the possibility of us reciprocating? I am thinking of the politicians of the State Duma, who have recognised and praised Kerch's aggression, and those who carried it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U8	Thank you for that question. I certainly do not consider it justified that the members of the Estonian Riigikogu have entered this list as you said, three people, including you. I certainly resent that. If you ask me how I appreciate the possibility of imposing sanctions, as I said in my speech, it is not just a question of extending sanctions. Estonia has also requested to expand and improve them. It is very difficult to say today what exactly it means. This, I suppose, means restrictions on certain people entering the European Union. How likely is that? As many as these discussions have taken place, it is known that there are countries that consider it right to extend sanctions, and Estonia is certainly prepared to hold a discussion on this. But is it also realistic that they will be expanded here today to give a final answer to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U9	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Today, Tartu Postimees had a very interesting interview with Vahur Einberg, who is helping the children of Ukraine, and I would like to quote him here in the Riigikogu Hall. He has this feeling that Ukraine is fighting a great empire of evil for the whole of Europe. And I feel like I owe them, he says. How am I not gonna help them if I have a chance and if I see those videos where the fallen boys from Ukraine are brought to the village and the whole village is on its knees? How can I not help them? In your speech you said today that Estonia is ready to support the extension of the European Union's restrictive measures. Why is the Estonian Government still becoming so lean and not saying that it is calling for further sanctions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U11	Thank you, Mr. Kruuse! I understand you're trying to play with some political words here. I can say the sentence that Estonia supports and has proposed tough sanctions. But the question is how likely we are to talk about additional sanctions. There are really sanctions for individuals. The question is, what is the extent of this possibility that they will actually materialise? This is not the question today of whether Estonia supports sanctions or not. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has said its explanation, which I also heard yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The Estonian Government has confirmed its positions. I said this here today in my speech, and the people of our External Action Service are working for it. But the question is whether or not 28 countries are behind it. It's too early to assess today. I understand that when asked in this Chamber of Riigikogu, especially if your party members ask, I need to put ten more times in my word to the degree so that you can believe them. In fact, I said very specifically that Estonia really considers it right to extend and supplement these sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U12	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U13	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! I believe that the most important challenges facing the European Union are to address the value conflicts that are increasingly taking place in different countries. You mentioned trust as a keyword, I would tie it to the foundations of democracy. Russia is undermining the independence of sovereign states through its actions. You referred to the prevention of misinformation as one of the methods to act against it. Can you still bring forward the measures currently under discussion at European Union level? How can the foundations of democracy still be protected? After all, this could be one of the most real outputs of the European Union today. And what are Estonia's concrete initiatives and proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U14	Thank you. As far as the value conflicts you have noted are concerned, that is absolutely right. There is a war going on in Ukraine, and I would add that we must certainly also fight terrorism and deal with the whole spectrum of migration issues, which I also noted in my speech, as well as preventing the dissemination of false news and half-sisters. I'd like to bring Brexit to this list. In this process, too, half-sisters have sounded. The action plan on misinformation has certainly also been our initiative. I think that this cyber policy is our long-term policy and, of course, all the measures involved in a hybrid war are important. These are certainly aspects to which we must draw attention when talking about these values.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U15	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U16	Thank you, Prime Minister. Of course, the European Union must respond more forcefully to the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, and here I call on you to convince your partymates here in the Riigikogu, who have failed to vote on some very fundamental statements, as well as on committees, to make these Estonian views considerably less difficult. I hope that this will change in Estonia someday. But my question is about a completely different subject. This year's Eurobarometer showed that the number of people in Estonia who believe that Estonia's voice has a weight at the level of the European Union has fallen sharply. Less than a fifth of people believe that this is the case. Of course, it may be to blame that some members of the European Parliament are swimming against the Estonian official line, but I believe that there is a role and responsibility for the government here too. Do you see any role in this or why?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U17	Thank you, good questioner! I think that this issue is very fundamental and requires a longer answer, because it is important. He will, like, relate to the previous question about values. You are right to make a statement, especially when it comes to foreign policy. At the same time, sadly, of course, the vote in Parliament is free of the status of a member of the Riigikogu. However, I will give an example of a recent question concerning the migration framework: the biggest political forces in this Chamber failed to shape their position. You've been at the State Race for 17 years at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Stenbock House and the Department of Defense. You know how important it is to keep the line of foreign policy and how fragile it all is. And the fact that you did not give up one or the other position was certainly a very bad signal in terms of foreign policy. We all have to report in front of our constituents in this Chamber. I want to say from this speech chair of the Riigikogu I have no right to say this to you as members of the Riigikogu, but I can tell the voters of the Reform Party that I am defending the foreign policy values that Estonia has been on the right track to pursue. Your constituents can also be sure that I will. We're shaping a position, and we're going to say it. I now come to the second part of your question: it was about Estonia in connection with the Eurobarometer survey. First of all, you are, apart from numbers, of course, on this point, I congratulate you, Mr. Clothes, but, as far as I know, this latest Eurobarometer survey showed that almost 79% supports being in the European Union. Estonia did this survey at the end of last year. These questions also always determine the level of support among the Russian-speaking population, and I am very pleased that this percentage was also very high. If my memory doesn't fool me, it was close to 69%. You also asked about the role of Prime Minister. I would like to say that I think it is very important to point out and this task I do not only associate with the Prime Minister, but with the entire Estonian administration, the Riigikogu and the government, which took the initiative during our Presidency. These were very fundamental initiatives. I would say that these were very big ideas that found the support of 28 countries or a very large majority of them. I called it September. To be more precise, it was September 29th, when the leaders of the European Union, both Heads of State and Government, discussed digital science here in beautiful Estonia and our beloved city of Tallinn. And let's be honest, I think it was a groundbreaking moment for progress on digital issues, progress on digital society, progress on artificial intelligence. This has certainly been the area in which Estonia has been the spokesperson. And if you want to attack the current Prime Minister or Government through the flowers with your question, I will support you, Mr. Clothes. You too did a very good job in the digital field as Prime Minister. I also explicitly mentioned the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Ansip, as the second, the first, the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker. Estonia has been a very strong advocate in this area and we can be proud of it. As far as statistics are concerned, it must be monitored, but I think life is more on the streets, between people and not in the Excel tables. It's always been your faith, hope and love, but I don't know if it's right to contribute. Now, you are asking about the major initiatives that Estonia has taken, and that is a very fundamental question. Once again, we are taking the Estonian Presidency of the Defence Dimension. After all, it was Estonia that led to the idea that most European countries would cooperate in an in-depth manner in defence. One example: the creation of the same PESCO. It was created during the Estonian Presidency, if I am not mistaken, in December. Then our last Commander of the Defence Forces was active. General Terras with four stars gave a speech in front of all the leaders. This has been an initiative in Estonia. The whole area of cybertematics, cyber defence, this is an area where Estonia has spoken very strongly and where it is in a strong position. You asked about me personally. I have, I suppose, modestly supported the activities on these issues, found allies and did this during the Presidency. I would also like to say what I have done personally, and I would also advise you to do if there is some time left in the campaign: go meet the students in Estonian schools. I have given quite a lot of lessons in schools, talked about the Estonian Presidency, talked about what our positive initiatives have been. We have also organised popular meetings all over Estonia. I have also taken advantage of the excellent opportunity that has been offered by the European Parliament. President Tajani has taken the initiative that the Heads of State or Government of Europe should go to the European Parliament to talk about the vision for the future. It has been a great honour for me to be present in Strasbourg, to be admitted, three times. Indeed, twice of these were related to the Estonian Presidency. But I also got to talk about the subject that the German chancellor spoke about in November and the President of Romania before him. So they have been these initiatives and, of course, they are only a few of the things I dealt with in response to your comprehensive question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U18	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U19	Good Prime Minister! You mentioned in your speech that we have also been successful in international scientific cooperation. However, Estonia is the only Member State of the European Union other than Greece that has not found the resources from its budget to participate in the European Union's Eurostars programme. It is a programme that encourages research and development cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union. My question is: do you think it is right that Estonia is sidelined by Eurostars, and if it is not, do you intend to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U20	Thank you. First of all, I think that if we take the new budget period 2021+ of the European Union, we will see much more attention and much more, say, commitment to science, innovation, education. This direction is definitely strongly supported by Estonia. Now that we are talking about the integration of science in relation to Estonia, the fact that Estonia is even more active in this area would take a more active part, I think it is right. I will give an example, which is not directly related to the European Union: Estonia has made all the necessary preparations and also provided for money in the budget to join CERN. We want to become a full member of CERN, precisely because we want to exploit our educational and research potential on the one hand and economic cooperation on the other. So in any case, I think that greater integration is important, and Estonia supports it. Unfortunately, I cannot provide information on this particular project on an ongoing basis. I will certainly answer you in writing on this. And if we take the Horizon programme for example, Estonia will benefit greatly from it and will also support the plan for the budgetary period 2021+.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U21	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister, thank you for your speech. I am not going to comment on this right now, but I am going to ask you a simple question. You repeatedly stressed the need for a strong Europe: allied relations, Germany-France. Everything is nice, beautiful and nice, and it's your opinion, and let it be yours. But just a brief comment. When Russia made an aggression in the Strait of Kerch, the Austrian Presidency of the European Union immediately put on the table an alternative to the possible tightening of sanctions. The first countries to strongly reject it were Germany and France. I would ask for your assessment of this behaviour. How does this strengthen Estonia's position in the European Union and also the protection of European countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U23	Thank you. First of all, how will the German and French axes and their initiatives not strengthen European defence? I don't know if you just listened to my answer to the previous question... Sorry, the one before the day before, not Mrs. Sulling, but Mr. Clothes. I was talking about this, for example, in the case of the same PESCO we created, it was both a German and a French initiative. France has now come up with a new dimension of the crisis of protection within the European Union, which is even stronger. I want to say that I think these two countries are very strongly contributing to this work. As I have already said, we will discuss the issue of sanctions at our Council meeting, which will take place at the end of this week. Estonia's position is clear and other countries will also shape their position in the coming days.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U24	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I wasn't going to speak at all or ask a question, but the nature of your answers, your lack of reply, your wit, your superior teaching of the political groups of the Riigikogu, what they have done wrong and how they should report to their voters, it reminds me of Nursultan Nazarbayev. The state is not your sluggishness, and the political groups here have become different terms of reference from those of your group, each with his or her own electorate, each with his or her own mandate. I'll just call you back. I would also like to remind you that the idea of not asking you questions in Question Time is already moving in the opposition, because we can only get an arrogant, arrogant teaching in response. Pay attention! This is my message as a vigilante to you. But the question is: how does our long-term foreign policy course match those of our southern neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania? They don't join the migration framework?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U26	Thank you. First of all, I certainly thank you for the tirate that sounded at the beginning, and I wish you a great deal of strength in your work. There's nothing else to add to that. But speaking of Latvia, I hope that Latvia will have a government shortly after the elections, that a candidate for Prime Minister will be found, who will receive support. I hope that Latvia will have a functioning government in this way. The course related to the Estonian migration framework has been one and the same for as long as I have had the honour of being in my current position. And that will remain so in the future, at least I wish it. When we talk about refugees and migration quotas, all this can happen only on a voluntary basis. After all, Estonia, during its Presidency, proposed that the consent of the host country be certain. The area to which Estonia has contributed very significantly and wishes to contribute in the future is all that concerns the protection of external borders, as well as support for African countries and good cooperation with Turkey, for example. After all, the European Union's migration policy has produced concrete results and I do not think that we can talk about the crisis anymore. Compared to the peak in October 2015, the number of irregular border crossings has decreased by 95%. It's been quite an effort. In terms of the migration framework, the three Baltic States do not really share the same views. Lithuania, as far as I know, is of the same opinion as Estonia, Latvia is of the same opinion. It's every country's decision. Estonia will certainly oppose mass immigration; we will not support refugee quotas; we will continue to support volunteering. And, of course, illegal migration must get some kind of framework, and I think the migration framework is the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will continue with my question just where you have just finished. In the context of the UN Migration Framework, much was said about the need for readmission agreements with the countries of origin. What is the European Union's chance of concluding accelerated readmission agreements with African countries, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U28	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U29	Thank you. Between 2015 and 2017, 692000 illegally staying third-country nationals have been returned from the European Union. However, the effectiveness of return remains insufficient. On average, only 40% of those who have received a return decision have been returned within three years. And since the success of return also depends much on the willingness of third countries to cooperate, the return policy must be more linked to visa, trade and development cooperation policies. Cooperation with third countries must be based on the principle: more for more. The European Union's aid measures must provide incentives for the implementation of readmission agreements and, of course, for new ones. Sanctions against a third country shall also be applied where appropriate. It is also important to strengthen the role of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in organising return. I think that when we negotiate the Cotonou Agreement, we will also touch on broad-based relations with Africa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U30	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U31	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! You have gone against the Estonian people, of whom only a quarter think that the migration agreement should be approved. You have gone against our main foreign policy ally, the United States, who thinks that the migration agreement should not be approved. You do not share the position of the Austrian Presidency of the European Union, which is the same as that of the former. And I'm asking you, what kind of foreign policy line do you really have when you think that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U32	Thank you, sweet Peter! I think I can say that because we have been in one party, and in the previous 2015 elections, the people of Estonia also gave you votes. True, only so much that it was enough as an alternate to come to the Riigikogu. But those people who then supported you supported the middle party views. They supported us in Estonia to stand up for solidarity, for a united society, for eliminating inequality, for no one to be left behind. You've made your choice, you've left the Centre Party. Now I see you in the EKRE lines. And I understand that if you were to report to your voters across Estonia, it would certainly be difficult for you to do so. Why did you abandon these principles and adopt different principles? You are asking what is the main line of Estonian foreign policy. This has been very certainly what we have agreed on in the early, mid and late 1990s. This is definitely because we have a strong transatlantic relationship. I also see the people of the United States embassy here, and I want to say that I am very happy that we really have a very close relationship with the United States. Let's just take last year: I thought it was great that the Vice President of the United States, Mr Pence, visited Estonia that Speaker Ryan visited Estonia. Or we'll take this year: Ämaris, we often see U.S. fighters and military personnel. Surely this good cooperation and commitment is extremely important to us, not only here on 45,000 square kilometers, but also on the outside. Estonia must act actively with its allies. We will take Afghanistan, where we will work with the United States. The second big dimension, which is important for Estonia and what this whole review of today is about, is the European Union. There are Estonia and 27 other countries. Yes, I say on purpose: Estonia and 27, sum 28. I don't want to talk about 30 March 2019 because I don't like it, it makes me sad. But you asked what the Estonian foreign policy line was. Our goal is to be an active member of NATO, but of course to be an active member of the European Union as well. And we can see Estonia's contribution in this regard. I've been telling you what our foreign policy line is all over today's speech and answers. The third point is bilateral relations. Bilateral relations in economic policy have been good for us, but there is still much potential. I think that both the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the EAS, we must all work harder. Of course, we also ask for the assistance of the Riigikogu. If we take the area of security, then there are currently 48 Estonian fighters in Mali, for example, in Africa, where the mission of Barkhane is taking place, if I am not mistaken, with French, British and Spanish troops. These are examples of Estonian activity in bilateral relations. Of course, I can't go over or around the fact that we want air security to continue in Ämari. I am very pleased that Germany has decided to make two rotations here. It's something very special! Let's think about ten years ago! The same EPB, I think, was only dared to dream of it. Today it's a reality, Mr. Ernits. British soldiers, Danish soldiers. Well, I don't know how beautiful it is to point your finger at the mind. That should mean you're saying I'm stupid. I'm not telling you what your body language just said. I say you are a good member of the Riigikogu and I wish you strength! But if you ask a question, don't show another person that he's stupid. It's not pretty! Listen well to the answer. Maybe it's a new manner of behavior for you in your new home, but I don't think it's nice to express yourself in body language like you just did. But I will certainly bring out our good allies in North Baltic cooperation, which is a strong foreign policy feature. I am very pleased that a few weeks or perhaps a little more than a month ago, there was a meeting of Prime Ministers of the Nordic and Baltic countries in Oslo, Norway, plus Prime Minister Theresa May of the United Kingdom. There was such a cooperation format. The main question was how we could better apply artificial intelligence in medicine, in treating people with severe diseases, and ensure the safe flow of data. Surely there is no over or around the UN issue. After all, we are currently campaigning very actively to become non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2020-2021. Elections should take place at the beginning of summer 2019. So, Mr Ernits, if you can use your foreign policy contacts, then use and ask them to support Estonia. In the cyber field, Estonia has a great deal to give in the UN Security Council. I recommend both you and EKRE, use your contacts as well! These are all important elements of our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U33	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to follow certain internal rules in this most important Chamber in Estonia. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I will read in the overview: 'We are working intensively to achieve faster cross-border enforcement of future judicial decisions in family matters. At the moment, it is necessary to complete the settlement in another Member State through a cost-added and time-consuming interim phase of the declaration of enforceability that we wish to eliminate. ' What kind of problems do we have? Is there something wrong with family law compared to other European countries? Are our marriages not recognised elsewhere, or what are these things that need to be abolished quickly? Is the problem that maybe family law is still our only law that we have? What's our problem with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U35	Mr Põldaru, first of all, I would like to thank you for this matter and for this reasonable communication, where you did not use body language like the previous questioner. I want to say so much that, if you will allow me, I will certainly give you a thorough written answer. At the moment, I can tell you that, as far as I know, the recognition of these judgments takes too long. It has to go faster and easier. But if you need to change anything in the Estonian Code, I will send you a more detailed answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U36	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U37	Thank you. I must say, I was extremely embarrassed to hear the answer to my benchmate, Peter Ernitsa. You talked about everything else and blamed him, and not a word answered his question. You should be embarrassed. You're not just here to give us a bubble. But my question concerns the agreement on the migration pact in Marrakech. A large number of countries were present. According to the newspapers, Estonia was also there to approve it, but yesterday you argued at the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ELAK that Estonia was not there. What is the real situation then: has Estonia approved it or has Estonia not approved it? After all, the government had no mandate to empower anyone to do so. What's the status?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U38	Thank you. No, on the contrary, I answered your benchmate very specifically. He told me in body language I was stupid. I said it's not nice to do that. And I commended Ernitsa and wished her strength. I gave him a very specific answer. Now that you are asking what Estonia's position is and what will happen now, I understand that basically the EKRE and Reform Party are on the same page on this issue. I will answer you specifically: the Riigikogu has made a supportive decision to join the Migration Framework. If I am not mistaken, 41 members of the Riigikogu voted for it. This is what Estonia expects on 19 December 2018 when the UN General Assembly is held in New York, U.S.A.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U39	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U40	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! As a former teacher and headmaster, I find this discussion extremely difficult to hear. This unprofessional text by the Reform Party and the EKRE does not suffer any criticism. There is some kind of regulation that asks questions, and there is a rule on how to answer. I know, thanks to the yellow book, that the waitress has an understanding of answering questions, and that must be respected. It was like a procedural remark.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U42	Prime Minister, there are no further questions for you. I now call on the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Toomas Vitsut. The duration of the report is up to 20 minutes, then a round of questions is foreseen. Every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one oral question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I am pleased to be again before you in order to give an overview of the key issues on which we have been focusing in the Committee on European Union Affairs over the last year. Our policy debate on the European Union today has been marked by time. Hopefully, the UK Parliament's Lower House will soon vote on the European Union's exit agreement, which will decide on future relations. It is necessary to decide whether the United Kingdom will leave the European Union on 29 March 2019 with solid cooperation or chaos. I would like my colleagues in the British Parliament to have a common sense and pragmatism in making this decision, calmly assessing what is more beneficial to the UK economy in a political storm and, of course, to the UK citizens. As Theresa May has said, this is an agreement that takes into account both the people who voted in favour of leaving the European Union and the people who have voted in favour of staying in the European Union in the Brexit referendum. The unity of the 27 EU Member States has been remarkably strong in the context of Brexit. Moreover, the Brexit referendum has increased the support of the European Union. The results of the Eurobarometer survey carried out in September show that support for membership of the European Union is greater than ever. In Estonia, 74% of the population in the European Union, on average 62%, is supporting membership of the European Union, which is the highest figure in the last 25 years. For Estonia, the United Kingdom will continue to be a close partner and friend in Europe and an ally in NATO. It is in all our interests that the United Kingdom should continue to have good trade relations with the European Union in the future. Estonia has also attached particular importance to continuing cooperation with the United Kingdom in foreign and security policy, as well as in the digital field. Estonia's digitally-smart start-ups have successfully confirmed to wear in the UK. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Negotiations have begun on the multiannual framework for the next European Union budget period. Austria has maintained a good pace when discussing the issue as the Presidency of the European Union and, by the end of the Presidency, the major political disputes between the Member States should be mapped out. Estonia receives 4.5 billion more subsidies from today's European Union's seven-year budget than the budget itself pays. The European Union's subsidies have contributed to the competitiveness of our economy, infrastructure, environmental protection, education and social affairs throughout Estonia's European integration. In a situation where the size of the European Union budget is threatened by the British leaving, it is in Estonia's interest to support a policy that would increase the contributions of the Member States to it. This position and our shared responsibility for the future of the Community are also expressed in the positions of the Estonian budgetary framework on the basis of which we are negotiating in the European Union. Estonia has promised to be prepared to increase its contribution to the budget of the European Union so that the budget of the European Union does not shrink. In budgetary negotiations, we stand for a greater unity of the Union, enabling all Member States to participate in the internal market. We attach importance to funding to address the challenges of migratory pressure and to support the less developed regions of the European Union. It is important that the European Union reduces and finally eliminates inequalities in the level of direct payments to agriculture. The large differences in the level of subsidies are not justified in the context of similar inputs such as equipment, fuel and fertiliser prices. In budgetary negotiations, it is important to ensure that Estonian farmers have a level playing field with their counterparts in other Member States. I would like to pay special attention to cooperation in the field of education and youth at all, which is financed from the European Union budget. Erasmus has become a synonym for a single European educational space. More than 5400 universities have joined Erasmus. Over 6500 students have participated in mobility through Erasmus in Estonia over the last two years. Estonia stands for the student exchange to continue and, if possible, increase in the next budget period. Good friends! Just a year ago, we held the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and were able to influence the shaping of the European Union's policies from direct leadership. Looking back at the Estonian Presidency, we can be proud: we kept Europe on a steady and forward course. The European Union's energy policy is one of those areas where Estonia is still affected. We have contributed to the creation of the European Union's Energy Union and thereby to a more secure, affordable and sustainable energy. It is a pleasure to note that negotiations on the clean energy package are coming to an end at European Union level, which should also mention Estonia's contribution. Of the most important breakthroughs, I would highlight the agreements reached in June this year on energy efficiency and renewable energy. Under the new rules agreed, by 2030 at least 32% of the energy consumed in the Union must come from renewable sources, i.e. solar or wind energy. There is also a consensus within the European Union to increase energy efficiency by 32.5% by 2030, while facilitating the production, storage and consumption of green energy by households themselves. The political agreement reached this summer to synchronise the Baltic electricity systems with the Central European frequency band cannot be overlooked. We have been more ambitious at times than the commitments made by the Paris Agreement. There is no doubt that the European Union is an example in the fight against climate change. However, our common concern is that climate change is happening at a much faster pace than expected. To achieve results tomorrow, what is important is what we are doing today. As American President Barack Obama has said: 'We are the first generation to feel the effects of climate change and the last generation to be able to do something about it. ' The year 2018 is a sign because the COP24 international climate conference currently taking place in Poland aims to reach a consensus on how to implement the commitment of the Paris climate agreements in 2015 to limit the rise in temperature and prevent global warming. The European Union's role is to be a conservative partner in these talks and to set common goals with the countries that are parties to the climate agreement, because we need cooperation from all countries to successfully overcome climate change. Yeah, we're gonna race time, but I'm still hopeful. One part of the solution lies in innovation and new approaches. It is important to invest in the development of digital society, including e-services, artificial intelligence and cyber security. Estonia has been one of the strongest advocates of digital society in the European Union. We must make an effort to maintain this position in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The task of the Riigikogu is to bring the subjects of the European Union closer to the citizens, thereby ensuring the legitimacy of the decision-making of the European Union. In the last two meetings of the Commission, we have considered whether, in order to better fulfil our role, we should change something to the Riigikogu's procedure for dealing with European Union affairs, which has remained the same since 2004. As chairman of the committee, I would like to highlight a few ideas, apart from these discussions. In order to strengthen the level of processing of European Union affairs in the Riigikogu, one possible solution is to appoint so-called rapporteurs, or rapporteurs, to the proposed European Union initiatives. The task of the rapporteur would be to carry out a thorough examination of the specific initiative of the European Union, and should also play the role of spokesperson in shaping the position of the Riigikogu to the government for negotiation. If the aim is to make Parliament's work more visible to European Union affairs, formal debates after European Council meetings should be launched, in cooperation with the Prime Minister, in plenary sittings of Parliament, as is the case in Germany or Sweden, for example. However, in order to better plan the work of the Riigikogu in the field of European Union affairs, we should also consider the European Commission's annual legislative programme, in which we should consider which issues should be interfered with by raising the principle of subsidiarity. During the few months remaining until the end of Parliament's XIII term of office, it is probably not possible to get enough into this matter and to conclude the discussions, but the initiative has certainly been taken for the new composition. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! According to a recent Eurobarometer survey, 76% of Estonians believe that their voice does not matter in the European Union. However, the results of this same study have shown that there is great support for membership of the European Union in Estonia. At the beginning of my speech, I stated that this support was 74%. The responsibility for explaining policies in the European Union lies with national parliaments. The ongoing preparations for Riigikogu elections and the ongoing campaign before the elections provide a good opportunity to explain European Union policies alongside many other issues. I would like to call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to take advantage of this opportunity in our election campaign for a better future. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U44	A round of questions will be opened in Taavi's garment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U45	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for this very balanced speech. So well-balanced that at the end you called for a better future. It was all very nice! But my question is motivated by the subject you mentioned at the end of your speech. There is one question that it is not fair to ask the Government if we do not ask ourselves that question, that is, the members of the European Union and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. What can we, as members of these committees or as a parliament as a whole, do to make sure there are more people who believe that the voice of Estonia will actually be heard? I know we've been discussing these issues at ELAK under your leadership, so maybe you'll open it up a little bit more?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U46	Thank you for your question. I consider this subject to be extremely important. Now, if we look around this hall a little bit, we can see that several seats are empty. It is empty to discuss the issues I have just stressed. In fact, we should start by being aware, among ourselves in this Parliament, of the importance of the issues that are decided at European Union level and of the direct impact these decisions at European Union level have on our lives. Now, what is a good recipe or what is a good plan of action? I don't have a smart answer. I recall that we have been discussing this for quite a long time, and this was also one of the priorities of the discussions we held during the Presidency. At the same time, this issue was also a priority before our Presidency and after our Presidency in Bulgaria. It was also important at the COSAC plenary session in Austria, where we last discussed these issues with our colleagues. And there's no very specific recipe here. We have talked about the fact that we need to talk more about these policies, the issues we are discussing at European Union level, both in our Parliament and to our voters. It's such a general suggestion. Of course, a better reflection of some kind of issue requires greater activity, this is a very clear link. But if you ask me what the first, second and third steps might be, here I am indebted to the answer. At the COSAC plenary session, the question arose of how the interest in issues discussed in such a forum could be enhanced. That is where I proposed that the work of COSAC be a little reformed and that the decisions adopted there should not only remain in this circle, but also be linked to resolving some particular issue after a certain decision is taken. In essence, the question is that if anything is decided at the COSAC plenary session, will something happen after that? If people do not see the link between what is being discussed and what happens afterwards, it will eventually undermine the authority of this discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U47	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this review. My question concerns the work of the Committee on European Union Affairs. You have led this Commission, and here you have rightly emphasised, that explaining the policies of the European Union to the people must actually begin here in Parliament. If you now look back on the immediate end of the term of office of the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs, what have been the major policies, the topics of discussion, the subject of debate on which you have been able to work in the committee in such a way that you can say for yourself that yes, it went well and we would have been prepared to come to the big hall with this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U49	Thank you for that question. I cannot say that among the issues we have discussed in the Committee on European Union Affairs, there would have been irrelevant issues. Those priorities that I considered important, I mentioned in my report. On the one hand, however, in the Committee on European Union Affairs, we do not choose the topics on which we are working. These issues actually depend very much on what is being decided at European Union level and on how the government, or ministers, has prepared them for us. Of course, as Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs, and probably any other member of the Commission, I have issues that are of greater interest or would like to be dealt with in greater depth. To give examples, here we have already mentioned the budgetary framework for the next financing period, which I believe is one of the key issues for the future of the European Union. And to put another indicator aside, which is extremely topical in view of the longer development of the European Union, it is certainly Brexit. What is happening with our good partners, the British, should be very important to us. The way they resolve these issues will also depend very much on the future of the European Union. As I have already pointed out, in the two years that I have led the European Union Commission, the concern has been that we have done quite a lot of work in the European Union Commission, but too little of this information reaches the ordinary Estonian people. We all need to think about how we can better get what is happening in the European Union to the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U50	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U51	Good manager! Good waitress! The Estonian Government has gone on to approve the migration agreement against its people, has gone against its main political ally, has gone against the Austrian Presidency of the European Union, has gone another way with many Eastern European countries and also with our Baltic neighbours. I asked the Prime Minister about this, unfortunately he has lost all adequacy, lives in his bubble and does not answer any real questions. You're adequate, accurate. Please answer that question I asked!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U52	Thank you, Peter, for this question. I'm trying to be more specific when I answer you. This agreement has both proponents and opponents in Estonia, and this agreement has both proponents and opponents at international level. I'll start with international level. Now, if I am right in my head, about 180 of the 193 members of the United Nations, I know, are supporting this framework agreement, or compact. There is no common view that it is either very clearly opposed or very clearly in favour of it. If we look at these figures, we'll see that they'd rather be in favour of it. And my gut tells me that it is in favour that this framework allows for a debate on a subject that is probably one of the sharpest in today's globalised world. Our allies are among both those who are in favour of this Treaty and those who oppose it. So we probably cannot say that if the US did not support this agreement and France, for example, supports it, then we have done something wrong with our allies. There are still differences of opinion on different issues, and I believe that this is perfectly normal in a democratic world. So I don't take this question the way you suggested when you asked me that we've betrayed someone. No, from my point of view, we haven't betrayed anyone. That's one. Secondly, as regards the debate on this UN resolution in Estonian society, it has been very emotional. I respect the views of those who have opposed this Treaty, and I respect the views of those who have been in favour of it. We discussed this for quite a while here in the Riigikogu, we voted on it and, as a result of the vote, the majority of the Riigikogu supported this agreement and also supported it to express this support at international level. However, it seems to me that the debate has not ended at all. We can certainly discuss this further. And it has been repeated a lot, but I want to say once again my personal position and, in fact, the position of the whole European Union Affairs Committee: we are opposed to any kind of mass immigration. Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U53	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U54	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! I come back to the role of the Riigikogu in discussing European Union policies. We will implement the European Union's policy when we decide on the transposition of directives in the various committees. Unfortunately, there is cooperation with ministries, which should allow Parliament to discuss the transposition of directives within a reasonable time, at times totally ligadi-logadi. Has the Committee on European Union Affairs, where there are representatives of other committees, dealt with this matter in depth and discussed it also on the procedural side? What have your conclusions and guidelines been for committees and ministries?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U55	Thank you for your question. Yeah, we've been over this. In fact, on every item on the agenda, I, as the chairman of the committee, have a question as to whether the subject we are going to discuss has been detained somewhere for an unreasonable time or whether the time allowed for processing has been optimal. There are questions we have had enough time to discuss. There are questions that have to be decided very quickly. But rather haste has come from the fact that the timetable is given to us with the same pace of decision-making as it is at European Union level. And this is the 'take it or leave it' situation: if you want to have a say and make a statement, you have to make quick decisions from time to time. I can assure you that I have not noticed any malicious delay, that somewhere there has been a malicious retention of a subject, and that this debate in the Committee on European Union Affairs has been lightly or brief. At the same time, as I noted in my report, as we will soon have this composition to finish our work and in March the new Riigikogu will begin, it is worthwhile how to deal with matters in the European Union Affairs Committee, discuss them properly at the beginning of the work of the new Riigikogu and conduct the whole process. If we come to this Chamber more often with certain questions and discuss these issues in a larger circle, this will certainly work well for a thorough examination of the issues. This information would also better reach the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U56	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! A small reminder in view of your answer to the previous question: 41 votes are not the majority of the Riigikogu. You said the majority voted in favour. But my question is this: has Britain's departure from the European Union changed in some way the minds of the leaders of the European Union and the federalisation so far is being pulled back a little bit, or is everything going the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U58	Thank you for your question. However, I disagree with you: 41 votes are not a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu; 41 votes in favour are simply a majority of the votes. But as far as Brexit is concerned, it seems to me that the result of the British referendum has changed something at the top of the European Union or at least led to thinking. However, there are quite specific reasons why the British voted that the result of the referendum was such. One of these is probably the migratory pressure that was at the time of the referendum. At the beginning of the migratory pressure, the very strong attitude that we are trying to cope with migration was that we share all those arriving in the European Union among the Member States. Today, there is a shift from this point of view to the view that stronger controls must be carried out at the external borders of the European Union and we must make illegal migration legal. We must be able to control what is happening at the borders and to resolve migration issues before migrants arrive in the European Union. I think this is a concrete example of what has happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U59	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U60	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! First of all, Thomas, I want to thank you for the very clear answers you rarely hear about such matters. But I want to ask you, too. 41 votes in favour have been mentioned several times in this Chamber. How's that really going to work? Six parties are in the hall and only two parties supported it. Is it really the majority when the three parties opposed and the fourth escaped from the hall for the moment of the vote? Maybe the fifty-fifty situation would've been. But even the windows didn't support this bill. And our country's stronger partners and neighbouring countries, the other Baltic countries, do not support it. I wrote one morning on Facebook that I wanted to be Latvian today. And now it's Lithuanian, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U61	Thank you for that question. As far as voting is concerned, if 41 votes are in favour and 41 votes against, that is a clear result. Of course, I accept that your party, Fatherland, had a different view. I have not tried in any way to incriminate you of this position, but in democracy, it is still costing what the ratio of votes in favour and against will ultimately be as a result of the vote. And that's what happened this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U62	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U63	Thank you. The United Nations is known to consist mainly of third-world countries that are poor and corrupt. Most are dictatorship countries, where the birth rate is even cosmic. And no doubt they breathe with relief on such a deal, so it is good for them to get rid of the so-called redundant people. But if those who are in favour of this agreement confirm that it is completely non-binding, it does not impose anything at all, and yet they say that it somehow solves the problems of migrants' return, how is it intended to solve this matter and make it compulsory for these many pariah countries? It doesn't tie them in any way, they whistle at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U64	Thank you. I'd like to start at the end of your question. You said it yourself, this agreement is neither binding nor binding. 'Agreement' maybe it is a bit wrong to say about it, it is a platform for discussion. There are 101 people elected in this Chamber who have almost everyone's understanding on the issues we are discussing in this Chamber, each of us seeing some kind of problem from his own perspective. Why, then, should we think that in the United Nations, where there are so many different countries, there is unanimity in discussing complex issues and there is only pro or opposition. The UN is an excellent platform for raising and discussing various issues. Resolutions will be adopted there, initiatives will be taken to start a debate on some issue. There are countries in different positions, be they from Europe, Africa or America, and these countries are not worth denouncing them in any way to say that they are corrupt, they are not fit to come to the table at all, they are not worthy to discuss any issue with them. Our difference with you may be that we take this process differently. As I said, we are similar in the sense that neither I nor my party supports any kind of mass migration and the introduction of migrants, and that is exactly what you have said. But the difference between us is that we are ready to discuss how to solve this problem. The solution to the problem cannot be that we say, 'No, we don't talk to you'. This isn't gonna get anywhere. And this is just the beginning of this process, this is not the end of this process. Once again, we will be able to discuss this matter again and again, both here in the Riigikogu and at international level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U65	Dear waitress, thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. Taavi Rõivas, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! In fourteen and a half years, Estonia has become a country that can make a very detailed contribution to all issues in the decision-making bodies of the European Union. And for that, I will bow deeply to our professional civil servants and diplomats. Starting with synchronising positions and ending with representing Estonia at thousands of meetings in Brussels or in the Presidency, all this has been done very well. Thank you very much, officials dealing with European affairs at the State Chancellery, ministries, permanent representation and right here in the Riigikogu! The backside of the Estonian representatives is always certain, and I know from my own hands that, be it the Council or, for example, the Council of Health Ministers, the professional support is rock-proof. But the assumption is that the members of the government will still be present. Having seen a recent summary of the participation of several ministers in the councils, the percentage of participation is round zero, and many others just got the feeling that they would like to invite them all to their home and read their words. 'What do you have in mind? " I would ask them. Estonia has achieved a place at the European Union's decision-makers' table with years of work, but you are simply not going there! It doesn't, because the meeting doesn't seem important enough. In the European Union, by the way, there are no non-essential councils and the possibility of participating in the Ministerial Club, which decides on the future of Europe at both formal meetings and costars, becomes a very few. There are countries not far from us that are prepared to fight for the right to get to the table of the European Union, but our ministers are failing to appear, because the agenda does not seem interesting. Yes, of course, I am not the one who can read the words to the ministers of the government of Jüri Ratas, but how would I like to, because the Prime Minister in office has not happened to notice the indifference of his government. I congratulate the chairman of the European Union Affairs Commission, Toomas Vitsut, who, like his predecessors, has always called for ministers to come to the committee to defend Estonia's positions before us. However, why ministers do not come often is a question for the Prime Minister. The lukewarm attitude of ministers is probably also the main reason why the Estonian people's belief that our voice has weight in the European Union has fallen sharply. According to a recent Eurobarometer survey, only a few fifth of Estonian people believe in our voice. What a waste! Especially when comparing this number to four fifths of respondents who consider the European Union to be very important for Estonia. Several Members of the European Parliament who have been consistently contradicted by Estonia's official line may also make a negative contribution, but the main responsibility still lies, I believe, with the government that is not acting in this direction. Good Riigikogu! How, however, can we talk about the European Union in such a way as to inspire and make people think about it? Let me give it a shot! Four years ago, I stood near the central square of Ypres, a small town in Belgium, where several battles of World War I had taken place. In total, nearly a million people fell there. Alongside me were the leaders of 26 other Member States of the European Union, including the German Chancellor, the President of France and the Prime Minister of Belgium and Britain, but not far from me, the Austrian Chancellor, the Hungarian Prime Minister, the Italian Prime Minister and everyone else. Only a hundred years ago, these countries were at this very patch of land in an unconciliatable war, but now all of them are together thinking only one thing: "Never again! ' One hundred years in the history of mankind is at an instant, and this war was far from the last on European soil. World War II ended just seven decades ago, and three more decades ago the Estonian could not have gone to Ypres because we were on the other side of the Iron Curtain built as a result of the war. This time is now over forever, I want to believe, because the countries of Europe want to decide together and shape the future of the whole continent together. Ladies and gentlemen, This was the moment when I realized how much we have actually achieved over the last three decades, both by creating European unity and by building Estonia as an independent state. I don't think there's a single person in this hall who hasn't lived in occupied Estonia. After all, most of us still remember what it was like to live without freedom of speech, freedom of movement or freedom of the press, for example, without freedom to criticize power and offer ourselves better ideas, without freedom to decide for ourselves, without freedom to be the one that wants to be. These are the freedoms that the European Union has created to protect, and Estonia must also defend these European values and freedoms wherever possible. Without the European Union, the standard of living in Estonia would be significantly lower, security would be much less protected and the possibilities for Estonian people to travel freely would be limited. It is impossible to underestimate the impact of the European Union on Estonia's development and well-being, but only the wisdom of choosing to represent ourselves by those people who really represent us and who stand strong for our values and positions! I do not agree with the Estonian extremist party for a moment, who thinks that Estonia's future is better outside the European Union. Our memory is longer than just one generation, and we know well what will happen if a small country is left alone in the world's attraction winds. We also know all too painfully what it is like to live without basic personal freedoms and the right to self-determination. I do not agree with other European extremist parties either, because I can see that their aim is to divide everything that Europe has built together for decades. As I stand in Ypres with my fellow officials at the time, and as I stand before you, I have not forgotten that there is a war on European soil now and now. I have visited the troops defending my country in Eastern Ukraine daily in battle and have seen bombed hospitals and kindergartens in Slovjansk. There is no doubt that this is an aggression of the Russian Federation against an independent European state. When I asked Edgar Savisaar, in the last election debate in 2015, whether Crimea was released or annexed, he owed an answer. The hope that Jüri Ratas will substantially change the positions of the Centre Party of the Age has unfortunately remained unfounded or at least their position is unclear. It was only last week that a large part of the Central Party Group left its declaration in favour of Ukraine without signatures and votes in favour, while others tried to soften Estonia's views on future sanctions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs. It's not a minor thing. Let's think about it together! Ladies and gentlemen, In the Eurobarometer survey, people have said that Estonia's voice has remained unbearably weak in European Union affairs. The Reform Party is of the opinion that this must not be the case and that Estonia must once again become the core of the decision-makers of the European Union. Good luck with that! Long live Europe! Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U67	Thank you, Javier. Next, I would like to ask Marianne Mikko on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U68	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The European Union is on the verge of a major change. For the first time, one country wishes to withdraw from the Union. This process also affects Estonia in the most direct way. After all, the United Kingdom, with its liberal market economy, as an innovation-friendly country, and as an advanced digital society, is one of the countries that have thought quite similarly of us. In cooperation with the United Kingdom, we have been able to influence important decisions at European Union level, for example in the areas of the internal market and the single digital market. It has benefited both our businesses and our residents. There are also events on the international scene that directly affect the well-being of our people and the security of our country. An example is the fact that Russia is completely ignoring international law by its actions in Ukraine. The transatlantic economic and security relations with the US and the indigenous partner country of the European Union are more complex than has been the case so far. The world is constantly changing. The European Union has had to withstand various crises throughout its history. The Union has always managed to do this and has come out of the crisis even stronger. To this end, all the institutions of the European Union and all the Member States must contribute, and Estonia, too, has a responsibility to bear here. Estonia needs to continue to be an active country in Europe and, in some areas, to be the leading state of the European Union in making decisions affecting our citizens. The European Union is a common area of value. Countries that are not friendly to the European Union, including those who consider international law to be nothing, hope that the European Union will weaken, that it will not be able to take joint decisions, speak with one voice and act unitedly. Estonia's objective must continue to be a strong and united European Union. Our citizens and businesses expect us to ensure that the representatives of Estonia in Brussels, including at the highest political level, protect our interests and contribute to the development of the European Union. In order not to deceive the expectations of our citizens, we can do much at national level and by the Riigikogu. All Member States, including Estonia, will be discussed and decided by the Heads of State or Government at meetings of the European Council. Whether it is the budgetary framework, migration issues, possible sanctions or countermeasures against Ukraine in connection with Russia's military activities. It has become a good tradition that the Prime Minister once a year gives an overview of Estonia's European Union policy to the Riigikogu plenary, as is the case here today. In addition, the Prime Minister gives an overview of Estonia's positions to the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs before the meetings of the Council and presents a written overview after the meetings of the Council. However, the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs are, of course, held behind closed doors. We forget that our citizens only hear the story of what happened. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party is of the opinion that the time is ripe to establish the principle in the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu that, after each meeting of the Council, the Prime Minister gives an overview to the Riigikogu's plenary. Plenary sessions are open to the public; they are accessible to the public live and sound. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The European elections and the appointment of the new Commissioners of the European Commission are a few months away. Therefore, we should start thinking now about issues such as the submission of the Estonian Commissioner-designate. There is probably no surprise in this Chamber that the Social Democratic Party would also like to talk about women candidates on this issue. It is true that the European Commission has already encouraged Member States to present women candidates in the past, but so far the Commission has been thinking, in particular, of the Member States that joined in 2004 or later. There are now 28 Commissioners in the European Commission and only one third of them are women. We believe that the time has come for all Member States, including Estonia, to present two Commissioners-designate, one man and one woman, among whom the European Parliament will make a final choice. At the same time, we need to think not only of our Commissioners-designate, but also of the area in which the Commissioner's seat would be most suited to the interests of our country. In the current European Commission, we have a Vice-President's seat in the area of the Digital Single Market, which has met Estonia's interests and I believe also the interests of the European Union as a whole. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U69	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U70	Twice in a row, one Member State cannot demand the same Commissioner. It is therefore time to think about this too and to reach a consensus between the political parties in good time on which Commissioner we are striving, which is the interests of our country, which we really want to do in the European Commission. Finally, a few words about Estonia's active role in the European Union. Estonia has experience, competence and direct national interests on many of the political issues that are relevant to the European Union as a whole, whether it be the reform of migration and migration policy, the common security and defence policy, the neighbourhood policy, economic and monetary union, the strengthening of the European Union's single market or the future of the European Union. We have been active actors in shaping the policies and decisions of the European Union, and this should continue during the next European Commission and European Parliament. Of course, digital and cyber areas cannot be left unchecked. On the basis of very positive feedback, it seems that we, as a result of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, were able to digitalise or at least pleasantly surprise many hardened sceptics, including those who are top politicians in the Member States of the European Union. There's a reason to be happy about that. But we must not rest on our laurels, the world around us is developing, the technology is developing, and this will bring great new opportunities, but also the dangers that we need to address. I am thinking of the problems associated with artificial intelligence and the new generation of e-services, which may strain the political situation in countries and cause alarming misinformation in the population, as well as the problems of influencing election results. They need solutions. We have a lot to do inside the country. In order to ensure the security of the Estonian legal order and population, it is important to improve the security of people in cyberspace, to increase prevention to ensure cyber security. The Internet must remain free, but not a free space. A specific unit should be set up to prevent Internet abuse, to increase the capacity of the prosecutor's office to fight cybercrime, to significantly strengthen the state's strategic communication capacity. Still to be prepared to resist information attacks both in Estonia and in the international arena. As an advanced digital state, we have a moral obligation, as well as competence in digital, cyber security and security. It is important to strengthen Estonia's role as a spokesperson for all these areas. The Social Democrats are convinced of the unity of the European Union and also of Estonia. Estonia has no alternative to the European Union. To put it plainly: Estonia is Europe, a Nordic-Baltic exemplary country whose citizens believe in the European Union's survival. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U71	Thank you, Mrs. Mikko! Next, I would like to ask Mart Nutt on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U72	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! Isamaa made accession to the European Union a foreign policy priority for Estonia as soon as the electoral alliance Isamaa was formed. It was 1991. At the time, it seemed very distant, if not to say impossible perspective. However, this was already possible in 2004, and in many ways thanks to the determined activity of the Fatherland-led government in 1992 to 1994. In a few years, bold reforms made Estonia a successful, democratic, market economy Western country. Today, Estonia is one of the most internationally integrated countries. We are also part of Schengen in the European Union and are part of a monetary union using the euro. Not all the Member States of the European Union have joined them. We are also in the OECD and NATO. It may be assumed that if we had not gone to the European Union, we would not be in the OECD or in NATO and perhaps in a number of other organisations that are vital to our security. We have a complete moral basis for contributing to shaping the future architecture of the European Union. Our view is that the European Union must remain a community of nation states, not become a federal empire, in which European bureaucracy has the power of decision. There really are some problems in the European Union that we do not like. I would mention, for example, excessive bureaucracy, a very slow decision-making mechanism and somewhat controversial competence issues, in our opinion, many decisions should be taken at Member State level, not at European Union level. When we talk about subsidiarity, this principle tends to apply too much on paper and too little in real life from time to time. But the principle of subsidiarity is, in our view, very important in order for the Member States to have a sense that they can actually play a part in European Union affairs. It must also be said that there are, at the same time, issues where the European Union again tends to remain too weak, where the Member States do not have enough coherence. This concerns, in particular, a number of foreign and security policy positions. We certainly expected a stronger and more united position from the European Union when Russia attacked Georgia, when Ukraine was hit by aggression, both in 2014 and now. In the conflict in Syria, too, the European Union should show much more initiative. The persistence and strength of the European Union are in Estonia's interest. We are confident that Russia would like to see the European Union fall apart, and my appeal is that we do not bring this joy to our eastern neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U73	Thank you, Mr. Nutt. Mr Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! I would be very pleased if we could focus on development planning issues when talking about European issues: the internal market, including the digital internal market, a single data space, a common energy policy and all this, certainly also the promotion of e-commerce, the functioning of economic and monetary union, and perhaps common rules that would call more wasteful countries to order. That would all be very nice. We could probably even cope with Brexit in the UK by maintaining certain relations with the European Union. We have common interests, especially in security policy, and this bridge connects the United Kingdom with Estonia very clearly. But one big 'but' is in the air: we have to worry every day about the security situation, as well as about the loss of democratic liberal values and human rights. This, I would say, the spirit-driven situation of time in Europe and throughout the world makes me extremely uneasy. In some ways, you can't remember the time so saturated with conflict and irrational actions. Protectionism has emerged at very different levels, not just at economic level. Since Brexit and the last presidential election in the United States, there has been talk of a post-truth world. We see that the internet accelerates the dissemination of information, makes information available, but also creates all kinds of distortions, false news and conspiracy theories that take very large proportions. All of this forces us to talk about human rights in cyberspace, both the right to true information and the right to not abuse our data by means of social media platforms or other means when we are online. It forces countries to talk more and more about the need to be protected from cyber attacks. It's all a huge complex of problems. Allied relations based on common values have certainly been the best guarantee of security policy for Estonia, and therefore all such sharp conflicts of value, whether between Europe and the United States or within the European Union between some countries or between the blocs of some countries, have adversely affected our security space. Recently, Kristi Raik, head of our Foreign Policy Institute, published a very good analysis in Diplomacy. He warns us that a foreign policy based on values is not the best time. We are experiencing very serious difficulties with this and are seeing problems on several levels. I would like to make two marginal remarks on this. In my opinion, this foreign policy based on values, which he talks about in this article, has not been so firmly based on values. To some extent undoubtedly, however, Estonia has certainly been cowardly in some matters concerning the rights and human rights of nations. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U75	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U76	Let it touch on the subject of Tibet, whether it concerns the visits of the Dalai Lama, but even more on the widespread violation of human rights that began in Chechnya and which could not be mobilised enough international attention to bring Russia to order in time. And this has already been followed by violations of international law in Georgia, Syria, Ukraine and, lastly, the Strait of Kerch. We have not been able to defend this value base enough. Now, the question is also that liberalism is in danger. In fact, it is the liberal world order that has brought freedom to Estonia. These values brought freedom to Estonia and at that time it was not divided into left-liberalism and other liberalism. The time of openness in the world has unfortunately turned to closing in some way. Something has gone wrong if people do not feel that when people talk about human rights ♪ yesterday was the day of human rights, they are actually talking about their own rights. It's like talking about something abstract. Such a feeling seems to be overwhelming, and it is beyond comprehension. In this situation, I think we need to focus on the basics. The focus must be on ensuring that there are no political prisoners in the countries, there is no torture. At the same time, it is not very important to disperse in human rights, which has obviously allowed many value conflicts to emerge. To make a few comments to the previous speakers, I must agree with the comment made here in Taavi Kõiva. We certainly have the right to expect our ministers to attend meetings in the European Union. The statistics that have just been published are somewhat embarrassing. For ourselves, we should not marginalise our main ally relationship in Europe with our indifference. Finally, it is embarrassing to do so from this speaker, but I would also like to address the board of the Riigikogu and the chair of the sitting. We now have a situation where a group of the Riigikogu is not represented in the European Union Affairs Committee, despite the fact that we applied for this a month ago. We've been very patient. I ask the Board of the Riigikogu to satisfy this request as soon as possible so that the Free Party can be represented in the European Union Affairs Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U77	Thank you, Mr. Herkel. Next, please speak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group of Jaak Madison. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U78	Prime Minister, President of the sitting, colleagues and guests. The European Union has not changed by nature compared to the same time last year, and that is bad. The European Union has continued to move even more strongly towards federalism, which I have already mentioned three times every year when we have addressed the same issue. In his speech, the Prime Minister stressed that he would agree with the French President, Emmanuel Macron, and the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, on a number of issues. However, I recall what these highly respected Heads of State have expressed over the last year. President Macron of France has repeatedly expressed the need to move towards a common defence system in the European Union, i.e. to create an organisation parallel to NATO. The European Union is not a military alliance; the peoples of Europe have not joined such an alliance. NATO has been, and must remain, the main defence organisation of European countries. Consequently, good allies must remain with the United States. The statements made by the French President have only weakened transatlantic relations, and we must not ignore that. However, the German Chancellor Merkel, without any shame, has said that the Member States of the European Union must be prepared to give up sovereignty in the name of a common so-called project. I do not agree with this, and I find it shameful that the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs have not condemned this federalist and harmful mentality to Estonia. If it had been unthinkable, another ten years ago, that the German and French leaders would call for even more forceful federalisation of the European Union, and all those who warn against it are considered to be panic inciters and liars, then today we have reached a situation where it is already spoken freely and without masks. It is not the European Union, to which the people gave a mandate to join in the referendum that took place in 2003. Today, the vote in the UK Parliament will not be voted on. I have to say that if the leadership of the European Union scares first and foremost for the failure of the vote on the severance agreement in the British Parliament, then it is not so bad. In the European Union, questions must always be viewed inversely. We also saw this in 2016 when, before the Brexit referendum, people were intimidated by the end of the world when the British dare to leave the European Union. They dared to do so and wanted to take the lead in guiding their country into the future. I do not consider the policy of the European Union to be right in the negotiations on departure. In every way possible, Britain was being punished for taking advantage of the opportunity to do the will of its people and to leave the Union. I think that this attitude also undermines Estonia's position, because it remains in Estonia's interest to have good alliances with Britain. It is not in our interest to be on a boat with the French or Germans if their interest is merely to punish the British. We need to understand that Britain cannot risk questioning its territorial integrity, which is the greatest risk in the current exit agreement. We need to understand that the British Conservatives are working to ensure that the European Union does not take advantage of them and does not create a situation where the country is half in and half out of the Union. We see today that the leaders of the countries of the European Union do not realise the reality. They do not understand that dissatisfaction with the current direction is getting worse and sooner or later it will reach the streets in all countries or will be reflected in election results. In October of this year, Turku Research AS conducted a survey, where one question was: "Is Estonia supposed to ignore the unfavourable Brussels guidelines, even though this could lead to a reduction in euro subsidies? " In fact, 66% of respondents said yes. This means that 2/3 of the Estonian population no longer agrees with Estonia's legislation being shaped by the Euro Directives and regulations, and they agree that we have to resist it, even if it reduces the subsidies that have been approved and emphasised. Let our independence, our sovereignty, be a priority. The Prime Minister stressed that migration policy and the resettlement of refugees must be based on a voluntary approach. Unfortunately, he lives the day before yesterday. Quotas are already a reality. Non-redistributive countries were referred to the European Court of Justice. Participation in the quota system was put to the vote in September 2016 and then Estonian Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, voted in favour of it. I have absolutely no doubt that Jüri Ratas would have voted the same way. Hungary, for example, voted against the voluntary system, and the European Union went to court for such impertinence, i.e. for defending the sovereignty of the country. In the light of this topic, it is quite appropriate to mention another survey, which shows the minds of the Estonian people. A study carried out by Turku Research AS already mentioned in March of this year revealed that 78% of Estonian residents consider leaving quota migrants from Estonia to be a good thing. This result leaves no doubt that the people of Estonia are opposed to the European Union's migration policy and want to defend our sovereignty. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! I must remind you that we have taken an oath to defend the constitutional order of Estonia. This also implies an obligation to protect our nation state and our independence. I know that many of you cannot understand what sovereignty or nationality means, but at Christmas we may all have time to breathe and think deeper. Think about how much of this sovereignty we really have! Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U79	Thank you, Mr. Madison. According to § 71 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, I give the floor to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U80	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to say thank you very much that, despite the election on 3 March, today's debate was constructive. I listened with interest to both the questions and the opinions of all the representatives of the political groups. I believe that who sees the European Union is important. I would certainly like to say that the current government has done some more research in European Union policy than in the previous ones. In my speech, I specifically mentioned the area of environmental and social policy, for example. Europe is not just a market. Europe is also a people and a natural environment. For me, however, the European Union has been primarily a peace project, and it is a very powerful image that the European Union still bears to this day. Above all, this is a value that we must keep. The European Union is certainly also something that at least I have been taught to find more compromises and more consensus. I want to say thank you, Mr Vitsut, and, of course, the whole European Union Affairs Commission, to your secretariat. And I would also like to say thank you to your predecessor, Kalle Palling, who has done the same job in this House. Your commitment, Toomas, and the commitment of the entire European Union Affairs Commission to the Estonian Presidency and to discuss European issues at all have been very impressive and substantive. These are the good ideas that Mr Vitsut has put forward today: how, in the next composition, to intensify the interaction between the government and the European Commission, and also to strengthen the role of the Prime Minister in this work. I am very much in favour of these issues being discussed. To make certain changes in this work is, I think, the right direction. I will, of course, repeat in this final statement my findings in the recent review that no one wins Brexit. But in this difficult and difficult situation, I think it is important that we can reach a satisfactory agreement so that we can ensure that, after five or ten years of leaving, we see that relations between the European Union and Britain are something special, there is more than a regular partnership. I think this is very important to us. Now, at the end of the year, the Austrian Presidency will be over and cooperation will be completed by the trio, which is Estonia, Bulgaria and Austria. I think it has been a good Presidency in any case. Let us take the digital issue for which all the presidencies have stood. I would like to say thank you very much to the State Chancellery, the Head of the State Chancellery, Klen Ramats and all his team, who have always stood for the interests of Estonia, but have been very close and good partners to all prime ministers, including me. I would like to reiterate that in the coming rather difficult period, which will last a year or a half when we are discussing the next MFF, Estonia's interests are the reduction of cohesion, of policy instruments and of the European Union's support rates, the faster harmonisation of agricultural direct payments towards the European Union average, the provision of financing for Rail Baltic and the construction of external borders, also using the European Union budget. I would also like to thank all the political groups whose representatives have spoken today. The EKRE and Reform Party were of course more critical, but I would also like to thank them for their speech. And the Social Democrats, the Fatherland and the Free Party spoke honestly about their position. This debate must be on a very important subject. As the Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs said: this topic is actually very important for Estonia and for our people. So thank you and a lot of strength for all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U81	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! I'm closing the negotiations. We have listened to an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic in the implementation of European Union policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U82	We will go to agenda item 2, which is the second reading of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws 642. Jaanus Karilaid, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U83	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I recall that this draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 28 May and the first reading took place on 12 September. In summary, the draft has seven key objectives. Training for the commission of terrorist offences and travel, organisation, financing and support for terrorist purposes shall be provided as a criminal offence. Secondly, the intelligence activities of a foreign intelligence or security officer directed against the security of the Republic of Estonia and the support of such activities are provided as a separate crime. Thirdly, the formations of crimes to establish or maintain a relationship against the Republic of Estonia and to influence an official against the state are specified. Fourthly, in addition to other victim support services, the provision of necessary psychological assistance to victims of terrorism will be ensured until the need has been removed. The service is provided to victims of acts committed in the Republic of Estonia as well as to residents of the Republic of Estonia who have suffered as a result of a terrorist offence committed abroad. Fifthly, the victim of a terrorist offence is guaranteed state legal aid in criminal proceedings, regardless of his or her economic status. Sixthly, the legal person's responsibility for committing all offences against the Republic of Estonia is laid down. And seventhly, § 3 of the bill amends the Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. The financing of terrorism is also, according to the draft, the organisation and support of travel for terrorist purposes within the meaning of the Penal Code. The deadline for the submission of proposals was 26 September. There were no proposals from political groups or members of the Riigikogu, although the Supreme Court made a proposal. Paragraph 1 (4) of the draft law provides for the new wording of § 2351 of the Penal Code, both in the title and in the content. The proposal adds a reference to § 235 of the Penal Code to the list of paragraphs referred to internally in subsection 1 of that section. The Supreme Court pointed out that the criminal composition of the relationship between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Estonia should, as one of the elements of the content, also refer to the constituent elements of the association against the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia. This proposal was taken into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs by consensus and was also the only proposal approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs. We had also received a proposal from the Ministry of Justice to amend the Citizenship Act, but we did not go into a substantive discussion about this. The Committee on Legal Affairs considered that a separate draft law should be drawn up and the subject discussed more widely with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On 4 December, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 11 December. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and, once the second reading of the draft is completed, to refer it to the third reading by 19 December 2018 and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-11_U84	Thank you, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs Jaanus Kariliid. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. As one amendment has been received, we will examine it. It has been presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the lead committee is of the opinion that it should be fully taken into account. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 642. Second reading is over. That concludes today's session. Thank you all for your participation. I would like to remind you once again that, as soon as the meeting is closed, there will be a meeting of the support group of the 200 Estonian Memory Bank. The caller is Laine Randjärv. Thank you all. Closure of the sitting at 12.44 p.m.
