ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-07_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 14th working week of the VII plenary session. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and the enquiries. Please, Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-07_U2	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of ten members of the Riigikogu, including representatives of all political groups, including seven members of the Legal Affairs Committee, I will hand over the draft law amending the Act on Assistant Police Officers, which has been being developed since November with the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board. This draft updates the law on the basis of the needs of real work. It has been very fruitful and good cooperation with the Ministry. There will certainly be further improvements, clarifications, amendments in the course of the procedure so that this draft will contribute as much as possible to the increase in internal security and the efficiency of police work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-07_U3	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-07_U4	Mr President, thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates the Gambling Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act Amendment Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-07_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws. We process them as usual in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing. Here we welcome two new members of the Riigikogu in two political groups, who are not really so much new members, because they have also been in the Riigikogu before. Now it's time to confirm the agenda. I am voting on the agenda for the 14th working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 78 delegates voted in favour with one abstention, and no one opposed it. The agenda is confirmed. Honourable Riigikogu! The satisfaction survey questionnaire of the members of the Riigikogu has been distributed to your tables. This is a study organised by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which is used to request feedback on the services and working environment that we all offer. It is customary for such a study to be carried out at least once during its term of office, most recently in 2012. Please find time during this week to give feedback to the Registry! Filling out the questionnaire is very important for the Registry and, in fact, for all of us, because it provides valuable information on the need to adapt, adapt and provide new services. Please leave completed questionnaires in blue boxes at the back of the hall by 14 May. It was a message. After hitting the hammer, it is possible to register for performance in a free microphone. But, Aivar Chef, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-07_U6	Yeah. Thank you, Mr President. I want to ask why such papers are put on the table when there is an e-state and it is possible to answer on the computer. Now, what are we gonna do is we're gonna do every single one of these crosses with a pen and then somebody's gonna print them in somewhere? You could still be able to fill it on a computer. It is very strange that in the Riigikogu, which should set an example as an e-state, a package of papers is placed on the table that should not be on the table of the members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-07_U7	Thank you for that comment. I'm sure we'll take that into account. I repeat that the questionnaire is requested to be filled in and dealt with by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, but we will certainly pass on this idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-05-07_U8	Now you're allowed a hammer strike and a chance to use a free microphone. That's not what you want. Thank you for your contribution to this great hall today. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 3.07 p.m.
