ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 3rd working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Who wants to hand over drafts and inquiries? On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will present today a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to approve the State's consolidated annual report for 2017. Second, the Government will initiate a draft amendment to the State Budget Act 2018. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U3	No more wishes. Two drafts have been adopted, on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Reverend Riigikogu, Rene Tammis, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, has proposed that the agenda be changed to the ninth item on Wednesday, the first reading of the draft law amending the law on public information initiated by the Government of the Republic, the fifth item on the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, with this amendment, I will vote on the agenda for the third working week of the Riigikogu plenary. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against, there are four abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Honourable Riigikogu! [[It's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U4	The first question on the agenda is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Jüri Adams, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõm, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp and Enn Meri. On behalf of the heirs, please, Jüri Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U5	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A year ago there was a large merger of rural municipalities in Estonia, and although the list of counties has remained the same, the territory of the counties has changed considerably as a result. About a third of the counties' territory increased, some very significantly, some less, about a third decreased and more or less the third remained the same. In the context of elections, this is very important in shaping electoral circles and mandates. People's representatives of the free party in the Riigikogu have pointed out that in a situation where the government coalition has a clear political will not to amend the Riigikogu Election Act in such a way as to make the electoral districts more equal, it is not exactly clear what the number of mandates will be in the next Riigikogu Elections. There are two problems. The population register, which belongs to the government of the Ministry of the Interior, includes all our residences, whether they are true or not, and according to this, we are counted as voters in one district or another. However, there are about 80000 Estonian citizens who have been identified as permanently living abroad, and it is not clear in the case of very many that now, if the county borders have changed, they will be projecting the electoral district. This problem, at least in the spring, when we asked the Minister about it, was still quite young. It was also not clear what the tendency would be, whether we were going to the elections in March in such a way that the smallest electoral districts were five-mandated and the largest 13-mandated, or whether the smallest electoral district was four-mandated and the largest 14-mandated, which already means 3.5 times the difference. So our question to the Minister is this: what has the Ministry in the meantime done in this area, which has been edited in the population register, so that we can go more rationally to the forthcoming elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U6	Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U7	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will answer in the order of the questions you have asked, and I will also read the questions, so that it would also be easier for non-disputed ambassadors to come along. The first question: 'What have you done, or are you still going to do, so that Estonian citizens living abroad can choose their own constituency? Which programs have started? ' Yes, as the previous speaker mentioned, as a result of the administrative reform that has only ended, several local governments joined and therefore changed the borders of different counties across Estonia. This also led to changes within circles. According to the population register, those changes can also automatically be taken into account when determining the district for voters living abroad. The district of the electoral district that resides permanently in a foreign country is listed in the population register according to its last Estonian address and if the person himself does not have this information, then according to the last Estonian address of the parents or grandparents. Since EHAK (the classification of administrative and settlement distribution in Estonia, which is maintained by Statistics Estonia) is attached to the addresses in the population register, the reconciliation between the last Estonian address and the new county borders in the register will take place automatically. If the last address of a person in Estonia is very old and is not associated with the EHAK code and compliance cannot be created, the address included in the population register will be processed manually and recalculations will be done according to the address text. If a person considers that his or her circuit data is incorrect and wishes to change them, he or she will have the opportunity to re-submit the last Estonian address for inclusion in the population register either directly to an authorised processor of the population register, SMIT, or to a diplomatic mission through which he or she can obtain information about his or her circuit data. (SMIT is the IT department or authority of the Ministry of the Interior, which is an authorised processor of the population register.) We have about 15,000 voters living abroad, who do not know where they, their parents or grandparents live in Estonia, and therefore cannot be assigned a circuit. These are primarily the offspring of the multiple generations of foreign Estonians. These people have been informed by means of a electoral card in previous elections about the lack of circuit data, along with the request to present them. Unfortunately, the information about the deaths of people living abroad is not complete in Estonia, so people who have actually died are included in the electoral lists. What are we planning to do? The fastest and most operational is direct notification by e-mail. In the run-up to the next elections, i.e. the next month, in October, we will send a notice to some 7 000 unscheduled voters, whose e-mail address we know specifically, that they cannot now be assigned a constituency. In order for them to be able to choose, they should provide the data necessary for the designation of the district to the authorised processor of the population register, SMIT. Another important source for disseminating this information is information through foreign representations. In cooperation with the National Election Service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, information on the possibilities of voting for voters living abroad is distributed to foreign representations through known means of communication, including information on the importance of the existence of a circuit and how it can be verified and presented. Foreign representations are best informed about local conditions on the ground, including the conditions, activities and movements of local Estonians. This makes it the easiest to reach, for example, community events that speak to Estonian citizens, whether they are dances of some kind or joint seminars, popular leisure places are also important, where compatriots are often met. Of course, social media play an important role today. We use various social media groups to spread these messages. For example, the Facebook groups are 'Estonians in the United States', 'Estonians living in Finland' or 'I am an Estonian abroad' with a pretty large membership and active; there the information moves quite well. For example, 'Estonians in Taiwan' is not a comprehensive group at all. We are still looking for those channels of communication that are being used more actively. We will definitely collect death data as actively as possible. The data of Estonian citizens who died in foreign countries, and thus voters, are sought by various means as a result of international cooperation, and are also recorded in the population register. Data exchange agreements are used with Finland and Lithuania, contacts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Internet searches, data provided by other Estonian public authorities, direct contact to population registers in other countries. With Sweden, for example, we exchange these data in writing. I just signed a data exchange agreement with Latvia on the population register, which would be very operational and would operate through daily communication between the databases. If a person does not determine the district before the elections, he or she will also have the opportunity to do so during the voting process by submitting his or her or her parents' or grandparents' last residence details to either the diplomatic mission or the processor of the population register, then he or she will also be able to vote. The data will be included in the population register and will then be available for the next elections. The following question: 'What are the numbers of electoral citizens by constituency (within the current limits) (e.g. as at the first date of the month in which the question was answered)? ' I'd love to, if the inquisitor allows, to hand them over to him later, to start reading these numbers here now might be redundant. However, I would like to give you examples of one thing that is important to know. Just for example, after you get to know more about it. Let's make it simple, take constituency No 1, Tallinn Haaberst, North Tallinn and Kristiine district. In general, the number of voters in the region has increased, as the number of people in Tallinn is increasing. In 2014, 82143 people were there, and now, on 9 September, we were talking about 85975 people. In 2014 there were 5951 voters in constituency 1 abroad. Unfortunately, people from certain areas, I cannot tell you whether it is harmful to move elsewhere. I hope these are people who go to study or work and then come back. On 9 September 2018, this constituency 1 was nominated for... I'm sorry! What am I saying? There were 7326 voters, not candidates, who are abroad and who have declared this. Maybe 1375 more people. This number is increasing. This is definitely information that specialists need to analyse a little bit and look at the background. I move to the third and last question: 'How can the population register handle the tasks that the current law requires of it? ' Well, what do I say? The population register is a living organism, with constant changes in human data. The list of voters can influence, among other things, the person's life events and changes in his or her data: acquisition of citizenship, change of residence, death, marriage. Changes to the basic records, such as changes in the county borders, may also be exactly the change expressed in the population register. All these changes are always taken into account in the calculation of voters. The population register takes the data on which the mandates are calculated as provided for by law and is based on the state of data on the population register at that time. The population register also carries out continuous quality work to ensure that data are correct. The completeness of the data is checked, whether all necessary data fields per person have been completed, as well as the logical links so that there is no conflict in the data, for example, a person cannot have an Estonian residence permit if he or she is an Estonian citizen. Although today the software already provides a wide range of control options for entering data in the register, given the importance of population register data, further quality checks are being carried out on a continuous basis. By doing so, we want to ensure that the software works properly and smoothly. Currently, the processor SMIT, or the IT authority of the Ministry of the Interior, is preparing to ensure that electoral lists are drawn up correctly for the next elections and that voters receive the information they need to vote with the electoral card. We will do everything in our power to ensure that the obligations imposed on us by law are fulfilled and that elections, like order and trial, are carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U8	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is good to hear that you have these data, but there is no real overview of people living outside Estonia. There is another very big problem. This is because our constituencies are once and for all becoming more unequal in size. This already extends to the difference between almost three times the number of residents or voters and the number of mandates. Why has the current government coalition not been able to solve this problem and make the size of the electoral community even more comparable? We have a proportional electoral system, but the difference between Lääne-Virumaa and Harju- and Raplamaa is threefold.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U10	Thank you. I think that the question is very correct, because it can be seen that some of the circles are getting smaller. Indeed, as you mentioned, there is a multiple difference. But I think this process must last a little longer than two years when this government coalition has been in power. Why? During the discussions on the coalition agreement, these topics went over from the table, including discussions with several legal scientists and discussions with the Chancellor of Justice. In any case, I think it should be a little longer. A person has to get used to having a second constituency, because it is likely that much more capitulative changes should be made here than just changes by land. I know that the authorities responsible for our elections are acting on this issue, as they say, at a technical level. I hope that, if the new Riigikogu receives a mandate, it will certainly demand that this process be carried out immediately, so that it remains that three or four-year gap until the next elections. People could then get used to the new constituency and not only the constituency and the people they choose, but also the concerns of the region, if they are used to keeping an eye on such things, because they are now slightly different. I think that then we would achieve a much better situation in qualitative terms; it is certainly incomplete at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U11	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U12	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! 7000 people living abroad, as I understand, who have not yet been able to make contact with, are a very large number in the context of the elections, this is the order of magnitude of the personal mandate, which can quite significantly alter and influence the results of the elections. Did I understand correctly your answer that you are ready to say today that they will not be able to participate in the next Riigikogu elections? Or what's the last date for these people to be "found" or "feedback"? Question two. There are also citizens in Estonia whose residence is not known, and they are in just the same ambiguity. How many are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U13	Thank you. I'm gonna start with the second question. This number, which has also been adjusted by the new Population Register Act within the Estonian state, has decreased several times because we have asked people and local governments to clean up these registers, already because the person knows which municipality he is living in, what rights he has and what benefits and benefits apply to him. I'm saying right now, in writing, I can give you a more accurate number before the new population register, including the physical launch of this database at a few tens of thousands. We are particularly talking about those who have written down their place of residence with the precision of the local government. Now this number has been significantly reduced, but I can certainly give you more detailed numbers. You didn't give me this assignment before, but those numbers are all pretty. Question two, that 7,000. Yeah, that 7,000 looks like a really big number to me in the same way. This is two Estonian Police and Border Guard Boards, right, if you draw parallels. But I dare tell you that we have worked very hard to get in touch with these people, and they have a chance, as they say, to get in the boat anytime. There's no obstacle, they can even do it on election week, as long as they're interested. As I mentioned in my story, a large part of them are people who, unfortunately, have lost touch with Estonia. In fact, this information is distributed through various channels, including in Estonian associations and communities abroad. Anyone who wants to hear this information has heard it. There's nothing to do, life takes its maybe a very large part of them, I can't tell you how much, if I could say it, I wouldn't say a number like 7,000 is the ones who have actually left the world. With those countries that are nearby, we can work together to exchange these data. I said that with Sweden, we send each other, as they say, the Excel tables at a certain time. Data exchange with Finland is direct and also direct with Latvia and Lithuania, i.e. databases check data or visit each other's data to see if anything has changed and if anyone has left us. As we know, especially after World War II, Estonians went to and from farther countries, and it is much more difficult to obtain this information if we do not know where anyone is. So this 7,000 is going to be the same thing as taking the big number. But on the other hand, there are few among them who would very much like to do it, but have not done it. I also use this remote control to say: if someone is watching us somewhere on the other side of the world and is either such a person or knows that his neighbour is either the grandson of a person from Estonia or he is from Estonia, have ever left Estonia, then advise him to contact us. We have an e-state and the Internet is around the world. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U14	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. After all, there are several kinds of Estonians, there are those who have recently left here, there are those who have escaped before, there are their second, third generation, etc., some of them are active and still have contact with Estonia. In the past, the creation of the electoral district of external Estonia has been discussed several times. Are you for it or against it? If I did, I'd ask for a reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U16	Thank you. My initial, such a very quick and simple personal explanation. I'm not specially prepared for this issue, but it's okay to debate. This district would run a little counter to the logic of our electoral circles. Let's get started on who's running there. Is it just outside Estonians or, say, Estonians living in their home country every day, or are there other such relationships? That's a very subtle question. I think we could do an analysis that would provide much more precise legal answers, answers on legitimacy, etc. If we look at this sequence of numbers that I'm going to pass on to Mr. Adams afterwards, you can actually see it here. There are many of our good compatriots outside Estonia, as there have always been, but almost 72000 people have still determined their own district, making it very clear that they want to communicate, are still connected to their region, and do their electoral work on the basis of this district. But it is always possible to discuss all the issues in a democratic country and to highlight the advantages and disadvantages. Personally, I wouldn't rush to put that idea into practice. Rather, they should be found and linked to Estonia as a home through their parents and grandparents.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U17	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U18	Mr. Minister! About 5,000 of the people who are listed in the population register as permanently living abroad regularly participate in the Riigikogu elections and there is probably no very serious problem with them. Among the rest, you brought out this group that is not known to have ever tried to choose, and you said that they would receive e-mails. It's very nice to hear it's that way. I'm not quite sure about that. But this largest group, around 60,000, are those who have left Estonia probably in the last 10 to 15 years and have once been voters here. Has any initiative been taken to contact them and to encourage them to take part in the next elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U19	Thank you. These are, to a large extent, the people that I'm handing over to you in this table, almost 70,000. These people keep their, say, bandages maybe frozen at times, but still they have declared in the population register in their own community, they have given their data, and they all get a voter card, the same electronic voter card. In fact, these are largely people who also participate in different associations and collections that operate abroad. Not many, my personal experience tells me that young people have a little bit less of an attitude than my age and a little older generation. Maybe what I'm trying to say? These people are all aware, in most cases, that we have an election. After all, they are watching Estonia's life, they are watching what is happening on our online channels. It cannot be said that, in today's very open world, this information would go by them. The question is simply whether they are personally interested or not and whether they are living in Estonia on a daily basis or whether they have formed an alliance on the ground through family ties, for example. That's my current answer, but I'm sure we'll try to do it better. This year, I'm gonna check on how we deliver this information to people and how many people get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U20	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You yourself mentioned that contacts will be made through various associations and organisations to find fellow countrymen who have in the meantime interrupted or frozen their ties with Estonia. But is and how is the World Central Council of Estonia involved in the whole process of searching and making contact, who has expressed its willingness to be more involved in all the processes of the Estonian state, also in the processes of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U22	Thank you. I cannot respond specifically to you at the moment about the role of the Central Council in this matter, which directly concerns the search for people for elections. I suppose somehow he has a role to play, but I'm sure I'll clarify it and let you know. If this role is small, it could certainly be increased. I'm just not ready to answer about a particular organisation right now, but I'll do it as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U23	Thank you, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U24	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The minister's answer, I think, didn't really satisfy us as heirs. There were positive notes in the Minister's reply, but probably not enough to say, yes, we are happy with the way the Ministry of the Interior deals with this matter. There are a number of problems here, some of which are not only dependent on the Ministry of the Interior, but some of which are definitely dependent only on the Ministry of the Interior. The first problem is that 12 electoral districts have developed in Estonia, which means that on average there will be 8 mandates in the constituency. As I said, so far the range has fluctuated between 5 and 13. In the meantime, I proposed to take advantage of the historic opportunity we had for the county borders to change, along with the other MPs of the Free Party, and also to make the boundaries of the electoral circles different, more reasonable, more equal. Unfortunately, the government coalition did not see an opportunity to do so. This does not mean that this will not be done, just in the next Riigikogu, this will go even harder and harder if it had gone now. The general rule is that in proportional electoral systems such as those we have, electoral districts should not differ by more than one and a half times from each other. The second issue is the distribution of mandates and the population register. We currently have about 10% of the electoral rights in the population register as those who live permanently abroad. There must be three teams. Firstly, there are about 5 000 people who go to the elections all the time, then it is 15 000, whom the Minister mentioned, and about whom we can say that they have probably never been to the elections, and then this is the majority of the figures here are different, according to different opinions, say, about 50,000 60000 people who should basically continue to take part in the Riigikogu elections, as they did in the past in their own country. I think that because they're being sent an electronic voter card by e-mail... Can't say it's not enough, it's as good as doing nothing. This electronic electoral card has been sent to them before the last three Riigikogu elections and it has not worked in any way. So if the Minister says that the only way to work with them is this electoral card, I think it is not enough, that is certainly not enough. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U25	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U26	Now the issue of the allocation of mandates. We currently have the allocation of mandates based on the number of electoral registrations in Estonia, to which those people abroad who are somehow involved in some sort of constituency are added. The serious problem is that what is being merged will very seriously change the allocation of mandates. We did some calculations in the spring: if they are not taken into account, there is one division of mandates, if they are taken into account, then there is another division of mandates. It would be fairer not to take these mandates into account at the moment, because de facto these people have not participated in at least two or three elections to the Riigikogu and their inclusion in the basis of this calculation is not correct. I think it would be right to approach this way that, on the one hand, the Estonian state is doing everything to make sure that they come to the vote, and if they have already chosen again at least once, then they should be taken into account. Otherwise, we will have a rather arbitrary distribution of mandates and it will be very difficult for voters to explain why the distribution of mandates is not proportional to how many people live in one constituency or go there to vote. You see, in Estonia 60% of the people on the electoral lists are going to vote in the middle, among those who have registered as living abroad, but not more than 6 to 7%. This is also the answer to the question, which is why, at least now, it is not possible to try to create some sort of external electoral circle, but this inequality is spoiling the fundamental foundations of our electoral system by adding dead souls. Whoever has ever studied Russian literature at a university or can recall it from school, it knows that one of the largest satires written about a certain regime is Gogol's book Dead Souls. Today, the distribution of our mandates for the forthcoming elections is also one of the variants of dead souls. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U27	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U28	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, I'll start with what the Minister said he wouldn't read it out, perhaps from the figures you gave us. When I pointed out above in my question that the largest electoral district is three times the smallest, the figures you forwarded to us as of 9 September show an even greater difference than those that were at my disposal and reflected the status of last year. Perhaps in constituency No 4, Harju and Raplamaa, there are currently 132846, while in constituency No 6, in Lääne-Virumaa, there are 45042. The second number has been slightly reduced in comparison to the previous figures, and the first number, or the number of voters in Harju and Raplamaa, has increased by 1 500 people. There is an even greater difference compared to the previous elections. I cannot in any way be satisfied with the answer that two years is too short a period and we cannot solve this problem. Look, this problem is getting worse and worse. This is a problem for all of us in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, not just for political parties belonging to the government coalition. In Riigikogu elections, the districts should be more equal and comparable in size. At the beginning of the year, the Free Party came up with one solution, which is not at all the way politicians decide exactly what these electoral districts are, but the number of circles in Estonia could be between 9 and 12, and this decision would be made either by the electoral service or by any other non-political institution, depending on how best it is, certainly not by breaking the boundaries of the local governments, but by setting the electoral circles optimally in place. It seems to me that the issue is not at all that voters cannot get used to it. Rather, the problem is that politicians have not wanted to get used to the fact that this problem has to be solved, because if we continue like this, it will only get worse, as I pointed out above with these numbers. Smaller circles are becoming smaller and smaller, and this is a constant development and a constant trend, bigger and larger, i.e. the districts of Tallinn, and especially Harju- and Raplamaa. As far as I understand, the problem has been that one of the parties to the government coalition has spoken about six circles of Estonia, someone has spoken about 15 circles of Estonia. It doesn't really matter how many districts there are in our electoral system. I think that the number of mandates should be more or less such that an observant voter can distinguish and know all the elected representatives of the people in his constituency. Hence, the truth is evidently between six and 15 circuits. It's not a very big piece of art here to find any compromise. A few words from the constituency of external Estonia. Certainly, the difficulties are linked to the problems that Jüri Adams referred to above. The result here may be that the percentage of participation in the elections is very low, but certainly there is no problem with what the Minister said about who exactly is running there. There, the citizens of the Republic of Estonia apply on the same basis as in all other circles. In general, I think that playing with this idea is certainly a good thing because elections are one way to get to these people. The Estonian state has not reached the people who live abroad in the most effective way, even given that this is actually the most favourable time to boost return migration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U29	The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate; the minister does not. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U30	Our second item is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõm, Enn Meri, Andres Herkel, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams, Krista Aru and Artur Talvik. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U31	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! On 29 May, seven members of the Free Party Group presented an inquiry to Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva, entitled 'Access to life and development aids for children with disabilities'. " Why did we do this? The seven stories of the small Jesper, whose parents were forced to defend the child's right to receive an orthosis with the support of the state, which appeared in the Estonian Päevaleht in May, prompted us to go to court against the Estonian state. Reading this Jesper story and communicating with his father, who called me, deepened my conviction that there is still something very wrong in our country, sometimes so wrong that my hands fall on my lap. And actually not just because of this Jesper story, this story is not an isolated incident, but because of quite a number of similar stories when parents have to fight for their children's rights, they go through bureaucratic twists from special proceedings and arguments to court. Are we really so poor or so rich that because of Euros 380 and the child's very needed support vest, parents need to take legal action? Aren't we actually going to get much more expensive on the costs? Or another question. If a physical therapist and a specialist recommend a specific tool for the child, pressure clothing and physical therapy for this example, it is quite cynical to say that the beneficial effects of orthosis have not been scientifically proven. In addition, the fact that officials feel that this is not a life support, even though a recommendation has been made, makes the story intriguing. What's a life support anyway? In relation to all of this, we would like to know from the Minister how many requests have been made this year for special aids for disabled children and what are the largest product groups here. I would remind you that the parents of children with disabilities have repeatedly drawn the attention of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Board to problems with the availability of aids and to the numerous special procedures that usually end in filing an appeal. It is difficult for parents of a disabled child to file an appeal in addition to their daily care, and it takes time, all the more so as the answer to the argument is often negative. However, due to the complexity and intensity of the whole process, many parents have given up the acquisition of a state-supported tool at all or have taken up the fight for their children's rights. We would also like to know in our inquiry which product groups of aids were closed at the beginning of this year, which arguments and studies were the subject of the decision, and whether some groups have now been reopened. Yes, we know that there have already been developments compared to the moment when the inquiry was made. Why were the representatives of the target group not involved in the decision-making process, but limited to information? We also want to know how much time it will take in practice to submit an application for an instrument until this instrument is obtained and how many decisions have been refused. Who in particular and on the basis of what criteria will assess the necessity or feasibility of the instrument for life? One of our issues also concerns the availability of physical therapy services and their use by those in need. Social benefits for disabled children have not been increased by the state since 2006. We want to know whether and when it is planned to increase the social benefits for disabled children, which parents should cover the additional costs of the child's disability, including the own contribution of the aid instruments, or, instead, to buy full-price aids for this money. Of course, we will not be able to overcome the questions relating to the Skiis2. We have repeatedly and repeatedly presented them in this Chamber, because SKIAIS2 is a disgrace to the development of our e-state. Against this background, we have put six questions to the Minister, to which we are awaiting answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U32	And these answers will be provided by Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have a good opportunity to respond to your questioning in order to clarify the issues raised here. First of all, I will briefly comment on the introduction to the inquiry. Raising a child with special needs is clearly difficult for the family and time - consuming and emotionally exhausting to submit any additional application. However, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the statement made in the introduction to the inquiry concerning the numerous special procedures and appeals to the system of aids is overexploited and misleading. Our data show that in the first six months of this year, a total of 1042 special procedural requests were submitted to the Social Insurance Board (hereinafter referred to as the SKA) and 36 appeals against them. Relevant numbers for children: 352 special procedures and 14 appeals. I will also explain the story of Jesper in the press. The pressure vest requested to Jesper is a means of financing which will be decided in accordance with a special procedure. Each case shall be considered on an individual basis, which may lead to a positive response to some of the applications. Today, the SCA has examined Jesper's application, also met the child, his parents and the physical therapist, and Jesper has received a pressurized vest with the support of the state. The Social Insurance Board has recognised that the decision-making process for the reimbursement of aids must be improved. The problem in this story was that the evidence submitted to apply for the aid did not reflect all the necessary information about the child's health. The meeting of the child, his parents, and the physical therapist revealed further facts about the child's state of health, on the basis of which the SCA was able to change its previous decision. From this case, the SCA has learned. In future, the Agency will plan an even more individual approach to the designation of non-listed tools and, if necessary, meetings with children and their specialists. However, I stress that this does not mean that any request for a pressurization will be a positive decision in the future. Examination of the application submitted and taking a negative decision in certain circumstances shall be based on the health status of the user of the aid and on the possibility of using other possible aids. Here is the case, for example, when a pressure vest was applied for to a child whose rehabilitation plan indicated that he had strong obstacles to speech flowing and breathing. This refers to possible weak respiratory muscles, while weak lung function is one of many contraindications in the product description of pressure clothing. Pressure may aggravate breathing difficulties, but the child was provided with evidence that he or she needs pressure clothing despite contraindications. Specialists at the Social Insurance Board always look at the use of the aid and do not have any counter-indications or other solutions that are more appropriate or better. And now to specific questions. The first question: 'How many applications for special aids for disabled children have been submitted in 2018 and what are the largest product groups in numbers? How long will it take in practice to submit an application for an aid instrument until it is received under a special procedure (official deadline of 30 days)? ' As far as the specific procedure for aid instruments is concerned, according to the SKA, a total of 1042 special procedures applications have been submitted in the first six months of this year. Of these, 352 have been submitted for assistance to a disabled child, with 214 unique applicants, i.e. some children had submitted more than one application. The largest product group in the number of specific paediatric procedures was the carts (25 applications), individualised foot ankle orthoses (23) and children's disposable urinary incontinence products (23 applications). We take as a basis the types of special procedure: 14 times were requested for carts to increase the marginal rental price and six times for carts to be bought out, six times for individually manufactured foot jumping orthoses, six times for new equipment to be purchased before the end of the existing service life, plus an increase in the limit price, and five times for new equipment to be purchased before the end of the period of use of the existing tool, 21 times for children's one-off urine incontinence products. Information on the special procedure is essential for making changes to the system of aids. For example, 700 diaper specific requests were submitted last year. This shows that the limit has not been sufficient and is expected to double it from next year. It is also common practice that when there will be a number of specific procedures for an instrument or target group, representatives of the target group will be met on this subject to clarify the situation. For example, the SKA met representatives of the Children's Foundation and target group at the University Hospital of Tartu in spring on pressure vests. Procedure period. The special procedure takes an average of 23 days. Very few cases go beyond the deadline that require, for example, a third party assessment, a return to another company, a meeting with a client, for example, during therapy, etc. In such cases, the SCA shall communicate with the person, his representative or family member and shall be informed of the extension of the procedure. As I mentioned earlier, in the first six months of this year, 1042 special procedural requests were submitted, 75% of which received a positive decision. Of the 352 applications of disabled children, 78% received a positive opinion. In the first six months of this year, 36 appeals were lodged, 14 of which were submitted by parents of disabled children. None of the appeals submitted by parents of disabled children have been satisfied. The fact that arguments have not been satisfied shows that a competent decision has already been taken at the outset and that all available information has been taken into account. The largest number of complaints, seven appeals, have been submitted for the acquisition of a non-regulation instrument. The third question: 'Many cases require aids in combination with physical therapy. How many hours of physical therapy is provided for a child with chronic illness per year, both in rehabilitation and rehabilitation? How long are the waiting lists for physical therapy on both systems? If the pressure vest assumes that physiotherapy should be at least 3 x per week, can it actually be obtained? " The services provided here to help people are different in purpose and content. Social rehabilitation is a complex service designed to help and teach a person to cope if there are major and/or unexpected permanent changes in his/her medical condition and coping, such as a person left in a wheelchair due to trauma, lost vision, diagnosed with progressive illness, a disabled child born into the family. The aim of social rehabilitation is to instruct and advise people in order to help them cope better in their daily lives. The purpose of rehabilitation is to maintain or restore a person's health. Thus, physical therapy plays only a supportive role in the care service, without it other specialists would not be able to deal with a person. It also teaches techniques and exercises that should be continued independently at home. The volume of physiotherapy is therefore limited as part of social rehabilitation. In rehabilitation, physiotherapy can be obtained on a larger scale and as a stand-alone service than prescribed by the doctor. Whether combined with or instead of a device, and how much physical therapy is needed is extremely individual. Service volume. If the child suffers from reduced mobility, the annual volume of physiotherapy is up to 37.5 hours in the context of social rehabilitation. 34% of the proposed limit was used last year. A child without reduced mobility has an annual volume of 12.5 hours and 82% of this limit was used last year. In total, last year physiotherapy was used as a social rehabilitation service by 54% of what would have been possible during the year. In the framework of rehabilitation, several types of physical therapy are provided, individual and group therapy and therapy is carried out in the pool. One meeting lasts 30 minutes. The total volume of individual physical therapy services is 60 meetings in six months. The number of individual physiotherapy treatments may be increased if the effectiveness of the current treatment is documented and the need for continued treatment is justified. Orders. There is no queue to receive a social rehabilitation service at the SKA. It takes a maximum of 10 working days to process a child's application, i.e. making a financing decision. The time to be in line with the service providers varies and often depends on the choices made by the person. The average time to reach the service in adults after the assignment decision is nearly four months, with children just over one month. There are service providers with which there is no queue, but if a person wishes to receive a service where there is a queue, he or she must wait. Hence, the waiting list is often a human choice. True, there are fewer service providers in certain areas of Estonia, but there are many service providers in Tallinn, Tartu and other major cities, for example, and people can choose a service provider that does not have a queue or is shorter. Very extreme example is Värska. There are many customers who are willing to wait six months or even longer to receive the service precisely in Värska Sanatorium. The average order of rehabilitation is similarly dependent on service providers. There are service providers with no queues, but according to the Health Insurance Fund, the longest waiting period is 119 days. Question 4: "Which product groups of aids were closed at the beginning of this year, and based on what arguments and studies was the decision made? Why were representatives of the target group not involved in the decision-making process, but limited to information? ' At the beginning of this year, the SCA suspended the reimbursement of a number of aids, such as the orthoses of the spine and lower limbs produced as mass products, stables and some footwear, as well as pedal treads, moistened napkins, reading and work lights, book supports and book holders. The decision was made on the basis of the principle of the SCA that compensation for aids whose absence does not prevent self-sufficiency is temporarily suspended without further damage to health and/or for which alternatives to normal trade can be found. The decision was made on the basis of the SKA's expertise in its tools and the existence and impact of various tools on the person's livelihood. The SKA is responsible for the use and monitoring of the budget for the aid. The reason for the suspension of compensation was the need to avoid a situation where, at the end of the year, the budget was running out and the vital means of life could not be guaranteed. The decision was made on the basis of the amount allocated to the aid instruments in the State budget of the SKA and the actual use made of the previous months. The budget expenditure for the last months of the previous year was higher than usual and gave reason to believe that the resources planned for this year might not be sufficient to ensure all the instruments. However, the budget expenditure for the first months of this year was planned and allowed the reimbursement of the aid to be restored to working age from 1 April onwards and to old age and children from 1 July onwards (they are different budget lines). From next year, the budget for the aid instruments will be the estimated cost of the state budget. This will allow financial resources to be provided smoothly to all persons with a legitimate need. Of course, communication can always be improved and must always be well thought out and clear to all parties when making important decisions. So has the SKA learned from this experience and arranged several meetings with help companies and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People to find the best ways to involve and inform different parties in decision-making. Question 5: 'In special proceedings, the reason for the refusal is often an explanation that the aid is not vital or necessary for development. Who, in particular and on what criteria, assesses the necessity or feasibility of the instrument for life? " The need for help is identified by a family doctor, specialist doctor, or rehabilitation team. Since the beginning of this year, the need for assistance can also be identified by operational breaks and physical therapists. Only a specialist doctor can identify the need for aid for children without disabilities. The Social Insurance Institution allows and organises compensation by the State of the aid instrument and the SCA also makes special procedural decisions. In making these decisions, it will build on its expertise in the field of tools and, if necessary, involve external experts in the resolution of more complex cases. In making its decisions, the SCA shall take into account the objectives of specific aid instruments, alternative aid instruments, the availability of other assistance options and the budget of the aid instruments. A tool is considered essential for a person's life if its absence prevents self-sufficiency and causes additional health damage and consequently higher treatment and care costs or costs for aids. A tool is also considered essential if it is used daily and most of the time when it is awake, as well as if it does not have alternatives to conventional trade. Necessary aids include prostheses, hearing aids, diapers, wheelchairs, etc. Since there are really many issues together, I will take this opportunity to answer the sixth question after the first supplementary question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U34	Thank you. Experienced MPs help the minister with the experience of the Riigikogu to answer the question to the end. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U35	Mr President! Good minister! Before you start answering my question, please answer these questions that have not been answered because of the lack of time. My question, however, concerns physical therapy. It was very surprising to hear you say that 54% of the annual physiotherapy potential remains unused in the context of the social rehabilitation service. This seems incredible, because wherever or in which case the social rehabilitation service is being discussed, it is just complaining that physiotherapy, including rehabilitation, is insufficiently available. Have you analyzed where it comes from, because it's already limited, but still half of it remains unused? There's some kind of contradiction around here.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U36	Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to respond further. I'm sure I'll answer that question as well. Since there are themes really wall-to-wall, it is rather right to provide more comprehensive answers. Question 6: 'The state has not raised social benefits for children with disabilities since 2006. Are there plans and when are there to increase social benefits for disabled children, with which parents should cover the additional costs of the child's disability, including the own contribution of the aid instruments? " The Ministry of Social Affairs continues to attach great importance to supporting the independent livelihood of people with disabilities and creating equal opportunities for them. A comprehensive approach must be taken to the system of supporting people with disabilities and to make changes to it, with equal attention being paid to adults, alongside disabled children. On this basis, we are preparing amendments to the principles of disability policy and to the modernisation of services and subsidies. Our aim is to review and organise the payment of social benefits to persons with disabilities and the organisation of these social benefits as a whole, so that, in combination, the benefits and services will deliver the best results in helping people throughout the life cycle and in terms of the scale of aid needs. A working group has been set up in the Ministry of Social Affairs to prepare the changes, including representatives and experts of the target groups, and at the end of the year we will submit proposals to the Government of the Republic. However, obviously we are not waiting, at the same time, for these proposals to be completed, but also for people with disabilities and families with children with disabilities. I can agree that monthly financial support often does not cover the extra costs of disability that a disabled person makes to cope with everyday life. On the other hand, people with disabilities have stressed that, above all, they need services to support everyday life. In order to improve access to services for disabled children and their families, the state has taken several steps. For example, in order to improve access to services for disabled children and their families, local authorities will be provided with financial resources to provide services for children with severe and deep disabilities. A total of 4.65 million is planned for this year, and the local government can pay, for example, the own contribution of aids or other services, in addition to the provision of services. In addition, the European Social Fund provides services for children with severe and deep disabilities. A total of 6.2 million euros was spent last year and 7.2 million euros, or 1 million more than last year, are planned for this year. Support for the adaptation of homes for people with special needs was launched with the support of the European Regional Fund. The first round supports the adaptation of the accommodation of nearly 500 people. A total of 2 000 disabled persons, including children, will be adjusted by means of the Regional Fund. The next round will be opened at the end of this year. People must contact the municipality of their place of residence with the application for adaptation. I would also like to stress here that it is also possible to improve the situation of families through the general system of reimbursement of aids. For example, the SCA will be able to reduce its own contribution to the aid instrument to up to 5%. The availability of public services in all age groups, including children, has also significantly improved. For example, at the beginning of 2015 there were almost 10,000 people in the rehabilitation queue, so far the queues for both children and people of working age and old age have been eliminated. On several occasions, additional resources have been found for social rehabilitation and since 1 August. a the prices of rehabilitation services increased, paid for by the state, a new increase planned for the beginning of the year. Price increases help to address the problem of availability of services due to lack of specialists. The Government of the Republic also decided in the spring state budget negotiations that next year the state budget will provide substantial additional funding for the compensation of disabled people, including children, making the budget imputable and thus making it more accessible from the state budget. Additional funding is also planned for special care services, which will enable us to create service places and improve access to services through higher prices paid by the state. Work to improve access to services will, of course, continue to continue. In the longer term, we want to move from universal support to a more comprehensive assessment of the need for assistance to disabled people by choosing aid measures according to individual needs. That concludes the answer to Question 6. Now to your point of clarification. As far as the text is concerned, there are quite a few numbers here. Physiotherapy is used, yes, 54% of the volume, not missed. So 54% is being used. Indeed, it is exactly as with any average: one is left over, the other is much short. Of course, if there are signals, if parents or families say that one or the other service has been scarce, then there may be a case that more support is needed specifically for this child and the other does not use it at the level that has been granted to him. There may be several reasons. This may be the reason that this person actually needs longer rehabilitation as a medical service. That's where he was dissatisfied that he hadn't gotten enough of it. However, it has also been examined why the services provided to disabled persons during rehabilitation are not used. One of the most common reasons, especially for children, is that it is not possible to use these services logistically at one point or another. For example, a parent at work is unable to reconcile these things well, the service may be provided in an inappropriate place or at an inappropriate time, or other circumstances may have changed. There are also such arguments for other services. It is therefore quite important that mid-term evaluations are carried out during rehabilitation. This is sometimes considered to be of little importance, but then it can be seen whether another service or service would be required instead of one or the other. So it's definitely important to keep an eye on it. There may be many reasons, yes, but it is now clear that these services are often not used. One reason, perhaps not overwhelming, but also the fact that physiotherapy is used in places where accommodation is also provided, rather than in accommodation and transport services and less real physical therapy services. But that, of course, is not a lasting reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U37	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The sad starting points for this inquiry include the delay in the development of the digitalisation of the tools used by the SKIAS2. This is where I come to this more general and bigger question of the Skiis2. I know you had an audit at the Ministry or a study of what's been going on. What were the results? How expensive has the work that has been done over the years, how much is it used in all its elements and how much has the expenditure of ministries been spent on precisely those cases when the old system is to be maintained?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U39	I do have a request to the questioner that the questions concerning specific numbers or specific facts relating to matters which were not covered by these six questions be submitted either in writing or that we take these questions from the verbatim and answer them by this method. I can't tell you the budgetary and financial figures right now. But, of course, the general focus is to note that when we talk about IT developments and also about the SKAIS, it is clear that the numbers about what they paid three or five years ago, for example, and what they pay now or later, are usually different in addition, because any change in law, such as what the honourable Riigikogu does or what is done with another act, often requires IT developments, which also means that the financial cost is increasing. Of course, there is an additional cost of the need for duplicate systems, which is also perfectly understandable. But today, the work of IT developments is divided into several phases in order of importance. High-speed work is necessary to ensure that decisions taken by the legislator are implemented through information systems. That's how this sequence is done. As far as the system of aids is concerned, its completion is currently planned for 2020. It will then be possible to switch to a "digital prescription system" with the aid of aids, no longer need any paper that needs to be taken into account and carried along, but will be as convenient as the issue of medicines is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U40	Thank you, Minister Kaia Iva! The people's ambassadors don't have any more questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U41	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. Good ambassadors left in the hall! We must, of course, start by expressing the joy that some things will also get a positive solution. Jesper's story, which hunted passion and touched a lot of people, has been solved, and Jesper has been helped by the state to acquire the means of life, without judicial intervention. That's great. However, on the basis of this example, we were able to hear that once again we need to take a big step forward so that we have the right and sufficient basic data to make a right and fair decision. In this case, it turned out once again that the data were not sufficient and, if they had been supplemented, we were able to make a better decision. Once again, we reach SKIAIS2, and we come back to the health information system questions. It is time to take a big step forward and in a faster way so that we do not have to make decisions due to insufficient data that offend people's sense of justice and cause disappointment in the Estonian state. But I'm glad this case has been solved. As far as these so-called special procedures are concerned, indeed, 1042 requests for special procedures have been submitted in the first months. This figure promises to be smaller this year than it was in 2017, for example. In 2017, there were 2813 special proceedings, of which 1780 or 1033 were either rejected or partially granted. That was a lot. We also have a lot of legal situations where special procedures are needed. Perhaps it would make sense, however, to review them and to minimise their number. Is it necessary to apply for a special procedure, for example, in cases where there is a need to increase the limit price or limit value for diapers, when a child needs a new tool due to the rapid growth of the child before the end of the previous period of use, as happened with Jesper, if, for example, there is a desire to reduce his/her own participation or if there has been some other distinction, such as a change in the service, or if there is an extra-regulation instrument? There are too many criteria, which require a specific procedure for obtaining an instrument. Applying for a special procedure is difficult for a parent who may be raising a child with a very serious disability, because legal documents are needed there. Moreover, when a negative answer comes, a parent must also be able to draw up a challenge, which in turn is very difficult. In fact, it is in an unequal situation between the applicant and the SKA. From 1 February this year, the reimbursement of certain aids was indeed suspended. We have now learned the reason: there were insufficient funds and attempts were made to avoid some of the vital resources being lost at the end of the year. I would just like to remind you that when we changed the organisation of the aid system in 2015 and moved the aid distribution system from the level of the county administration to the level of the SKA, i.e. the state, one of the reasons was that it would be better to plan the budget so that the aid instruments could be available more quickly and smoothly. At the moment, I have the feeling that we have taken a step backwards from our 2015 commitment to improving access to aid instruments. I have here the official views of the previous Minister for Social Protection, as well as of you and the Ministry, on how the current, changed situation will make things better. He has undoubtedly improved it, but whether we can be satisfied with it, I am not sure of that. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U42	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U43	As regards our last, sixth question on the need to raise social benefits for children with disabilities, these benefits have not been raised for 12 years. They have remained at the same level: EUR 69 for children with medium and severe disabilities and EUR 80 for children with severe disabilities. In fact, money is no longer of the same value as then, 12 years ago. I agree that universal support should increasingly shift from an individualised approach and may be more in need of services than subsidies, but I would point out what parents of disabled children have said. They have said that there is also a need for state support for the consumption of services, and this amount does not cover it. For example, in order to receive a support person or a personal assistant for a disabled child, a large number of local authorities have established their own participation and this participation should be covered by social security benefits specifically for children with disabilities. I'm not talking about drugs, aids, etc. So one does not rule out the other, these things should work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U44	The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate any further, but the minister does. Please, Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U45	I want to make a little bit of a clarification on two points. Firstly, as far as special procedures and disputes are concerned, I do have the request to distribute the following information to those who do not have this knowledge. The Social Insurance Institution must assist, give advice and reach the point where each person seeking assistance can obtain a special procedure and a challenge with their support. This may sound strange, but the appeal must also be supported by the SKA. In addition, it is possible to get this advice from the disability organisation and the Chamber. Maybe this information hasn't been understood, but I'm asking you to spread it. In order for such information to be clearer, we often have parents and disabled people in trouble with the fact that the information is incomplete and not accessible, it is one of the biggest concerns, we like the way in which in the spring we produced such a stepbook on care for the elderly that if the family needs help, what you should do and where to go, where to get help or who to support you, we want to do the same information on the occasion when the disabled person is in need. If he goes to the doctor, he will receive the same information as in the SCA or in the next place, for example in the local government. It must be clear who is helping him, and receiving this information must be made as simple as possible, both at national and local level. We must reach the end of each person's problem by sharing our best practices and training. It must not be the same as happened to one family who turned to the local government for one service. It wasn't possible at the moment, and that thing was on hold. When I asked what happened then, I was told that the parent didn't turn again, so it worked out. In fact, there was no solution because the parent was waiting to solve the problem. In this sense, every step of the way must have the objective of resolving the matter to the end. The second issue I want to clarify is the tools and whether or not it has gotten better. I think that those people who remember 2015 and the time before, when the distribution of aids took place by county at the county government, know that then it could have been quite free to run out of money in one county in July, in another November, in one place there was a store where you could buy these aids, in another place there was another store. After all, you didn't have a choice, you were forced into this county. While around €6 million was spent on aid funds in 2016, availability has now significantly improved. This year we have 11.5 million planned, almost twice the amount. This is not because all things have become exponentially more expensive, but because access has improved considerably and people's awareness has also improved. Of course, if the system works better, people will also receive these funds better and the cost will increase. For next year, we have planned a budget of 14,4 million aids. But, as has been said, it also includes that it becomes imputable, perhaps it is not the concern that money might run out of money in one month or another. Of course, planning has now been much better possible because the system operates in the same way across Estonia. At the beginning of the year, it was evident that expenditure increased exponentially at the end of last year. The question arose as to whether this was a continuing trend. Happily, it turned out that growth stopped and that what was planned at the beginning of the year corresponded to what was really needed. So it was possible to react immediately. It can be seen that these amounts have increased significantly. If we look at the state's measures, we will see that the cost was 46 million last year, 52 million planned this year and 64 million next year. We are putting significantly more resources into this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U46	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U47	Free mike. March Sults, do you want to talk about it? March Sults changed his mind. Please, March Sults!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U48	Mr. Chairman! Colleagues! I mean, correction of mistakes. Last week I spoke in an open microphone about Valga Gymnasium and there were some numerical shifts in this big information noise. I went to the director of Valga Gymnasium on Friday at 3:00 and specified the numbers so I could bring them to you today as a correction for mistakes. We're talking about Russian middle school graduates who can't find a place in Valga's education system. But it's not as drastic and black as it seemed to me at first. In that academic year 19 young people came to the trials, 14 of them entered Valga Gymnasium. You're currently studying there out of those 14 11 years old. There were 16 in attendance last year and 14 got into school. The previous year was 10 applicants and 9 were admitted. Fifty-five kids came to rehearsals and 48 got in. The tests took place in principle as a conversation as much as possible, then the scores and then the general education questionnaire (who is the prime minister, who is the mayor of Valga, who is the parent of Valga rural municipality and such questions). On this basis, the student was either assigned to upper secondary school or stayed out of it. I mean, basic data on how many people graduated from Russian comprehensive school were definitely bigger. This whole problem arose because during the administrative reform of the state, Valgas simply closed down the Russian gymnasium, and about 90 students had to be transferred to the Estonian-language gymnasium. There is no Russian language education in the area, because Valkas is not a Russian school. So what happened? What happened is that the immersion isn't like that in the 10th grade. Russian teachers came over, and lessons were given in Russian because those who graduated from primary school did not meet the requirements for accreditation of Estonian language skills. In the 10th grade, mathematics and other exact sciences in Russian were taught by Russian teachers. What happened next? Then it happened that the state sent on the Language Inspectorate and it turned out that those teachers who teach Russian did not fully speak the official language. So basically, this thing was really stuck. But in the 11th grade, chemistry will be given in Estonian. It is not possible to teach chemistry in Estonian to people who do not know the language if students are not put in groups, so basically the class is divided into three groups. This means that the price of teaching one class triples, but the money only comes to 20% when it's a immersion. So, in principle, there has been chaos and misunderstanding in administrative reform in peripheral countries where the population is shrinking. The border town of Valga and the twin city of Valga-Valka should be a crown jewel, there could be developed what, anything that only comes to mind. Every idea is worth gold, and it should come true. But there are no resources, one educational establishment is repaired and this is how it is done. Valga Upper Secondary School is doing insane work to preserve existing human resources, student population and student body as such. So the strength and strength of the men and women who are there and the civil servants! There are exceptions, there are exclusive situations and these must be taken into account. If the local circumstances and the local identity are not taken into account, this wagon will be converted. Thank you very much. I'm gonna try to be more specific about information noise in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-24_U49	I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4:34 p.m.
