ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, hello! The beginning of the Monday session of the 5th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U2	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The seven members of the Free Party shall report to Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, on the right of villages to change administrative cohesion. Even before the administrative reform was completed, we raised quite a number of problems that had arisen in several places. The most prominent of them is probably Sauga in Pärnu County, but also Ambla and others. The question arose of the desire of villages to change their administrative-territorial belongings. At the time, the answer was roughly that, as long as the administrative reform law was in force, this would not be possible, but new opportunities would be opened up later. Indeed, under the Administrative Division of Estonian Territory Act, this is possible in two ways: either on the initiative of the council or on the initiative of the Government of the Republic. There are quite a number of places in Estonia that have gone wrong and require correction of errors, and they are quite striking. Here we are addressing the Minister for Public Administration with a number of questions. What is the stage in which the inventory of administrative reform errors is being carried out? Is and when the Government of the Republic is planning to take the initiative under the Administrative Division of the Estonian territory to come out with the border adjustment initiatives itself, especially in those places where it is as absurd as in Pärnu county, where the Pärnu suburb is essentially owned by Tori municipality, but at the same time the city extends several decades to rural, forest and swamp areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U3	Heili Tõnisson as representative of the Government of the Republic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will initiate a draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above-mentioned bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U5	One draft and one inquiry have been adopted, and we will deal with them under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu considered it necessary to report their presence, missing 15. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the fifth working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U6	The first item on our agenda is an inquiry by Henn Põlluaas, Martin Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Please, Henn Põllamaas! The noise is so loud, you can't even hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U7	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister! Colleagues! Today we are discussing the question made by the Conservative People's Party Group to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kadri Samson. The question is why the project of the Tartu highway does not meet the standards. The plan is to extend the road to Tallinn in four lines from Kos to Ardun, and it is designed as a first-class road with a design speed of 120 kilometres per hour. For the construction of this section of the road, the Road Administration has tendered and concluded contracts. The problem is not whether or not to build this road. Of course, it is necessary, it must be done, but the road is made considerably narrower than prescribed by the standards of the Republic of Estonia. The 2015 Decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure states precisely what the cross-sections of these sections of the road and the width of the lanes and road beds must be. The path to be built is to be circum 3 meters narrower. Tighter are both asphalt parts and tea beds where cars can be parked. This is clearly a violation of existing rules, which increases the risk of road accidents. But the most absurd thing is that, apart from narrowing the road, the last layer of asphalt is to be stopped. Asphalt layers, altasphalt, and the upper layer have different stamina and strength. If we cancel the top layer, the tea asphalt will be much weaker, the heavy cars will soon push in and in winter the nail tires will damage the lower cover much more than the upper cover. So what's the reason for all this? Anyway, in seven years' time, we're gonna have to start fixing the road, so let's put this last layer of asphalt on it. Well, we might as well stop building a house without, say, staining or some other roofing, 'cause we're gonna have to fix it sometime, so let's do it. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister. I will read them briefly, not in full. I hope that the Minister will read the questions accurately, literally. For what reasons have road design standards been violated? Why is there no justification for the project not using these standards? If it is supposed to be economically feasible to postpone the installation of the last asphalt concrete layer, then it could have made the whole road and the road dam much worse, thinner. What tools will be used to improve this path if, in addition to putting the last layer of asphalt, the road dam has to be repaired because of the penetrations? Who is responsible for this situation and how? How to assess breaches of design standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U8	Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U9	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am here to answer the questions put by six members of the Riigikogu. As a preliminary point, I am telling you that the technical solution to the road project is based on the Decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of 5 August 2015 entitled 'Road Design Standards'. The renewal of the Regulation was required by the Construction Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2015, and a new full text of the rules was introduced on the basis of the new mandate rule. Not all the details of the road project can be regulated by regulation, but in order to allow the best possible practice to be used in designing roads in Estonia, the design standards and other guidance materials of European countries located in climate zones close to us are allowed if this creates conditions for safe movement. In order to use other countries' standards and guidance materials, the road owner must justify the need to use them in the explanatory memorandum to the project. The width of the lanes on the first-class highway has been 3.75 metres in the norms, while the width of the fortified bed is 2.5 metres. Large beds are largely a historical legacy from a time when vehicles often had to stop along the road due to technical failure. This required beds of sufficient width to ensure safety. Today, we have to take into account the fact that, as the fleet has become more up-to-date and there have been many new, safer and, at the same time, more satisfactory-density stop options, be they gas stations, car parks or SOS pockets, the likelihood of stopping along the road has been considerably reduced, and the need for such wide beds has fallen. More specifically, questions and answers. First: For what reasons is the road design "whistled' to the road design standards, building the road in a much narrower cross section than the previous section (Aruvalla Kose)? "The Decree of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure' allows the design of roads to use the design standards and other guidance materials of European countries located in climatic zones close to Estonia, provided that this creates conditions for safe traffic. Over the years, the Public Road Administration has studied the experiences of many countries in order to look for the best possible results in the limited resources situation. Swedish standards are often used in designing roads in Estonia, which ensure road safety at Nordic level. The design of the Tartu road is based on the width of the lane and fortified bed provided in Swedish road design guidelines. The width of the lane 3.5 metres and the width of the fortified bed 2 metres allow for an increase in the seasonal maximum permitted speed by the Aruvalla section. The guidance material drawn up by the Board of Directors-General of the European Road Administrations on the design of areas adjacent to a safe road provides information on the widths of road beds used in different countries. This summary also shows that a 2 m wide stretch of tea is sufficient. The National Audit Office prepared an audit "Renovation of the main roads of the state' in 2013. Within this framework, the National Audit Office made proposals based on the expert opinion of Tallinn University of Technology that would allow you to be built cheaper without compromising your quality. As part of this work, experts from Tallinn University of Technology also called it a useful opportunity to reduce the width of the road by 25 centimeters: 3.5 meters instead of 3.75 meters and 3.25 meters instead of 3.5 meters. This would make it possible to reduce construction costs without compromising road safety. First-class roads have been established in Estonia before, with a track width of 3.5 metres and a fortified bed width of 2 metres. For example, it has been used in the traffic junction of the Tallinn ring road already built in the Hellfield. The same principles were applied to the construction of the completed Juuliku traffic junction. In addition, following the same principles, the rest of the objects in the Väo-Jüri section of the Tallinn Ring Road are located in the section of Karla, Lagedi and Väo, and in the section of the Valiing and Valiinga section. The section between Pärnu and Uulu on the Pärnu highway is also planned to be built according to the same principles, as well as the section of Kärevere in the vicinity of Tartu, Tartu, Tartu and TartuReola, when considering Rõmeda-Haljala on the Narva highway. The 3.5 metre wide lane and the two-metre wide bed have also been used in the development of the Tallinn ring road on this same section of Juuliku-Kanama. The object was completed last year and the seasonally increased limit speed was also applied there. The Road Administration has not received any negative feedback from road users. According to the 2017 traffic census, an average of 12400 cars per day passed through the Juuliku-Kanama section, of which 19% were road trains. The second question: 'If other countries' design norms have been used (as theoretically permitted by the aforementioned ministerial regulation), why is this not justified in the project? ' In March 2014, the contract E263, the preparation of the technical project of the Kose-Võõbu road section was signed. In November 2014, the Road Administration's Investment Committee had a road section solution on its agenda. Cross-sectional solutions were introduced and it was decided that they would be re-submitted for review and comment and that a final choice would be made in the next working group. The next working group met in December 2014. Then the Road Administration's Investment Committee agenda included changes to the Kose excavation project and cross-sectional options. A cross section with 3.5 m wide lanes and a 2 m secure bed was introduced. The pros and cons of the solution were also mentioned. The raft was that the width of the soil decreases from 26 meters to 21.3 meters, so the victory is 4.7 meters. The width of the equivalent cover is reduced from 21.5 meters to 19 meters, with a victory of 2.5 meters. Bridges crossing the main road are shortening and bridges narrowing down the main road. Although it was found that the environment was new and unfamiliar for ordinary road users, it was decided to approve the cross-section of the proposed main route. The project's explanatory memorandum states that the cross section of the main road design differs from the pre-project solution and is a specific solution coordinated by the contracting authority. The designed lane width is 3.5 metres, the outer fortified bed width is 2 metres. The cross section parameters are in accordance with the Swedish design standards. The Road Administration has based its use of narrower lanes and stretches on Swedish guidance material. There is no reason to doubt the safety of the standards used in Sweden, as Sweden is at the forefront of road safety across the world. A road safety audit has been carried out by an independent expert for the Kose-Võõbu project. The auditor has answered yes to the question on the audit checklist of whether the safest choice of cross section options is possible. The third question: 'If it is claimed that it is economically feasible to postpone the installation of asphalt concrete in the last layer, why has it not been considered that the construction of other road surfaces should be detonated, abandoned or delayed? 'In order to prepare a construction project, the coverage is calculated on the basis of the traffic load forecast for the future. When preparing the Tartu road project, it is estimated that in 20 years the traffic load on the Tallinn road will be significantly higher than now. Therefore, at the current lower loads, it is possible to abandon the uppermost asphalt layer and to build it when the traffic load requires it. Therefore, the postponement of the construction of the last asphalt concrete layer essentially involves step-by-step construction. This, in turn, makes it possible to make better use of road-saving equipment. The construction of a road surface with a smaller thickness is decided on an object-based basis, taking into account in particular the nature of the traffic and its forecast. However, we are only talking about the last layer of asphalt concrete, because in a few years' time it will not be wise to remove relatively freshly installed asphalt layers and to build a base, for example, five centimetres thicker than a fragment. Only the construction of the upper, open layers can be timed, while the lower layers are still designed in view of traffic forecasted for the future. Question 4: "Which means will the road be repaired if the removal of one of the asphalt layers causes the road to penetrate and needs to be repaired before the planned period? 'The road construction project has been constructed with a flattening calculation which takes into account both the load on the road immediately after the opening of the road and the expected traffic load after 20 years. As the traffic load expected for the future is much higher than now, it is possible to abandon the uppermost asphalt layer and to build it when the traffic load demands. The construction corresponds to current loads and the construction of the top asphalt layer in the future will not cause the road to penetrate. In doing so, it should be pointed out once again that the National Audit Office prepared an audit "Renovation of the main roads of the state' in 2013. Based on the expert evaluation of Tallinn University of Technology, proposals were made on how to build you cheaper without compromising your quality. The possibility of optimisation was, among other things, a step-by-step construction, which is that the final asphalt layer will be installed 2 to 4 years later when it is needed due to an increase in traffic load. This is done in Finland up to 6 years later. This step-by-step construction has already been applied to the projects of the Tallinn ring road in the last few years and no negative effects have been identified so far. The fifth and final question: "How do you assess the violation of road design standards by the Road Administration and who is responsible for it and how? "It is not appropriate to talk about non-compliance in so far as the relevant legislation, the 2015 MKM Regulation 'Designing rules' allows the use of experience from other countries where road safety is ensured. The Road Administration has used the best engineering-technical knowledge to make solutions. In addition to Estonian norms, Swedish norms have been taken into account. The projects have been prepared by competent engineers and have also been carried out by qualified engineers with a road safety audit and expertise. In doing so, neither the road safety auditor nor the expert who authorised the approval of the project questioned the issues you raised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U10	Questions for the Minister. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Well, we now learned from you that we live in the best of all universes. Thank you for that. However, if you are willing to grieve a little, I will grieve you and give you negative feedback. And you will receive negative feedback from, among other things, ten people killed on our roads in January. Our ways are bad, they're badly maintained. We also heard from representatives of the Road Administration in January that we are in the best shape to maintain roads. My question to you is about the violation of the rules that you deny, however, the violation of the rules has taken place, and about poor road maintenance. Is the tail waving the dog, or is the Road Administration dancing the ministry, or is it the Ministry that gives the orders and regulations and also controls the Road Administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U12	Thank you. If you read anything about the universe from my technical answers, it's your freedom. The inquiry concerned the rules on road construction and was set out in a ministerial decree adopted by 2015. Technical decisions are made by the Road Administration. If you want to move on from road construction to road maintenance, we have a plan at the Ministry of Economic Affairs to amend the State Requirements Regulation in order to introduce new standards before the start of the winter care period in 2018/2019. There have certainly been very sad events in Estonian traffic in January. This is particularly negative because last year was an exceptionally good year in traffic. So few people died in traffic, as was the case in 2017, was the last time in 1945. So day-to-day work to improve road safety goes hand in hand with both road maintenance and road safety improvements. To this end, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications cooperates with the Road Administration every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U13	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U14	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! We all understand that this reduction or amendment of standards is due to the objective of saving money. And that is grateful, with taxpayers' money, that is what must be treated in a sustainable way. My question is: how much is the savings? How much is saved, say, a kilometer or for a particular paragraph? Secondly, there have been repeated talks about how peer reviews say what is sufficient. Internal controls and designers think it's enough. However, the Tallinn ring road is only a project a few years old, for which we have not yet seen actual wear. Yet, what guarantees do we have that these roads will not pass through and go to the rubble, and we will not have to straighten out that road again? Or is that the next minister's problem already?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U15	Thank you for your question. I guess with our traffic load, roads still need to be refaced with a certain regularity. If you now want to know what options are in road construction, i.e. what would be saving points, then the first option is whether the main road is built with lanes 2 + 2 or 2 + 1. If we take it broadly, 2 + 1 will cost 1.5 million euros per kilometre and 2 + 2 will cost 4 million euros per kilometre. As you know, the previous government made a promise that Kose Mäoni should be built with a width of 2 + 2. It is true, however, that the whole project costs EUR 170 million and that the road plan has found a cover for the first 100 million. Thus, finding funding for the complete construction of roads is on the shoulders of the current government. I personally think that 2 + 2 lanes are always much safer than 1 + 1 and that investment should be found for this. This explains in some ways why the National Audit Office carried out an analysis of how it would be possible to build you without damaging road safety, but still cheaply.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U16	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U17	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, These questions were quite technical, and your answers were technical. I'm asking by that simple logic or by the traffic monitor's experience. Following these very tragic news, I have the impression that Ardu was one of the most dangerous sections of the road on the whole route within this two-way section. Does the statistics confirm this, or does it look like it's just a regular monitor? If statistics confirm this, what is more specific about the causes of danger? Can the width of the road be among the reasons or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U18	There are others on Estonian highways that are dangerous. The dangerous place in the Haljala area, which is located on the Tallinn road to Narva, has been highlighted separately. We must bear in mind that, although we can raise standards for winter road maintenance, in Estonia we still do not achieve that, even in the weather, asphalt is dry out at any time. There are weather conditions in our climate that leave some degree of slipperyness at all standards of care. There must also be some response times due to the care cycle. The road user, however, always has the obligation to choose suitable driving techniques in winter conditions. This means that under very bad conditions, we do not have the fundamental right to drive 90 kilometres per hour or faster. In traffic, road users' own caution is always an important factor. Four times a year, the Traffic Commission of the Government of the Republic meets to analyse all tragic accidents. For example, last year, when a summary of fatal accidents was reported to be 47, it turned out that only two machines were more recent than ten years old. So one argument is that our machinery fleet is quite old, while for older cars the risk of fatal consequences is greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U19	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U20	Thank you. These 2 + 1 teas, which you have approved, do not actually suffer the slightest criticism, because they have probably been done according to some Swedish standards. They're so narrow that when a car stops, the whole road is closed, it doesn't fit. If there is a pass-by part, it is so short that you can't get past the cars in the front in that time. If we now make this new road just as narrow, it will increase the risk of traffic. If, as a result of this narrow road bed, cars are left partially on asphalt, then the risk of entering the rear increases, etc. If the standards don't cost anything, why should there be any standards at all? Perhaps there should be no more rules in other areas, such as housing, the food industry, etc. We'd save a lot of money on that, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U21	Thank you, Honourable Henn Põllamaas! I didn't commend you for a 2+1 solution. On the contrary, the government has found additional resources for infrastructure investments and all the money going to the roads has gone for 2 + 2 roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U22	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! It was interesting to listen to the reasons why we are doing this. It's like taking over the good solutions of others somewhere. Why, then, do we not take the good solutions of others and build you with the thickness of the cover that is elsewhere? You've seen it yourself, and I've seen the tables that show that our layers are actually quite smaller. Besides, we have poorer base material on which we support our way. Is what you're talking about right now, that if we put a cover on in a few years, the Finns in six years' time aren't normal wear? Doesn't the fact that we're not building and sticking together at the same time make us pay more money than we would now, at the first building order?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U24	Thank you for your question. The Road Administration, along with its investment committee, has approved our plans. It is not a political choice, it is a road construction expert. They have also relied on the advice that came out of the audit of the National Audit Office on how to improve the quality and road safety of Estonian roads, but at the same time to do so as economically as possible. This audit shows that experts from Tallinn University of Technology have provided useful solutions. One of them is the step-by-step construction of the upper layer. If we didn't count any money in road construction and we were able to implement the ideal program, then no doubt the road would be built at least along the main roads in three directions, 2 + 2 in width and now. Unfortunately, at present, we do not even have half the financial cover to build the four-line road to Mäon.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U25	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! Looks like this government's austerity policy is at the expense of safety. They're gonna narrow it down. They're gonna thinn it up. I saw Euro ditches dug for two on one gravel road in our neighborhood this summer, but it was done on both sides of the road. I made sure that in the winter, one car wouldn't fit right past the other. Why are data collected from other countries and not reflect on our situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U27	Thank you for your question. If you had listened to my first prepared answers, you would have noticed that the selection was already made in December 2014. So the government's austerity policy is not worth talking about in this programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U28	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U29	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! My question is a little under the second rate. If there have been elections, the issue of road maintenance has also come up with the question that it is a little difficult for local authorities to keep you up with their funding. For example, it has become apparent that this concerns Tallinn, where there is a very high traffic load. Has there been talk in your government about the possible situation in order for the state to take the main roads that pass through Tallinn, so-called its own administration, and help to keep them in order?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U30	There has been talk in this government about how we can help those municipalities that have basic streets, which are subject to a great deal of transit traffic. For example, there are settlements where heavy goods vehicles pass through. They have come from one of the state roads in the city or rural municipality, in the meantime use the municipality's roads and then go back to the state highway. This requires a transit route programme for municipalities, which also includes additional heavy goods vehicles. We are trying to help those municipalities whose roads are under an extra load, because there is no passing the settlement on the state road and the urban or rural municipality road is therefore subject to a greater burden. This programme will cost a full amount of EUR 9 million in 2018. True, there were almost three times more applications for grants. It is not possible to satisfy everyone immediately and at once. Such a programme has also existed in previous times, but in a much smaller amount, a million and a half a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U31	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We know that in Sweden, for example, maximum speeds are lower than we do. You said that these road restrictions were taken along the lines of Sweden and other countries. Is it planned that, in the light of ongoing projects and constructions, the maximum speed on these roads will continue to be adjusted, or will it remain the same? In that case, the threat remains quite high.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U33	Thank you for your question. These roads, which are designed in 2 + 2 running widths and where the directions are separated, are designed in such a way that the speed can be increased during the summer season.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U34	Questions have been asked. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U35	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The mouths of the people never shut, and it always speaks the final truth. The mouth of the people, among other things, says: "Small costs double. ' For what we are doing now with our highways, with all these savings, we will pay double in the future. If we now leave the main layer thinner, in a few years' time, we will have to start repairs and additional construction work that will become more expensive than doing this thing at once. There is no doubt about that. Moreover, folk wisdom says: "Man is as big a pig as he is allowed to be. " Please don't take it so that I personally insult someone! Nothing party-like or personal. The fact is, however, that if there is no social pressure on bureaucrats or businesses, they are going overboard, doing less and less. It is inevitable that this is exactly the case. I therefore think that our questioning is one of the manifestations of social pressure so that we are not allowed to go over our feet. I now come specifically to the roads in the Republic of Estonia. Of course, I have not passed every road in Estonia, but I have a lot of driving. On some roads, I have been driving continuously for several decades now, even every day, but at least once a week. And I can say, from this very personal and perhaps limited experience, that some roads have not been repaired more seriously than the coating excluded for at least 25 years. It is a very eloquent fact that, on many occasions, we live on the blissful legacy of the Soviet Union and have not been able to create added value on our own. This is a thought - provoking factor that is also looking back at us from the current question of understanding. If it is made clear to us that already in 2014, the previous government made some decisions, and now the new government must inevitably live up to them, I am sorry, but that is why we changed the government so that we did not have to live with the wrong and short-sighted decisions of the previous government. If the new government is not able to draw such conclusions, then we made the wrong move that we replaced the previous one. Now. We know very well that it is always possible to rely on all kinds of audits in our responses. But I'm sorry, I see that Jesuitism again. In some cases, the results of audits are just as mandatory and justified; in others, we pay no attention to them. It's a Jesuit self-righteous tactic, and frankly, you won't convince us. More. No negative feedback has been claimed. I would like to emphasise once again: negative feedback comes in the form of accidents, injuries and deaths. It is extremely cynical to come here and read us an epistle about choosing the right speed. It's cynical and inappropriate for the 21st century. The developed 21st century Republic of Estonia, the European Union and NATO countries should have 2 + 2 lines and... Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U36	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U37	... the way to meet our weather and climate conditions so that we can also travel in winter at a speed of 110 kilometres per hour, except in cases where, indeed, the sky suddenly starts to rain on little boys and pussies. That could happen, too. In this case, however, I have noticed that most of the Estonian leaders are driving very sensibly and moderately. I'm a long-time driver and I drive bald ice in freezing rain, blizzard, thick snow in all kinds of conditions. By the way, under these extreme conditions, there may be small bumps, but there are usually no major accidents, as most or 99.9% of drivers choose the appropriate speed. The appropriate speed may not be chosen if the road conditions are really good, because then it seems that, uh, what the hell is going on here, now you can take it. There is no point in getting behind the fact that we have too many irresponsible leaders. We have an irresponsible Road Administration that doesn't deal with road maintenance the way it is supposed to. If it is said that the rules do not impose any more, it is the duty of the Ministry and, specifically, of the Minister to deal with the changes in standards, because otherwise we will pay for all these things with human lives. Does the Minister take on moral responsibility for their lives, that is a question. There is no political responsibility in Estonia anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U38	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to negotiate. Does the Minister want to say something at the end of the negotiations? No, I don't. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-02-12_U39	Free mike. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 15.44 p.m.
