ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu, and happy New Year's Eve to you all! We will start the 7th plenary session, i.e. the Monday of the first working week of the spring session, to be milder. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Government representative Heili Tõnisson, the microphone is all yours. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates seven draft laws and submits one draft decision of the Riigikogu. First, the draft measure law. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft Act on Accession of the European Forest Institute to the Convention. Thirdly, the draft Act on the ratification of amendments to the Protocol on Heavy Metals to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act concerning the period of validity of the digital identity card. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior. Fifthly, the draft law amending the State Assets Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. Sixthly, the Act amending the Emergency Act, the Tax Administration Act and the State Defence Penalty Act (calculation of state-defence labour obligations). Seventh, the draft law amending the law on state-defence requisitions. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. And to the eighth, amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu 'Transport Development Plan 2014 In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when processing the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted seven draft laws and one draft decision. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Incoming check, please! 92 members of the Riigikogu will attend the meeting. Now for the adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the first working week of the VII plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 90 members of the Riigikogu to approve the agenda, one abstention, no one against. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U4	Answering questions. The first is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Ants Laaneots, Jüri Jaanson, Valdo Randpere, Aivar Sõerdi, Deniss Borodichi, Urmas Kruuse, Jürgen Ligi, Lauri Luige, Madis Milling, Urve Tiidus, Uno Kaskpeiti, Henn Põljaasa, Raivo Põldaasa, Arno Silla, Jaak Madison, Kalle Pallingu, Kristen Michali, Remo Holsmer, Meelis Mälberg, Arto Aasa, Johannes Kerdi and Igor Gräzini and Kalle Laaneti on defence investments (No 396). The inquiry was submitted on 14 November last year. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U5	Mr. President! Prime Minister! Last September, the largest strategic exercises of the Russian armed forces took place in recent years. Under the leadership of General Staff Commander-in-Chief Gerassimov, a regional war plan prepared by the General Staff was tested in northern Europe. Its aim is to conquer the Baltic States and neutralize Finland, Sweden and Norway. The Western Command participated in the studies almost as a whole with its 6th General Army and 1st Guard tank army, 1st Air and Air Defence Army... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U6	Dear Ants Laaneots! Honourable hall! Ants Laane has a microphone voice, but it could be stronger for this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U7	Closer? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U8	Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U9	... With the 11th army corps and the Baltic fleet located in the Kaliningrad district. In addition, three of the four existing Russian air transport divisions, the North Fleet, the long-range bombing air force, the strategic missile forces, the Spetsnaz Brigades and nearly 9,000 Belarusian troops were involved. Shortly after this exercise, our government reduced the defence budget for this year by EUR 10 million, in a situation where the security situation is rapidly deteriorating. The Minister of Defence has justified the cut on the grounds of the heavy burden on the Western military industry, which does not allow for the rapid provision of the necessary armaments and equipment to the Defence Forces. Why was the budget for the release of money not targeted at other articles, such as the construction of essential infrastructure for the 2nd Brigade of the Defence Forces, or was it not included, for example, in the procurement of self-propelled artillery from Korea, which would enable their weapons to be fully supplied to the artillery unit? With regard to the reduction of the defence budget, we ask you, Mr Prime Minister, to answer the four questions previously sent pursuant to § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U10	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer the questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U11	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, allow me, too, to wish you an active 2018 and a great deal of strength in your work. I would also, of course, like to thank the questioners very much for raising this important issue. In my opinion, it is a great value that, from the beginning of the period of independence in Estonia, there has been a general consensual approach to defence policy, across political party boundaries. This is, in my opinion, a very high value in itself. The heirs have asked four questions, and if the representative of the heirs allows me, I will read them out and then answer them. The first question: 'Why is the government cutting Estonia's defence capabilities in a deteriorating security situation and in an improved economic environment? " The government has neither cut nor cut Estonia's defence capabilities. On the contrary, we can say that Estonia's defence budget for this year is the largest ever, of course, thanks to the Riigikogu and the state budget you have adopted, for the first time it is 524 million and for the first time exceeds the limit of half a billion euros. The aim of the government is to contribute fully to the strengthening of Estonia's defence capabilities, its sustainability. As we know, the defence budget consists of three components. The first of these is the development of an independent defence capacity, i.e. the implementation of the National Defence Development Plan, by using 2% of gross domestic product, which this year means a circa of 490 million euros. Secondly, the investment in infrastructure for allies is €18 million this year and the running costs of accepting allies are €6 million. Thirdly, I understand that there has been controversy around it and, therefore, this issue has been raised, it is true that the government has wanted to do even more from the outset, to do more to increase our defence capabilities, to contribute to our defence investments and to ensure our security. Indeed, the current government has set up a separate defence investment programme with a total of EUR 60 million in 2018 to 2020 and this year's budget represents EUR 10 million. As a result of the transition to an accrual-based state budget, at the end of the previous year, at the end of 2017, there was a broader question as to the level of disbursements of the Defence Investment Programme in 2018 and 2019. This debate even went so far that it was possible to mislead us that money had been taken away from our defence budget. No cents have been taken away, and that is what I assure you here, in the chair of the Chamber of Honourable Riigikogu. As the issues raised eventually hindered the entire state budget procedure, the government made a fundamental decision on the defence investment programme at the end of last year, 7 December. We decided that, if necessary, we will allocate 10 million extra euros from the special-purpose reserve of the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Defence for the purchase of ammunition in 2018. In this case, if the corresponding procurements are carried out faster than expected and if their progress is possible to contribute to our defence activities as early as this year, another ten million would be added to this 10 million. I would reiterate that this would be the case if we could actually get the ammunition in question this year. This, however, is not considered very likely by experts. So we cannot talk about the government's decision to cut the defence budget, because the share of the defence budget still exceeds 2% of gross domestic product. The funds earmarked for investment in the coming years or, in a broader sense, the level of ambition that we set for our defence capabilities in June 2017 when the National Defence Development Plan for 2017 was approved. The second question: 'Do you think that Estonia's defence needs are covered by the fact that you reduce the percentage of defence costs in GDP and that you do not replace the cost of ammunition that is supposed to be delayed due to delays in procurement with other articles? ' Developing defence capabilities, as I said at the beginning of the inquiry, is certainly a long-term activity. The National Defence Development Plan has been prepared with a ten-year view. The current development plan will cover the years 2017 to 2026. One of the important starting points for the implementation of the development plan was keeping the defence budget at a level of at least 2% of gross domestic product, and this has put particular emphasis on increasing the readiness of real units to battle through modern armaments, training and the creation of adequate reserves. To this end, we will increase the armored maneuvering capacity of the Defence Forces through the introduction of both armored infantry battle vehicles and mobile artillery. We will fully develop two brigades and military militias, increase the number of conscripts from 320 to 4000 and create a cyber command. During the 2018-2021 period, it is planned to contribute more than EUR 2 billion to the defence budget to do all of this. Looking at national defence more broadly now, a further EUR 33 million has been earmarked for non-military capabilities development under the National Defence Development Plan for the coming years. This will be added to the budget of ministries and agencies. With this, we intend to develop internal security, security of Estonian foreign representations, strategic state awareness and communication capacity. These are all very important investments, with which we step-by-step develop military and non-military capabilities, which are not only necessary but also feasible and feasible when talking about staff with the necessary know-how for them. I would also like to add that the opinion of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces, as well as of the Specialists of the State Chancellery, the Ministry of the Interior and other institutions, will play a key role in making and planning investments in national defence. This is the basis for a long-term development plan, which is the most determined way to ensure that present and emerging capabilities are preserved. The third question: 'Whose initiative was such a cut-off, was it proposed by the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Finance or imposed on it by coalition partners? ' As I said, this is not a cut. The money has not been cut, i.e. it has not been taken away or used for other purposes. In 2017, we based ourselves on moving from a cash-based budget to a different set of rules, i.e. an accrual-based budget. Due to the time spent on procurement, the cost of this particular ammunition appears to be at the beginning of 2019. In this case, therefore, this is a budgetary issue, which is due to the reality of the situation. I will also repeat what I have already told you in answer to the first question. In particular, the Government decided on 7 December that, if procurement could lead to the purchase of ammunition earlier than at the end of 2018 or early 2019, the Ministry of Finance would have dedicated funds of EUR 10 million. Question 4: "How do you assess as Prime Minister the practice of trying to hide the problem by subsequently changing the September press release on the Ministry of Defence website? " As far as I know, it was about correcting the figures that had become correct during the discussions in the state budget. The Ministry of Defence website has a correct and comprehensive overview of the defence budget allocation in 2018. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U12	A round of questions will be opened in Taavi's garment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U13	Thank you. Well, that last comment was quite good, of course, because I have not noticed before that the state would have corrected the press releases afterwards, even if the facts had to change. Nor do I believe that this 10 million cannot be used this year. I believe it is worth listening to the advice of your coalition partner and Chairman of the National Defence Committee, Hannes Hanso, in this matter, and showing by his actions that, in the meantime, the sums that have been cut off can lead to real investments today. However, I am asking about wide-ranging defence investments. In fact, the previous government booked EUR 70 million in the country's budget strategy for the construction of the eastern border and, at the end of last year, the Minister for the Interior in the Committee on Legal Affairs said surprisingly that your government has decided to postpone the use of this money. I would point out that the money was already in the RES. The question is simple: why?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U14	Thank you. I'll start with your introduction. I would like to reiterate that this year really is the largest military budget in history, which is more than half a billion euros for the first time, namely 524 million euros. When we talk about the fact that the current government coalition has set its own priorities, like each government coalition, we have considered it important to strengthen and develop defence capabilities, as well as to strengthen the External Action Service. A further EUR 60 million is foreseen for defence capabilities in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Now the question is, how is this money planned for the RES? There were 20, 20, 20 million before, and now we see a plan that this year's budget is set at 10 million, next year's budget at 30 and then 20. That's exactly 60 million. I also called it a reason. The reason is, on the one hand, that we are moving to an accruals budget. On the other hand, you say I believe it or not. I'm sorry, good questioner, but these are not the kind of questions politicians can tell us whether we can buy ammo in 2018 or whether we can't buy it in 2018. This decision still comes from specialists in their field. And indeed, there has also been a limp or opportunity in a protocol decision by the Government of the Republic of 7 December, which states what I already said two times in response to your inquiry, that if, for some reason, the procurement of ammunition is faster and we are able to acquire ammunition in 2018, apart from that of 10 million, it will certainly not be an obstacle in financial terms. The corresponding ad hoc reserve allocation of up to EUR 10 million is set out in the budget principles. Now for the construction of the eastern border. The eastern border will continue to be built. I have plans to visit the border building again in the coming weeks, just as I did last year. The question is how investments can be realised in case of an accruals budget. If you're asking if anything is missing, this circum 70 million, I'll say it isn't. You just have to look at what kind of action you're going to have in the year. You know very well that the construction of the eastern border has also been very strongly linked to weather conditions, especially winter time. It depends on whether or not it is possible to build the border so quickly. The volume of investment in construction has certainly not decreased.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U15	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U16	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Completely cross-partyly, please follow your Estonian language, not thank you, for example, about the question, etc. I've told you this before, really, politically. But now the question. We actually know that this 10 million went to balance the budget, and this has been confirmed by your own coalition partners, Margus Tsahkna, Hannes Hanso. We also have information from non-political sources. Tell me, didn't you have any ideas about any cost just now I said the word on purpose, it was appropriate to take advantage of this year's 10 million more?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U17	We are based on the principle that we set out in November 2016 that the additional volume of defence investments, which has actually been created for the first time, will and must be EUR 60 million. If you want to reduce it and take away EUR 10 million, for example, then I assure you, a good questioner, that the government and the current coalition do not support it. We want the volume of additional defence investments to run from 2018 to 2020 and to be EUR 60 million. We certainly do not support your proposal to reduce this in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U18	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! At the end of last year, on 27 September, when you approved this year's budget in the government office, you issued a press release that said victoriously that the government managed to improve the structural balance from 0.4% to 0.25% earlier. Was this shift in defence costs one of the measures with which you improved the structural balance of the budget? And tell me again what the rest of the measures were.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U20	Thank you. Deferral of defence costs, its possible 10 million, is, I think, a fourth time within the framework of the same inquiry, point one, linked to the country's transition to an accrual-based budget, and point two, linked to the fact that specialists in the area have said: these procurements are unlikely to be realised in 2018. Those were two main arguments. As a result of the procurement, it is now possible to realise 10 + 10 million ammunition in 2018, this financial capacity is currently fully available to the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U21	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U22	Thank you. Prime Minister! You mentioned in your answers that this is a matter of budgetary engineering and, in response to Mr Sõerd, you also said that this money is kind of there. As our enquiries go well on record, can you assure the Defence Forces here in front of Parliament that if they start to procure today, that 10 million will be there for them? Because we know that as an extremely correct institution, the Defence Forces are making their plans according to how much money they have been given in advance. If this 10 million is added to them, you will now be able to confirm with one word 'yes' that they will be able to procure the ammunition that was planned under the 20+20+20 scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U23	Thank you. I hope, however, that the members of the Riigikogu will also allow freedom of expression to the respondent here. Good questioner, if you just didn't listen to me or didn't hear me or don't remember my answer to your first question, which has been put to me by many members of the Reform Party Group, then I am of course willing to read this paragraph to you again, it won't take a piece off me. The paragraph I answered to your first question was the following. As the issues raised eventually hindered the entire state budget procedure, the government made a fundamental decision on the defence investment programme at the end of last year, 7 December. What was the decision? We decided that, if necessary, in 2018 we will allocate 10 million euros from the special-purpose reserve of the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Defence for the purchase of ammunition, in addition to the 10 million, which is stated in the state budget. In this case, if the procurement process progressed faster than expected, it would be possible to increase our primary reserve of ammunition needed to start defence activities as early as the end of 2018. I repeat again: that would be if we were able to actually get the ammunition in question this year. Period. That was the answer I answered to your first question. So basically, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U24	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The fact that in the draft budget for 2018, your government initially reduced the amount of EUR 20 million to half of the defence investment programme is a fact. And the fact that you are trying to spin and talk afterwards about the fact that a year after the change of government suddenly came to you in the autumn of last year, as a surprise, the foundations for drawing up an accrual-based budget, or to create the impression that an accrual-based budget would mean automatically delaying investment, is It's bullshit. My question is this: if the draft budget initially included 20 additional million for defence investments, 10 million of which remained, what expenditure or what budget gap did you set aside 10 million to cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U26	Thank you. If you are so specific about the facts, a good questioner, then of course I am prepared to debate these facts against the background. In November 2016, three political parties, the Social Democrats, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and the Centre Party, said that we wanted to strengthen Estonia's defence capabilities. It had long been known that as part of the defence capabilities of the Estonian Defence Forces, there was a problem with the presence of ammunition, or rather its lack. There's equipment, there's tools, but there's no ammunition. Of course, for this purpose, the new coalition found an opportunity for an additional investment of EUR 60 million. The fact is, the previous coalition didn't find it somehow. We haven't cut it by one cent. It is true that, compared to the previous coalition, this is not a complaint ♪ we have increased defence investments by a total amount of EUR 60 million. The previous coalition did not want to do so under the leadership of the Reform Party. I don't know why that is, but I'm sure you know better than that. You also know very well that it is not in the budget that if one line goes away, it will go for something. That is not the case, because the budget is one big whole. It is also true that you may not have been in government budget preparation when the budget is accrual-based. We need to see exactly when these obligations will arise, and then they will be taken up. A concrete example is now under way. The truth is that, since defence investments are so important and are a priority for the current government, we have created this additional opportunity, we can also say additional certainty on which I have just recently responded to your good and good party chairman, Hanno Pevkur. I have said that on 7 December, the government decided that we would be willing to invest 10 million in addition as early as 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U27	Next up, Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! The decision of this government to postpone this 10 million into next year's budget has also been repeatedly criticised by the former Minister of Defence, Margus Tsahkna, and the current chairman of the National Defence Commission, Hannes Hanso, who is also part of the coalition. They have repeatedly argued that, if they actually wanted to do so, this ammunition could still be received during the course of this year. You say the opposite. Therefore, one party must be more unprofessional or less familiar with its claims. Are you saying here now that the former Minister of Defence and the current chairman of the National Defence Commission are not competent enough to evaluate and criticise the government's decision to postpone 10 million large investments in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U29	Thank you. First of all, I am not saying from this speech chair in the Riigikogu that the members of the Riigikogu cannot criticize the government in any way. Maybe that was the case with another government once. That is certainly not the case now. Criticism always leads to life. Now, in answering your question about Mr Tsahkna and Mr Hanso, I think they are really strong experts in the field of defence. In fact, the question that arose in society, and on which Mr Tsahkna and Mr Hanso spoke, was the answer. This was resolved by the protocol of the Government of the Republic of 7 December, which I think I have quoted here four or five times. Therefore, it seems to me that on this issue we have found a common line, a common position, with both honourable members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U30	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U31	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! You said, among other things, by highlighting the big numbers here, that you intend to fully arm the second brigade. This is a very good plan in itself. I'm gonna have to ask you that now. We're arguing over 10 million here. How do you intend to finance it, and in what time? At the moment, the defence budget is 523 million, if I remember correctly, and supplying one battalion-arming could cost about 500 million. If we have three battalions in the brigade, that's a billion and a half, I think it's going to get complicated down there. So, what time does this happen, the total weaponization of the other brigade?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U32	Thank you. 524 million, but I will make a little bit of a clarification here that it really also contains the 10 million that will be added to the 10 million if procurement goes faster, then it will have to be added to the 10 million to 524. My answer to your second question was as follows: 'To this end, we will increase the armored maneuvering capacity of the Defence Forces through the introduction of both armored infantry battle vehicles and mobile artillery. We will fully develop two brigades and military militias, increase the number of conscripts from 320 to 4000 and create a cyber command. During the 2018-2021 period, it is planned to contribute more than EUR 2 billion to the defence budget to do all of this. " This activity will begin over the years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U33	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have to say that I still did not fully understand your answer to what happened to this EUR 10 million. Was that the direction of the budget balance or where? So where's the money? There is no answer to that. But my main question at the first session of the year is this: how big will the budget deficit of this year be on the basis of today's knowledge? You planned this 61 million, but now it is clear that excise duties have been wrongly assessed. How big are we really gonna get?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U35	Thank you. First of all, in answer to the first part of your question, I am, of course, willing to repeat again. We are talking about a total of 60 million in additional defence investments. And, as I said, it has also been decided that in 2018 we will allocate 10 million extra euros from the special-purpose reserve of the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Defence for the purchase of ammunition, if necessary. So the answer to the question where it is: it is a reserve of special-purpose resources for the Ministry of Finance. That is an interesting statement now, when you say at the beginning of January, on 8 January, that the receipts will not be full. The revenue from excise policy is not planned for the budget. I don't think there's anyone here at the moment to know if it's coming or not coming full. After all, we are also getting economic forecasts, say, especially fiscal fiscal forecasts, from the Ministry of Finance. As far as I know, the first forecasts and initial amounts, or, let's say, information on the implementation of the budget on which to make new decisions, will come in spring when we start discussing the country's budgetary strategy. The Ministry of Finance has to be commended for the fact that if we base our summer forecasts on alcohol policy and border trade, in particular, the summer forecasts for 2017 have been kept.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U36	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U37	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! First of all, I thank you for admitting that there is enough competence in the Riigikogu to make a very constructive contribution to national defence matters. This is where I'm going to have a big problem. I have also contacted very many people in this area, both here and there, and it has been quite clear that I have received such an answer from all sides that it is possible to obtain large quantities of ammunition. This practice is entirely present in the world. You said the Defence Forces made a recommendation or said it couldn't be obtained in such a time. I am very interested in who these counselors were and whether their competence should not be questioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U38	Thank you. First of all, the problems are to overcome, honourable member of the Riigikogu! I think if there's anything I can do to help here, I'll of course help you, point one. Point two is that I do not doubt the competence of the Defence Forces. On the contrary, I appreciate their professionalism. And point three is that there is no problem. If procurement is carried out and if it is possible to obtain the Moon 2018, the funds will be available.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U39	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U40	Mr. Prime Minister! You mentioned that the Government of the Republic will increase the number of conscripts, I understand, from the current 320 to 4000 by 2020. We have been preparing about 60,000 reserve troops since 1997 when military service was converted into military units. The entire military period of the Defence Forces is, as you mentioned, two brigades in the army plus about 6,000 militias and a very small number of air and navy, a total of about 21000 people. Although we already have weapons in this Republic for about 80,000 fighters. Where, then, will the non-war reserve troops in the event of a crisis now have a surplus of about 36000 to 38000 and how can they contribute to the defence of Estonia in the event of a war or crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U41	Thank you. First of all, this increase in the number of conscripts from 320 to 4000 is a rather ambitious goal, there is nothing to deny. If we look at how many young men are entering the service now, and many of them are excluded for one, another or third health reasons, that is, of course, a problem. For this reason, certain changes have also been adopted with regard to health indicators, that young people can enter the service, that health reasons are no longer an obstacle. This is the basis where we really hope that the number of conscripts from 320 can reach 4,000. And, as I said, in this case, I am relying on the data from 2018 to 2021, which relate in particular to the development plan in the field of defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U42	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Today's war is based on the firepower of our nuclear weapons. The firepower of the units is designed to disengage the enemy's vital forces and other physical objects. There's no firepower if there's no ammunition. You should know that the Estonian Defence Forces actually have a rather considerable shortage of ammunition. We are not talking about months' worth of ammunition, we are talking about days' worth of ammunition. We are talking about the Suwalk corridor, which is cutting through, as well as the Baltic Sea, where there is no NATO fleet to prevent the isolation of the Baltic States. This means that we must have a considerable supply of ammunition on the ground. Do you not think that all these manipulations around this EUR 10 million are saying that we do not understand: ammunition must be present and it must be a priority, because otherwise we can, I cannot say, start playing paintball. Does the government understand the very existential importance of this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U44	Mr. Helme, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U45	Thank you. I would like to thank you for this minute and for the 27-second question. I think it's the same with you. We don't have enough ammo. I fully share your view. Therefore, I do not understand the criticism or problem-setting that one opposition party, the Reform Party, is currently carrying. Of course, we need to invest ammo. Of course, there is a need to increase defence investments. This has been the one and only basis for this programme, so that we can really, as you say, increase the number of days of ammunition reserves. In this sense, Mr Helme, I fully agree with you: there must be a contribution here. The coalition saw the opportunity and the ability to contribute an additional EUR 60 million, and we will not withdraw from this decision. So in this sense, you, let's say, raise the question or philosophy in the right position. Yes, we need to increase our ammunition supply to increase the number of days.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U46	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is one minute to ask, and in that time the question must be formulated. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U47	Thank you. Prime Minister! You have just been asked about increasing the resources or human resources of the Defence Forces. You replied that medical requirements have been relaxed for this purpose. If you look at the National Defence Development Plan, as well as the comprehensive national defence system and, on the other hand, put discussions on how national defence spending could be 2.5% of GDP in the future, this raises the question of involving people. What is your position on the inclusion of disabled people in the military service?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U48	Thank you. I think that if there are as many people as possible who wish to contribute to the defence capabilities of the Estonian state, whatever their degree of disability, this should certainly not be an obstacle. The question is whether, in every individual case, we will find some real application for a person who has actually been released from military service because of his or her disability. At the same time, I think that any additional contribution to Estonia's security is welcome. Mr Helme was talking about firepower here, but we also see the importance of defence and security issues such as cyber defence. I said the same thing: I need to increase cyber capabilities. Just because there's a physical disability doesn't mean that a person can't bet on a certain defense unit. Yes, it can. Very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U49	Good Prime Minister, the members of the Riigikogu have no more questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. First, Jaanus Karlai has expressed his wish to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U50	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, In any case, this inquiry proves that the Reform Party is not a friend of Estonia. In the meantime, I thought that the head of the Reform Party, Jürgen Ligi, was down from shame and no more seeing him in the hall, but somehow he's infiltrated here. I think that a serious Estonian friend and group chairman would not allow such a false questioning to be made through, but would also read what questions have been put here, and would understand the facts. The first question is already wrong in nature. When the Reform Party led the government, 386 million euros were contributed to the defence capabilities in 2015 and 423 million euros in 2016. Now, under the leadership of the Centre Party, EUR 524 million will be invested in defence capabilities. Those are the facts, friends! There is no point in talking about any security cuts and then trying to secure every issue in order to pick up a primitive political point. There is so much ethics and morality that not every subject is a cheap policy. Look at the facts! In 2015, when the Centre Party presented a draft to increase its own defence capabilities, which contained four very strong pillars, we also showed our security holes. Later, the Reform Party dragged in as a follow - up cart and actually admitted that there were such problems. Population protection, cooperation with local governments and rural governments were completely non-existent during the governance of the Reform Party. If we had asked the rural elders, the parish elders and the mayors of that time how they would behave at the moment of the crisis, the answer would have been that they did not really know how, because cooperation with the central authority has been nonexistent. We've shown another security hole, a super-short-range shoulder-on-the-shoulder anti-aircraft missiles. We have shown that the concept of coastal surveillance and protection is non-existent and incomplete. We have demonstrated that up-to-date communication systems are needed to manage military operations. The Reform Party did not support this draft. You've become a security risk. The only political party that supported the Central Party draft was the Estonian Conservative People's Party. So you're no longer the spokesperson in security policy, you're a follower. The Centre Party, however, has become the builder and spokesperson of security policy. Look at the facts! You can make faces, you can create emotions. I understand that this threat to security and lying has brought you success in domestic politics, but these lies are no longer far behind. Thank God that such a story happened, in fact, it is embarrassing that it was only in 2014 and 2015, when the case of the Eston Suitcase began to move to build the eastern border. For 17 years, you ran the country, but you couldn't build the eastern border. Aren't you embarrassed? And you're telling us about security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U51	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U52	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite horrible to see what kind of people are in the Riigikogu and who are in charge of the faction that I am talking about the previous speaker here, and to what level the Prime Minister is able to fall to in his answers. When I asked the Prime Minister if he didn't have an idea for that 10 million, he said I didn't agree with your proposal to withdraw 10 million, and I think he also replied to Mart Helme. I didn't hear the whole answer, but that's what I concluded from the reaction. This is a relatively cheeky way of communicating with the Riigikogu. This text, which was presented here by Jaanus Karilaid, was still below the belt. First of all, the starting point for this inquiry is that we know that 10 million were taken to cover electoral promises and coalition agreements. After the game was played that the world defence industry would complete its procurement at exactly the turn of the year and there would be no way to spend more than 10 million this year. All right, if the world's defence industry is so tiny and there's no way we can make that call, we could have spent money sooner. Since there was an accusation on the subject of periods, we have been following this principle for the last few years, that 2% plus the cost of the allies being here is the minimum. It represented a percentage of 2.2 and a little after a percentage of GDP. This is the absolute value of the liabilities sensitive to health disability - morbidity risk, after the shock. The new government decided not to keep that percentage. Okay, defined it as 2% plus allies' expenses, but the percentage may decrease. We wouldn't have wanted to cut the percentage. The amount was then about 2.11% less than before. It wouldn't have been a lot of mouths on this subject, and I never did, but if it was taken out of the defence budget 10 million specifically, it went to cover some lame promises, but it was driven to the origins and the inability of the world defence industry, that's where I came up with the question of whether there really wasn't an idea. And you'll see how wonderful the ideas Jaanus read here. If he knows about our security holes and claims that he once presented this bill, then his knowledge must have come from another intelligence. Or did they come from our government and defense plans? Our defence plans were adopted at the level of the Riigikogu. We knew what was missing, we made defense plans, and according to it, we built our defenses. We know there are shortcomings. Our question was why you didn't find any ideas to cover these shortcomings. Why didn't it go 10 million? The thing is, we're gonna put it in reserve in case we have to, well, that's a debian story. Jaanus Karilaid is coming here to tell us that we have such big holes, but that's what 10 million we took anyway. Isn't there a contradiction? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come What kind of spokesperson are you? We had a specific question. We knew it from the officials, we knew it from the ex-Defence Minister, we knew it from the Chairman of the National Defence Commission, they're all under the control of the coalition, that IRL needed to surrender 10 million. It's a suggestion we're gonna give it away, we're gonna play dumb with it. We know that! That was the reason we were asked. We could have answered something honestly, but we came here to tell you that, oh, we actually have a country unprotected, but 10 million we took away the worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U53	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U54	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this question has been submitted, and I am very pleased that this question has also been raised somewhat in response. It is not just a question of 10 million, because indeed, 10 million euros in the state budget is quite a small amount at present. The question is something else. The question is that we can never talk too much about security in our geopolitical position. In the case of our small country, it is absolutely not worth saying that we are not as prepared for self-defense as possible. I wanted to know about my question on the ground, and to some extent I received an answer, whether the priority of the current government is still that our readiness is such that we really should not fight the stones and sticks, but that we could have the firepower of today's level. The potential opponent has this firepower, and it's very powerful. I believe that most of the people in this hall have watched Zapad 2017 video clips as many as they have been shown on the news and elsewhere. Well, this firepower is still impressive, it's not just a joke. By that fire, people are going to die. In war, people are killed. It's like there's no such thing as this these days. It's like some action movie shooting blanks, then unplugging the shirt and taking the blood imitation bag out of it. It's like war is like this. No, it's not! What's the matter? The propagands, of course, go over their heads, so the guard's splinting out to the moon. The defence budget has increased by 60 million. Respectables! The state budget has also increased. And as Mr Ligi rightly said, our percentage of defence expenditure is essentially the same. This zero-cod swing is not, frankly, the thing that propagandaly beats each other with swords. Basically, our defence costs are the same as a percentage. The state budget has grown, the money has gone cheaper. The question remains: what do we get with this money, and do we spend it wisely? I understand, and I agree, that allies need to build barracks, that polygons need to be made appropriate to enable heavy tanks to be drilled there, etc. It's all about money. But the allies are leaving with their tanks. They came today, they're going tomorrow, they're rotating. Today, we have planes on Ämar, and maybe tomorrow we don't have any more. We have to be able to defend ourselves. That's not possible without ammo. I have already pointed out that we are in a geopolitically extremely vulnerable situation. In meetings with all our allies, all our influential allies, we have raised the issue of how to bring the fleet to the Baltic Sea, which our potential opponent must take into account every day. It must be considered that he cannot be certain that he will isolate us from the sea. So far, there is no answer to that. This means that we cannot be sure, on the contrary, we can be quite sure that we will be cut off by the sea. Suwalk Corridor. Even if our opponent can only hold the Suwalk Corridor for a certain number of days, it means that our supply lines are either broken or they do not work with the power that we need to protect such a level that we can resist until the conflict reaches the level where our potential opponent is forced to shut down his machinery. These are existential issues. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U55	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U56	This is no place for political propaganda right now. We always love to talk when we visit our friends, allies, that we have a consensus on defence policy issues. That is quite the case, but in reality we see that there is no consensus when it comes to this. After all, we also know that the members of the government know that our ammunition reserves are inadequate. Ants Laaneots has repeatedly raised the issue that we have too few men to put down a gun by mobilization. Even if we catch those 21,000 men, the less ammo we've got in here for every man we've got. These are very serious questions, and I am very sorry if there is blame and propaganda going on in this Chamber instead of serious debate. Propaganda can be patched up for a certain time, but not forever. On defence policy issues, I call on all governments, political parties and political groups not to beat each other with propaganda, but to talk about the matter and seek solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U57	There are no further requests to speak. Mr. Prime Minister, do you have anything to say in return? No, it's not. Then we are done with this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U58	We will proceed to the second item on the agenda, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlleaas, Uno Kaskpeiti, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla, on 18 December, on Estonia's participation in the new plan for the redistribution of migrants. Please, the inquisitors! Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year will last. On 18 December last year, members of the Conservative People's Party Group submitted an inquiry to Mr. Prime Minister Ratas. The subject is still a passionate migration policy. In September, the European Commission proposed to the Member States voluntary adoption of 50000 persons arriving directly from North Africa and from the Middle East to Europe. Some countries have already said in advance that they will not be involved in this because it is a voluntary "help each other." Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Estonia has taken the view that we could receive 80 persons within two years and, even more so, count these 80 as 550 persons agreed in the autumn of 2015. At the same time, the agreement that allowed 550 people to be adopted has already expired as a result of the two-year period. Since this topic is important to Estonia as a whole, I think we have four questions. Why did the government decide to accept 80 persons, or rather to propose that the Commission on European Union Affairs accept such a plan? This programme will come to the Commission's table at its meeting on Friday. The second question: why are these persons included in 550 persons, even though the agreed distribution plan at the time has expired? The third question: why do we prefer to take in people voluntarily, even though the financial resources they spend could be directed directly to the hotspots and refugee camps to support people there? And the fourth question: how do the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Prime Minister view those Member States that do not voluntarily accept refugees? These countries are Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland and, according to today's data, Latvia. These countries have voluntarily refused to participate in the redistribution scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U60	Speaking chair, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U61	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I would also like to thank the members of the EKRE Group for their questioning and, if I may, I will reply by reading the question and then giving the answer. The first question: "Why has the government agreed to accept 80 persons if no treaty is required to do so? ' Resettlement is an important measure to alleviate illegal immigration to the European Union. This will help save lives and reduce pressure on the countries of the frontier. In this context, Estonia follows the call made by the European Commission in its communication and recommendation of 27 September 2017 for the voluntary resettlement of 50000 refugees from war. 19 European countries have already responded to this call and have announced their willingness to resettle a total of 39758 people. There is no compulsory quota for resettlement; each country decides on its own absorption capacity. Estonia's capacity has been around 40 people a year, based on the experience of the last two years. About that much of the relocated and displaced people have survived here a year. On this basis, the government has decided to continue resettlement as a means of resolving the migration crisis and has proposed to resettle 80 people in need of international protection from Turkey in the next two years: 40 in 2018 and 40 in 2019. We want to resolve the problems constructively and, of course, to show solidarity with other Member States, just as others have been with us. The second question: 'Why does the government wish to include these individuals among 550 persons who were allowed to be admitted within two years from September 2015 when the agreement expired? ' Estonia agreed on its reception capacity, which was indeed 550 persons, in 2015. We are still taking this same number to make our decision: we are not accepting any more people. Indeed, new resettlement or relocation procedures under the 2015 Migration Plan will not be initiated in Estonia. As far as relocation is concerned, we have relocated 145 people to date: 141 from Greece and 4 from Italy. We have displaced 30 people from Turkey. At the end of the year, there were 50 people in progress, 6 from Italy and 44 from Turkey, with procedures being completed. If a positive decision is taken on all pending proceedings, i.e. both parties agree to the solution, we will receive the total number of people to be accepted in 2015 to 2019, 145 (so many we have accepted) plus 30 (so many have been resettled), plus 50 and plus 80, which is 305 persons in total. That's the maximum. The third question: 'Why is our government willing to accept migrants voluntarily, how much more cost-effective would it be to assist war refugees in crisis and refugee camps? 'The problem of migration can be effectively addressed by combining different measures. I would like to emphasise that only those who are entitled to international protection are people who are fleeing from war or persecution whose lives and health would be at risk in their home country. Indeed, it is more cost-effective to decide on the need for international protection in refugee camps in third countries on the ground, whether it be Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon or Libya. It is also possible to send people back faster and more easily if the request is unfounded. The European Commission's proposal is based on this principle. One of the objectives of the proposal is to reduce migratory pressure on the external borders of the European Union and on the migration authorities of the Member States and to open legal migration routes to those in need. Resettlement, however, is not the only way to alleviate migratory pressures. Similarly, Member States contribute financially to the Trust Fund for Africa set up by the European Union. The European Union is channelling funds according to the Foreign Investment Plan. In both cases, it is the root causes of migration that are being addressed. Question 4: How does the Government of the Republic view those countries of the European Union that do not agree to participate in the distribution of migrants between Member States? Why are we not in solidarity with Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland, which do not agree with the quota system? ' I thank the good heirs here to name this keyword'solidarity'! The Estonian Government has decided to resolve the refugee crisis precisely because of solidarity with countries under migratory pressure and in the common interest of all the countries of the European Union. We are also constructive in helping war refugees and those in need, but we also pay attention to the security and integration capacity of our own society. I think that the so-called'mandatory quotas' have received disproportionate attention. Relocation is only part of a larger package of measures that can help Member States in distress. This is also possible, for example, by sending experts, taking part in the costs, or indeed by acting in the country of origin of migration. These are all important opportunities and measures for Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U62	Good Prime Minister, there are questions for you. Jaak Madison will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I cannot agree in any way with your argument that too much attention has been paid to the quota system. That's the point. It's one big problem. I'm not gonna ask you questions here for a long time, because the answers are gonna start swimming around the corner and really spreading out. I have a specific question. How do we define volunteering in a situation where the European Commission is threatening certain Member States with sanctions? Indeed, the European Commission has threatened Poland that, if Poland does not accept migrants and participate in the redistribution scheme, certain subsidies may fall from European Union funds. How do we feel about a system called voluntary, but in practice, coercive measures are being taken against Member States that do not agree with this part of solidarity? I stress, in one part, that solidarity is also because Hungary has spent more than EUR 1 billion on defending its borders in order to prevent the flow of illegal migrants to the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U64	Thank you. When we are talking about voluntary resettlement of 50,000 people, I have not heard from anywhere, not from my colleagues in the Czech Republic, Poland or Hungary, that some decisions restricting their subsidies are being taken, that is, as you said, sanctions are being imposed, giving them less support or other financial resources from the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U65	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U66	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. In the Committee on European Union Affairs, this issue will be discussed on Friday. The explanatory memorandum to the Commission communication states that the Commission is asking all Member States to participate in this scheme and is also threatening sanctions. Of course, whether immigrants are accepted or not is a matter of political choice, of political decision, if Estonia is a sovereign state. We know that Sweden is eager to participate in this campaign and welcomes over 8 000 people from Turkey. At the same time, Latvia receives zero people. So it's a question of choice how to decide. Our party continues to confirm that Estonia's quota is zero, we should not receive either 80 or 145 people. But here's my question. There are 60 million war refugees in the world, and this number is constantly growing. We can't save 80 or 50,000 of them, we can't solve the world's problems. However, Estonia is currently participating in over-rolling the sovereignty of the Member States of the European Union, undermining the countries on the line of sovereignty, namely Latvia, Hungary and Poland. Is that the view of our government that sovereignty is meaningless?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U67	I don't know where you take it. I think that sovereignty is the most important thing. That's point one. Point two: Are we somehow rolling over someone or something? No roll! I also said in my reply that in addition to resettlement now, it was a question of resettlement, which is really voluntary, there are a lot of other measures. We cannot say that only resettlement must resolve the refugee crisis. It's not like that! A trust fund has been set up for Africa. I remember that Estonia was perhaps one of the most active callers at the beginning of the summer of 2017 and in the second half of the summer so that the African Trust Fund could be more invested. It seemed then that the total target of EUR 110 million was very, very far away. I think that, as President-in-Office, Estonia played a role in ensuring that Member States contribute more to the fund, quite large. Including Estonia, Estonia made its contribution there. Now, the protection of the external borders. Let us take the same agreement that has been concluded between Turkey and the European Union. In fact, we need solidarity both in the external dimension and in the internal dimension. We need all these measures. The best thing, of course, is that we can resolve the refugee crisis in such a way that, for example, refugees from Africa do not come to Europe again. But there is still a very, very long way to go to fully solve this problem through the African Trust Fund. I mentioned the so-called "frontier" countries here. We must certainly recognise the countries that have been forced to receive the most refugees from across the Mediterranean. For example, Italy. The efforts made by these countries in their relations with certain African countries in order to find solutions definitely deserve recognition.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U68	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U69	Thank you. You used the word "cost efficiency." In this regard, I am very interested in these figures as to how much we spend in Estonia on one refugee. How much do we spend on the person we've given asylum to? After all, there are all kinds of benefits: rent, translation and support person's fees, all municipal benefits, sickness fund and unemployment fund, as well as educational expenses, subsistence allowances, etc. We know that this money comes from different cost lines and basically it works out that money is being thrown out, but nobody counts it. I asked the people of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for that today in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but they couldn't tell me how much we were spending. I hope the Prime Minister knows.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U70	Thank you. First of all, the general principle has been that discussions with war refugees who come to Estonia are held elsewhere at first. Before resettlement, people have been interviewed, for example, in Turkey, before relocation in Greece. These interviews have been linked to three authorities: they talk to representatives of the social sector, the Defence Police and the Police and Border Guard Board. It is Estonia's wish that the people who come here, who are good when it comes to family, have real motivation to come here, here to find an application through work, through children's studies. Of course, local authorities are a very important partner for the government in this project. You are asking for specific costs, but I am not ready to tell you right here about a cent or a euro. But I can certainly ask that this information be sent to you. That's what I'm asking for, and this information will be forwarded to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U71	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We hear stamp phrases here in a row: war refugees, asylum seekers. In fact, we know that the war in Syria has practically ended, that people in Africa are moving not so much off the coast of Libya as just looking for a better life. You keep saying that we must show solidarity with certain front countries or with the frontier countries. These countries are responsible for their own accidents, because for years they have not guarded their borders, have not kept their borders under control. Frontex is working on transporting boats to the European beach, not back to Libya, Syria or Turkey. That's a whirlwind logic. However, I want to ask you very seriously whether you are more in solidarity with Italy, or whether you are more in solidarity with Latvia, which is our historic neighbour and our destiny partner. Which one are you more in solidarity with? As you can see, nothing evil has happened to Latvia, even though it abstained from voting in Jerusalem...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U73	Mr Helme, I really need to call you back now, the last question has gone too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U74	Thank you. Fortunately, the respondent has the freedom to respond as he or she wishes. I am certainly not going to judge the Member States of the European Union, Italy or Latvia, or anyone, on the basis of the weight of solidarity. The countries currently in the European Union are all close to Estonia. In any case, if we want to be part of the European Union and the data from the last survey in Estonian society say that 79% of Estonians consider it important that Estonia belongs to the European Union, then we must share the joys of all, but also the common concerns. On Wednesday this week, we will see Italians performing air security for the first time in Estonia under the auspices of NATO. After all, we are also part of another cooperation organisation and we can live under NATO umbrella. Latvia has been a very close country to us in history either way: it is a neighbouring country; we have very good relations with it. But to put here the weight of who is closest to us in terms of solidarity, I do not think it has to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U75	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U76	There's nothing we can do about it. There's still weight. You named both Italy and Hungary as front countries. In my opinion, this comparison was extremely inappropriate and, I would say, deeply immoral. Hungary has defended Europe, while Italy has opened its border and participated in international trafficking in human beings until recently. By the way, a few years ago, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this subject specifically. We have, in a peculiar way, started to oppose our friends everywhere: with Mogherin against the United States, with the European Union against Poland, with the European Commission against Austria and Hungary, with the United Nations against Israel, and so on. We unmistakably find our friends and think about how to hurt them. That is why I am asking: what would not be a financial but a purely political opportunity to support a country like Poland, for example, which urgently needs political support in the current conflict with the European Union? Poland needs our solidarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U77	Thank you. I think that every effort must be made to ensure that Article 7 (2) of the Treaty on European Union does not apply. Every effort must be made to ensure that these issues are resolved first.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U78	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I also do not understand why we are not helping these people in the camps on the ground by allocating money and other resources to them. These people's understanding of life doesn't match our people's, their culture is different. We have a good example here: the man set his wife on fire and thought that this was the right thing to do. Why does the government want us to create domestic tensions by dragging people from another cultural space who do not fit in here? Why is it necessary to grovel and bow before the European Union when there are several countries that have abandoned it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U80	Thank you. They certainly have not given up solidarity. I think you mean mainly the Visegrád countries, which have under no circumstances given up solidarity in external communication. You asked why we didn't contribute financially to solving the issues at source already on the ground. Yes, we are. For example, the same African trust fund I was talking about, Estonia has contributed 1.45 million euros to it. That is the solidarity of the 'external dimension'. There is also solidarity in the internal dimension. I do not see one, another or third country groveling before anyone within the European Union, as you said. I call it cooperation, because if the 28 countries want to contribute together to some Union, they need to find a common part, and they need to find a common part on these difficult issues as well. After all, Estonia's proposal for relocation, based on the Dublin Regulation, was that a Member State should be willing to accept people. This must be done on a voluntary basis; the voluntary aspect is important. Estonia has never said that quotas are appropriate for us. But solidarity can also be shown on a voluntary basis and, in the case of resettlement, which is the focus of your inquiry, our solidarity is reflected in the acceptance of 80 people. You're asking why we don't bet money. Let us take the example of this agreement between the European Union and Turkey. The European Union has said that it is prepared to contribute EUR 3 billion to this agreement, if I am not mistaken. Some time ago, the investments made so far amounted to EUR 800 million. Of course we bet!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U81	Good Prime Minister, there are no more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. The first to negotiate is Martin Helme. Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U82	Prime Minister! Good deputy speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Well, on the internal aspect of solidarity, we will soon be wrestling here. There are too many pensioners who have now been made poorer by the government. But let's come to today's topic. The specific decision that the government has now brought before Parliament is not the same as the previous government's decision to take part in the admission of immigrants under the quota system. This is the decision of the central party government, the government of Jüri Ratas, to start bringing immigrants from Islamic countries and Africa to Estonia. The most embarrassing thing is that the public has been tried to give the impression that the admission of these people is part of the quota agreement of the previous government. However, in the course of today's inquiry, we have received a very clear answer that this is no longer the case for the 2015 quota system. Yes, there are a number of people whose applications are still in the process and who have not yet arrived here, but who will be brought to Estonia sometime. The 80 people who are now brought here from Turkey are not covered by this old system. In other words, the left-wing government led by the Centre Party voluntarily participates in bringing immigrants from Turkey to Estonia, and it does so, of course, not out of its wisdom, but out of obedience to Brussels. He is doing this because the European Commission has decided completely insanely, on the basis of some incomprehensible logic, that if we start bringing young angry men here from Turkey or Libya with planes, it will somehow reduce immigration pressure on the border with Italy or Greece. This is completely absurd! Of course not! It just makes one more channel. As we have already heard from Mr Helme's speech, it is similar to the channel that is currently Frontex, which is essentially transporting immigrants to Europe by means of a military procedure with taxpayers' money. As Igor Gräzin said, we now have a government that always chooses the wrong side. Now our government has chosen the wrong side within the European Union, participating in the process of hijacking the power of the European Commission, which undermines the sovereignty of the Member States. Whoever can come to Estonia, under what conditions, for how long, must ultimately be the decision of the government here, the people here. It can't come from anywhere on the outside. And there is no more obscene word today in the European political jargon than there is solidarity, because there is no disgusting piggy that is not sold to the public in the shadow of that word. If Greece needs to pay its debts or if it is necessary to bring immigrants into the country, legalise illegal immigrants, call them refugees, then we will still hear food and food talk about solidarity. There is, of course, no solidarity here. The solidarity of the government must be with only one company, it is the Estonian people, their own voters. When we talk about bailing out Turkey under the pressure of migration, as the Prime Minister said, Turkey will be paid EUR 3 billion for not allowing immigrants to cross its borders towards Europe. The only reason why this has to be done is because Europe has given up its own borders. There was a time when every country made sure that its borders were not crossed illegally. Each country took care of it itself. But just as, at the time of the fall of the Roman state, barbarians were paid not to attack, the European Union has now begun to pay Turkey to prevent uncontrolled human flows from going to Europe. It's completely backwards. Once again, I stress that the biggest problems in the current government policy are two. First of all, they are trying to make it look like it was a part of a number that had already been agreed. No, it's not! This is a completely new scheme with which our government, too, has now accepted the new government, calling it voluntary consent. But we all know that this regulation has come from Brussels as ordered. The second problem is that we are on the wrong side within the European Union. We should stick together with countries that have the same interests as we do. These countries are Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Hungary, and now Austria, too, who does not agree that the central power of the European Union is imposing on them people they do not want there. I strongly advise you to consider whether the government of Jüri Ratas wishes to be, like our previous government, a party to the fact that it itself imports Muslims and Africans into Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U83	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! You listen to the answers here, and it feels like déjà vu since 2015 when there was a distribution scheme of 120,000 people on the table in the European Union. The Prime Minister was in Taavi Kõiva and the answers were almost exactly the same: solidarity, volunteering, helping each other. Nothing's changed in the past two and a half years. The rhetoric and migration policy, the approach to resolving this crisis, is exactly the same. It is therefore true that there is no difference between the Centre Party and the Reform Party, two sides of one coin. Also at European Union level, in the European Parliament, you are together in one political group in a friendly way. Yana Toom sits almost next to Kaja Kallas. And the same thing is Estonia's internal politics. It is now a question of sovereignty and the right to decide for ourselves who we accept, why we take, how much we take. On this issue, too, you are on the same side. Igor Gräzin asked what political steps we could take to support Poland in the current situation, where the European Commission has threatened Poland for its legal reforms and also for its non-participation in the redistribution of migrants. Your answer was that, in accordance with Article 7 (2) of the Europe Agreement, we will do everything possible. I expect you to come back to this remote control for a final word and explain a little bit more about what these steps are, however, how we show solidarity with Poland, which is part of the Eastern European region with us. I am very proud that we can be in the same region as Poland. How can we support him politically? What are these steps in particular? When it comes to discussing, for example, the European Council, where you, for example, must be at the table as a representative of the Troika, or as a representative of the former Presidency, how will Estonia vote if it is necessary to decide to impose sanctions on Poland? So what are you gonna do? Do you really continue to fuck with the European Commission and Germany, or do you dare to say that we are a sovereign state and we will decide as we want, and we want to support Poland? Second. As far as solidarity is concerned, you said that the European Commission has not threatened sanctions, and you quickly added that you mean this programme for allocating 50,000 people. I was talking about the previous scheme, which was supposed to be voluntary. You mentioned repeatedly that we volunteered to participate in the redistribution scheme. If memory does not deceive me, on 14 September 2015, when the European Union Affairs Commission gave the government a mandate to give priority to voluntary assistance to each other, this was precisely the wording: we prefer voluntary assistance to each other. This matter went to the vote in the European Union. It went to the vote in the Justice and Home Affairs Council, where Estonia voted in favour of redistributing refugees. Visegrád countries voted against. Therefore, we did not vote in favour of voluntary participation. Would you mind commenting on that? It was the policy of the previous government bucket and the Reform Party, but you will continue the same line. We are talking about preventing asylum seekers and other refugees from drowning in the Mediterranean Sea. In fact, 50,000 people out of 60 million are like a drop in the Pacific Ocean, and it doesn't help a single shot. On the contrary, it is increasingly encouraging the trafficking of human beings from North Africa beyond the Saharan desert and also from the Middle East. People go from there to Europe and make their way to refugee camps because of trafficking in human beings. We are totally voluntarily importing them into the European Union. Of course, we have neighbouring countries who, when paraphrased by the classic Jürgen Ligi, behave in a debilitating manner. Sweden voluntarily accepts 8700 people, while the bombs explode in Malmö and Stockholm subway stations. But they're playing solidarity! What is this solidarity at last? Is it because someone who's not white and whose name is not Nilsson or Svensson has planted a bomb? What is solidarity at last? I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U85	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U86	Let me remind you of something. Given our economy and our population, Estonia was the sixth contributor to the Mediterranean operations conducted by Frontex in 2015. We were the sixth country! Hungary has paid hundreds of millions of euros to protect its borders by preventing illegal migration to the European Union. And no one recognizes it! Have you ever said to your Hungarian colleague Orbán: 'Tublid men, you did well! You invested hundreds of millions of euros of Hungarian taxpayers' money to protect your border. You did what Italy does not do, which Spain does not do. '? Just yesterday morning, news came about how more than 800 people from Morocco and other parts of North Africa invaded Spain with a fence over six metres high and attacked police officers. But that's what we accept! We accept that 22,900 illegal migrants came to Spain last year. We accept that Italy let more than 100,000 people enter the country last year, who are also heading elsewhere in the European Union. But we are not saying that, Hungary and Poland, you did well! It is good that you continue to pursue the policy of sovereignty! You said it yourself. Sovereignty is the most important thing. But what is this sovereignty at last? Whether we accept the compulsory quota system or say that solidarity is also the case if we support refugee camps with Estonian taxpayers' money so that the children of refugees can eat, receive school education and can return home when the war is over. That's what's happening in Syria. Most of the areas have been recaptured from the ISIS, that's a fact. Will we soon take to the table of the government the question that we are now doing to those Syrian families who have been admitted to Estonia and whose home area is becoming calm? Will we have this question on the agenda so that these people can return soon and we should not deal with concerns about how to teach them the Estonian language, how to explain to them that we are going to the beach in bikini or swimsuit during the summer, or that we are eating pork? We expect a longer action plan from you. I agree that these 80 people are coming here, and they're probably going here. That's very nice, because none of them want to come here, and that's something I'm actually kind of happy about. But we're not going to think ahead. This problem has not been solved, our border is leaking like a bucket of sewers, and we can't hold it. We do not know whether, in six months or two years' time, the question of whether we will voluntarily divide 50,000 people among ourselves will have to be discussed again. In our neighbouring countries, there are crazies who say: 'Of course, we accept more! ' Finally, I will make a good quote from a representative of the United Nations in Sweden. This is a Danish lady who was so happy to announce in 2015: 'It's a calle! " My face was shining in my head, and it's great what we can do! In such an infantile European Union, where many have lost all logic, Estonia would need to set an example and say: 'You know, let us reason! Let us support the refugees in their homeland and in their refugee camps, but let us not encourage trafficking in human beings. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U87	For the sake of the stenogram: it's a callenge is in Estonian 'it is a challenge'. In 300 years, perhaps no one will speak English in Estonia, but everything must be understood. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U88	I don't know if I was announced, but I came anyway. President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U89	I made it clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U90	I heard that callenge talk. I thought it was the spacecraft. Ladies and gentlemen, and another minister in the back row, the Minister for Culture, who has to answer the next question. This is not going to get off the agenda. We have squealed-up liberals and blind people and unthinkable people here: 'We do not have immigrants. There are no refugees! Where are they? Only we get scared all the time! ' Of course it is! Walk the streets of Tallinn! Every once in a while, someone who clearly recognizes that he is not a native here. It's possible to identify very clearly. If you point that out, of course, you're a racist because we live in an orwelllike world where everything is normal and vice versa. But I would like to draw attention to some other aspects. We're a very small nation. And even if we abandon the Far East, the Middle East and Africa voluntarily resettled migrants, we have thousands of people coming here every year from the ex-Soviet expanse. They're also migrants. Yes, they are not war refugees and do not receive grants for refugees, but they still reduce the percentage of Estonians and the use of Estonian in our native country. What kind of language do you think people from somewhere else in the world will use here? Not the Estonian language. Rather, the Russian language of the great world language, especially if they get into an environment that is not Estonian as a labour force. This, too, is an aspect that needs to be addressed, not only to talk about how few of them are here or how non-existent they are here. And also: solidarity is a central issue. Estonia lives in conditions of chronic solidarity disabilities. We can lie to ourselves standing in front of a mirror that's not the case. But it is! If we now accept that we voluntarily, as has been said in the old days, accept some sort of portion of refugees - 80 people - this time, that will be the case. One day, no more consent will be requested, but this time your portion will be 800, but next time it will be 8,000. Look at the way the Mediterranean is floating on the other side of the sea! There are now a million people waiting to enter Europe. It seems to me that helping to smuggle people is one of the main tasks of today in the corrupt European Union, where we show incredibly stupid solidarity. Let us not show solidarity with human traffickers, decadent degenerate countries that refuse to guard their borders and demand that we contribute financially and otherwise to transport the same victims of human trafficking, some percentage of whom is drowning in the Mediterranean, to Europe. Hey, this isn't a wholesome approach! It is not openness; it is not solidarity; it is not human rights. This is stupid! It's stupid, and it's the most frustrating lying to your own people, cheating on your own people, manipulating your own people. And it must not be dealt with by the government of any sovereign state. Now for solidarity. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U91	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U92	Those countries that we can really count on in distress, in particular Poland, for whom we are a canary in a mine, a pre-warning system in terms of security, have actually made an incredible heroic act. Above all, Hungary has committed a heroic act, which built a fence and shut down the flow of migrants to Eastern Europe and beyond. They have done so even though they have been taunted. Orbán is, oh, my God, next to Putin, I can't say, some kind of pocket-finger, just like Donald Trump. Putin is still an incredibly powerful brother in all the elections manipulating skilfully, and anyone who doesn't like liberals turns them into puppets. Well, a mighty man! It's like taking a sane approach to this issue. Hungary and Poland are the countries with which we must stick together. But okay, that's not the subject today. And now, about solidarity, about independence, about sovereignty, straight back, about nationalism, about listening to the views of your people. There's no need to go far. Let's go to Latvia and come back with a bottle of beer. Let's go to Latvia and see what's going on! It's a country with a backbone. There are politicians who listen to their people. Latvia did not vote on Jerusalem as the Junckers and Merkels wanted, but voted as it felt it was right. Latvia refused to accept forced immigrants voluntarily because the Latvian government listened to its people. But we don't listen to our people, and one day it's gonna take a painful revenge. All this lying, all this lying about turning the truth into a lie that we have here is gonna pay off someday. Don't do it! You're finally hurting yourself, and you're hurting your people with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U93	Igor Gräzin. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U94	Let's start with the fact that we're talking about 40 people a year. Really, if you think of it that way, it's a plus or minus 40 thing. Indeed! But I'd say it's actually a big deal, and for what. First of all, the Prime Minister was right: his colleagues have not threatened countries that do not accept quota refugees. This has been done by Jean-Claude Juncker and, frankly, it is ten times worse. But for all the problems, no matter how they are hidden, no matter how twisted, no matter how lied, this famous Freudist observation is that you can understand what was really meant by language. By accident, by speaking quickly, and not too much, you're gonna talk about what you're really thinking and what you're trying to hide. In all this discussion in our country, the word that accidentally slipped out is 'integration'. How? But as it has been said, in the case of the thousands who first had to come and who didn't come, or now in the case of those 40, we have to make an effort to what? just to integrate. Hello! What for? Why does the Syrian need sauerkraut, pork, and Estonian in Syria, where does he have to go back when we are dealing with a war refugee? It's never meant to be. It's not about bringing war refugees here, it's about bringing migrants here. And we don't know who. Maybe as a labour force, but it's a very short-term perspective. It has already been said here that Europe is thinking, but it is very difficult to understand how it thinks. In fact, we do not know very well what directly caused this wave of migrants to call them. In fact, Italy and Greece smuggled people in. Those who have been present have also seen how it works, especially in Greece. You don't hide that much. Go to the beach, see what's going on! What, though, was the special thing that pulled this thing off? I don't know. But the fact is, one of the factors that caused this was the appeal of German Chancellor Angela Merkel, 'Come all you want to come!' ', and he didn't think about what it really meant. When America once called for immigrants, he knew that they had land, had resources, there was a need for labour. What was Merkel's idea, I don't know. But the fact is, the bull has started since Merkel said so. Therefore, this is not a European policy; it is perhaps not a German policy either; it is none of our business; it is Merkel's policy. Motives are his. But the appeal is clear: all those in the Middle East who want, all Muslims, all North Africans, all those who have any foot and a mouth, come to Germany! And now we're in a weird situation again. One of the most important issues, for example, was not addressed today by the Prime Minister. What are the measures planned by the Estonian Government to help the 40 people who come here as a matter of urgency to go to Germany? Germany wants them, they want to go to Germany, but they've accidentally gotten here. It is as if we are not concerned that these people are happy that the Germans are happy: the Germans catch them and they get to the land of their dreams. Is it not the historic mission of a small country to act as a bona fide benevolent mediator? I think this idea needs to be worked out. As far as sovereignty is concerned, as one of the two authors of the Declaration of Sovereignty, I repeat: the most important feature of sovereignty is the highest power over its territory. That's what it's defined and that's how it is. To be honest, I'll say Jean Bodin said it first. He lived around d'Artagnan and three Musketeers in times, a very wise man. Member of the Paris City Council Council, by the way. That was the kind of thing back then. But at the moment that Italy, Spain and many other countries opened their borders, they were no longer sovereign in our sense. The concept of their sovereignty was different. A country with open borders, which is a "full country," cannot exist. This problem is very tragic in Palestine, where the problem is that it is not possible to close the border entirely. The way we view our territory must not depend on how the Germans view their territory. They have their own territory, and they can do whatever they want. Our territory is here. What was decided on 16 November 1988 has not been changed by anyone. Border guard does not mean wire barricade or ditch, or what is now being built there in the area around Petseri. It's not about the ditch and the wire, it's about legal. This also means border control at Tallinn airport, i.e. legal or illegal attempts to cross the border. This also means being in Estonia with a foreign passport. The border is everywhere. The border means the country. And in that sense, it's not really just 40 people, it's 40 borderbreakers who come here against their will. They don't want to break our border, they want to go to Germany. Islamicists have won Estonia. The question now is whether we will win Estonia back. The Islamists have achieved that we are in a bit of a quarrel with each other in our own country and that we are having a lot of trouble with some in the European Union. The Islamists have achieved that Estonia is at war with countries that have been meat from our flesh throughout history, blood from our blood, who have been the bravest defenders of European culture. We're not with them today. I think it's a victory for Islamists. Now we have to decide whether we will accept this or whether we will win on our own land and elsewhere in the interests of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U95	The negotiations are coming to an end. The Prime Minister shall exercise his right to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U96	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! The inquiry was about migration policy and Estonia's participation in the whole process. In such negotiations, the elected ambassadors of the highest authority of Estonia, or people, have still expressed their views in this chair of the Riigikogu. After all, this is the point of your home and working arrangements: whether it is a bill or an inquiry, the round of negotiations is always the most important. This is where they say their political positions. In this respect, I sincerely believe that the EKRE Group deserves recognition for raising this issue. In any case, there is a need to discuss the clarity of the matter. I'll say a few more things from my side. Estonia has always wanted to belong to Europe. We see today that the economic performance of the European Union is quite good: growth, employment. Unemployment has been the lowest in recent years. All of this actually shows that the value that the European Union is creating without internal borders is important. We can see that Europe is moving forward by more cooperation in the area of security, as well as in the economic, social and educational fields. Let Erasmus+ be an example. I think it is an alliance in which Estonia, as an independent, sovereign republic, must belong. I really do not support a Europe around which a border would be built, as Igor Gräzin, a good member of the Riigikogu, described here. At the same time, I don't think it was his idea, but a lot of people think that if there's a limit, then all right, I don't know, big ditches or big fences. I really do not think that Europe should be like this. There are four fair freedoms in Europe that are very important. We have always said that there could also be the fifth, which is digital freedom, the free movement of data. But it is precisely these values that Europe actually holds. The greatest goal in creating the European Union was for us to have peace, and the European Union has ensured peace. And it's a very, very big difference these days that we're not in combat. Now for foreign policy. Some speakers said that Estonia has missed a lot here. I think that our active foreign policy communication over the past year is commendable. It is true, on the one hand, that this has come from our Presidency, but we have also been in close contact with the United States, for example. There have been so many bilateral appointments, be it a speaker, be it the Vice-President of the United States of America, and these meetings have taken place here in Estonia last year. Three Baltic presidents will be prepared to meet with the President of the United States. I think it's all very important. Estonia is actually very active in foreign policy. To say that Estonia has completely misplaced its foreign policy, I am sorry, but I think that is certainly not the case. Estonia has maintained a solid line within the European Union, but we have also made a very important foreign policy outside the European Union, be it the Eastern Partnership, be it the US, etc. The Prime Minister of Japan will come to Estonia for the first time on Friday of this week. This is also foreign policy, economic policy. So, in my opinion, this is a groundless statement that Estonia has been holding the wrong course in foreign policy. I say once again that we have once been a country, it had said during the previous government that we would receive 550 people. Today, I've read these figures to you. If all the latest responses to applications are positive, then this number will be 305 by the end of 2019, not 550. But once again, thank you for raising this issue, for asking for this debate, for this political debate. I think that everyone's views were much clearer for those listening to the debate, and that is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U97	Dear Igor Gräzin! Our rules are that, before the negotiations are concluded, only the Minister will have the opportunity to speak, but nevertheless I will give you the floor, because your name really did sound.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U98	Got it! I understand that we are actively pursuing foreign policy, but wrong. However, I want to clarify something else. I specifically emphasised that the border is not a ditches or a barbed wire, that is not exactly what it is! Only the boundary is a political and spiritual concept. That's the difference in substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U99	Question No 408 has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U100	The third item is the inquiry submitted on 4 December 2017 by the members of the Riigikogu, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel and Ain Lutsepa concerning the positions of the Minister of Culture in the development of the Narva Museum of the state-owned foundation. Krista Aru, representative of the speakers of the stand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U101	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister of Culture! Good people's representatives! We go from foreign policy to internal policy, but good foreign policy begins with good internal policy, good internal culture and the overall cultural awareness of the country. Culture is one of the cornerstones of our foreign policy. More specifically, however, the inquiry submitted on 4 December by the members of the Estonian Free Party to the Minister of Culture Indrek Saare concerns one of our cities, again Narva. I hope that we will not have a very heated and controversial debate today, we will rather try to focus on these specific issues. The Narva Museum was changed to the Narva Museum some time ago. It was part of the reform of museums that affected the Ministry of Culture and also the wider public. Many former county museums, whose main task was to maintain their county identity, study and make materials available, were transformed into foundations in cooperation with the state and local authorities. I remember very well all the debates and debates that took place years ago. One of the fears of museum workers at the time was precisely whether, because of such a change of form, museums would not get under too much pressure from local government politicians, and then they would be dependent on the will and mood of local politicians, on people's liking and dislike. Unfortunately, the SA Narva Museum is now one of the first sad examples that has raised a number of questions. The state has its representatives on the foundation board who have an overview of matters and should have a firm view of how the Museum of Narva Foundation should continue to operate, develop and maintain local identity and culture, also doing more and more educational work. It has now emerged there already in the summer of last year between local politicians and the management of the Narva Museum on the surface of liking, dislike, matching and non-suiting. Our questions, which are five, have been asked before the final contest for the election of the Chairman of the Board of the SA Narva Museum failed. These five questions focus in particular on how the State has ensured the protection of the interests of the state's cultural heritage at the Narva Museum SA, how the State, through its representatives, is able to carry out such tasks and why the Museum of SA Narva did not receive from the local government, the City of Narva, the amount fixed in the contract for the activities of the museum. Does the Ministry have reproach for the actual work of the museum, or does everything really go away with what is very sad to admit that this local identity holder has become a victim of dislike for local politicians, which should certainly not be the case with culture? So we expect answers from the Minister for Culture to our five questions. I hope you will also read the specific questions yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U102	Please, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U103	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! A beautiful continuing year this year! As Krista Aru said, so do I. I'll read the question and then I'll answer it. The first question: 'In 2012, when the Narva Museum was established in cooperation between the state and the city, the current Museum Act did not allow the transfer of museum funds to a private legal person. Thus, the Narva Museum, which owned all the cultural heritage funds, was initially retained as a legal entity. Although the new museum law has been in force since 2013, the city has not yet transferred funds to the foundation. There are also a number of bases that have not been transferred to the foundation, although this was to take place in accordance with that decision. We believe that this is a violation of targeted agreements by the city. What concrete steps has the State taken, through the Minister of Culture, to ensure that the Narva City Council put an end to the targeted violation of the 2012 agreement? ' Unfortunately, I have to agree with your opinion, and I am also very concerned that the city is deliberately violating agreements. The Ministry of Culture has dealt with the problem consistently and has taken several steps over the years. For example, in 2015, Narva Museum held a monitoring procedure for the museum collection, the results of which were communicated to the Narva Museum and Narva City Government. The summary of the results clearly stated that the city had to transfer to the museum collection foundation or that a contract for the use of the museum collection had to be concluded between the foundation and the city. Following monitoring, a complete inventory of the museum collection was carried out. The results of the inventory were submitted to the Narva City Government meeting on 21 October 2015, where Narva City Council received a referral for the liquidation of the Narva Museum as an institution and in this way for the resolution of the issue of transferring the museum collection. Before the whole transfer, it was necessary to exclude missing museums. The matter was discussed in the Narva City Council Committee on Culture between December 2015 and January 2016, but, unfortunately, it was finally decided that this issue would not be discussed at the council meeting. The list of all activities would, unfortunately, be too long, as the transfer of museum collections and basions and the resolution of the situation have been discussed several times at various meetings at the Narva Museum and its Council, as well as at the Ministry of Culture. Unfortunately, the city of Narva has not started to comply with the agreements, so I can only confirm that the Ministry of Culture will continue to work to ensure that the city keeps all the promises made and keeps the agreements. The second question you have asked: 'What has the Minister done to ensure that the City of Narva, the co-founder of the Narva Museum of Foundation, fulfils its obligations and honours the financing agreement with the State and stops financing the bullying of the museum? ' I am really very familiar with the situation at the SA Narva Museum and have been actively seeking a positive solution. I have repeatedly met the city's leaders, also expressed my frustration in writing and reminded the city of Narva that the arrangements are for execution. But as a representative of the state, I cannot make decisions on behalf of the local government. Local authorities have the freedom to decide, including the right to take incomprehensible and unjustified decisions in my opinion. I have repeatedly reminded the city of the need to comply with the agreement. If you wish, I can also provide the interviewees with a written overview of this. Question 3: "Does the Minister, as one of the founders and owners of the Museum of Narva SA, have substantive complaints about the activities of the museum, assessing the activity in the light of the principles laid down in the Museum Act? " There are no reproaches. The number of visitors to the museum is ca 70000 per year, exhibitions are held, educational programmes are held. Recently, a large monograph on the history of Kreenholm was presented. I acknowledge that, despite the tensions in relations with the founders, the museum has been able to successfully implement its daily activities plans. Surely it has not been easy. I would like to thank here very much all the staff of the museum who, in this situation, have done their job with full commitment. The audit carried out estimates that the funds have been used in a targeted way and that the Foundation's work has been well organised. The year-on-year project to renew the permanent exhibition and modernise the fortress is closer than ever to realising with the support of the European Union, and the main obstacle to this could be that the city of Narva does not comply with the agreements. Question 4: 'The State has three representatives on the Board of the SA Narva Museum. Have these representatives taken steps with sufficient clarity and specificity to ensure a working mood in the museum and to protect the working collective from unjustified complaints from the City Council of Narva (e.g. incorrect use of money, lack of research and excessive commercialism, etc.)? ' The Chairman of the Board of the Narva Museum Foundation is Vice Chancellor Tarvi Sits, responsible for the cultural heritage field of the Ministry of Culture, who has kept me informed of all activities. I have no doubt that both he and the other representatives of the country in the Council have done their best. Today, Tarva and I discussed again how to find the best solution in the long term so that the Narva Museum would develop and the working group would be assured of working peace and security. At the same time, we must inevitably admit that in 2017, and in particular in recent months, the Council has been actively discussing the possibility of getting out of the crisis, but the Council has practically been unable to work. Three representatives of the state have been energetic in the Council for the interests of the foundation; unfortunately, this cannot be said of all three cities. Unfortunately, in the case of equal representation, it is possible for one side to block all decisions or simply deal with stretching or throwing charges. In order to enable the Council to become operational again, the Chairman of the Council proposes, inter alia, the replacement of one representative of the city in the Council who has least complied with the obligations that the law imposes on a member of the Council. But this, of course, depends again on the local government, which makes its own decisions. Question 5: "What are the expectations and responsibilities of the Narva Museum of SA in the light of the government's Ida-Virumaa programme of action, and what are the Minister's proposals to the local government and Narva Museum to ensure that the Narva Museum collective has the necessary working spirit to develop the museum and carry out its substantive tasks? ' When the foundation was established, the State undertook to allocate EUR 100000 per year to the museum and this amount has increased steadily. The operating grant for 2017 was EUR 220327, and this year we have foreseen EUR 291641. This increase, almost EUR 71000, is going to be an increase in the salary of the employees of the Narva Museum, and they are worth it. But, of course, work peace can only come when the museum has chosen a leader and guaranteed confidence in the development of the institution, and the city starts to comply with the agreements. The city of Narva knows the position of the Ministry of Culture, and I very much hope that they will be prepared to abide by the agreements in the future. There are seven museums in Estonia, which are common foundations with local government. Cooperation in all but Narva works and works very well, I dare say. I think that the right thing to do is to manage together on such holidays, and that is what we are certainly working to do, because the Narva Museum also has a very important regional political role. But it can only perform this in the best possible way if there is synergy, where the local government participates in the response and sharing of the responsibilities that lead to the management of one museum. I must also point out that, if almost all such joint established foundations were previously state-owned museums, then the Narva Museum has been the other way around. The Narva Museum belonged to the city of Narva, the city of Narva alone financed it. When a decision was made to establish a joint foundation with the State, all the assets transferred to the foundation were transferred by the City of Narva. It was five properties and the contribution of the city of Narva was more than eight times higher than the State's contribution at that time. There was an agreement that next year the state's contribution will increase to EUR 100000. We have increased the state's contribution from year to year, but the operating grant for the City of Narva is still higher than the State's operating grant. Thanks for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U104	And now for the oral questions. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U105	Thank you, Mr Minister, for their concrete, clear and honest answers. My question is about your answers. You and the lawyers at the Ministry of Culture have also thought about the possibilities and analyzed what the state can still do through the Ministry, for example, to take over these cultural assets from the local government. These same bastions are property belonging to the Narva Museum. Does the country still have any opportunities, or should it be limited to reminders and other appeals?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U106	Firstly, I very much hope that, in the case of the Narva Museum, sooner or later, we will come to the ideal situation where a consensus has been found between the institutions on how the museum is managed and developed, how it will be contributed. I'm sure that's the best option. But having spent considerable energy on it, both museum employees and officials of the Ministry of Culture have spent it on finding a good solution in a difficult situation, we must increasingly consider the likelihood that option B or C should be implemented.To my knowledge, the law does not give the state any possibility unilaterally to take the museum's collection. According to the law, this is not possible in the Republic of Estonia. At the same time, I have realised to myself that if in the near future there is no solution to the issue of the leader and the City of Narva still fails to fulfil its financial obligations under the founding agreement, if some of the members of the Supervisory Board mentioned in the City of Narva want to block the work of the Council, then we must find legal options for some sort of solution. There are legal levers to how the museum can either be temporary or a little less temporary Of course, since budget design is a hundred percent decision by the City Council of Narva and I have also drawn attention to the proportion of the city in the budget, we must also take into account the possibility that the city of Narva's contribution will be significantly reduced or withdrawn altogether. In this case, the volume of activity must be reviewed or the state must find additional resources in an emergency. I hope that all these options are theoretical, however, and we do not have to go this way. For our part, we will certainly do our best to try to explain once again: keeping a museum in the best possible way is possible by working together and creating synergies. But, of course, I'm ready for a different development.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U107	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U108	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Having listened to all of this, I ask, just in case: is Narva the only place where there are problems with transferring museum funds and other assets to the foundation? Or is there a similar problem elsewhere in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U109	As far as I know, this problem is not on the agenda elsewhere. In my opinion, after the foundation was established, museum collections have always been formed within a reasonable period of time in accordance with the agreements concluded. As I have already said, cooperation in foundations where the state participates in cooperation with the local government has been very positive. It has always created some new quality and helped the local community to influence more in a good way and, on the other hand, to perceive better the opportunities that museums have. However, the exceptions confirm the rule, and this is true in the case at hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U110	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I also understand, as you said, that the city is breaking the deal. This situation is regrettable. But as for the background to this question, I was touched by an article on the North Coast, where Commissioner Jefimov, now known to me as Chairman of the City Council, said at the end of July that the minister had promised him Andres Toe to change as head of the museum by September and that there would be money. In the light of this accusation, tell us whether the city councillors of Narva are blackmailing the Minister of the Republic of Estonia! So what have these relationships been, and how do you expect to get out of this situation? This confrontation has been going on for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U112	I'm sure Mr. Jefimov is wrong in saying that. Such a promise has never been made by Indrek Saar. And as far as I know, since April 2015, Indrek Saar has been Minister of Culture, I assure you that the Minister of Culture has not made such a promise. Indeed, the city of Narva has told us at various talks that they believe that there are problems with managing the museum. I have answered this clearly and unambiguously: the term of office of the head of the museum ends at the end of 2017. It is customary for the Ministry of Culture to announce a competition in such cases. If the city's representatives agree, this competition must be conducted. It was also agreed in the Narva Museum Council that the competition would come. However, during the course of the competition it has become clear that it has also been difficult to reach a joint part in the understanding of which candidate is being sought, which all started much earlier and how to conduct the competition. Once again, I very much hope that the museum board will be able to do its job, so that all six members of the board will take full responsibility for it and realise that they are serving the museum as members of the board. But I cannot take decisions on behalf of the council members, nor can I replace the council members representing the city. Even so, I cannot decide for the City Council of Narva how to make budgetary decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U113	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your clear answers. The location of Narva and Narva Museum is unique: they are on the border of two countries. This results, on the one hand, in opportunities, but perhaps also in certain obstacles. Hence my logical question: how do you appreciate the cooperation of the museum with Russian Federation or Russian colleagues? There is also Alexander's church in Narva. Do you see any obstacles to this cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U115	Well, Alexander's church is completely different. In the case of Alexander's church, we are trying to find a general concept of what to do with this church. This is an undoubtedly important cultural heritage, but we have seen that the congregation cannot keep it. The Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church has so far based itself on the principle that each congregation is responsible for its own affairs. True, when the church was bankrupt and was able to buy it out, the management of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church came up with the idea, made a collection for the purchase of the building and found the other half of the necessary amount. The state put one side and the Lutheran church on the other side to buy out the church. It is now guaranteed that the tower of the Church of Narva Alexander can be used. There is also a congregation that can carry out its ministry, and there is a small exposure. But the volume of this building is very large. It has once been built with the knowledge that the Narva Kreenholm factory employs over 5,000 people, and a large part of them attend worship on Sundays. We know what happened to Kreenholm. In this form industry will probably never recover in Narva, at least in the next few years no one will see this perspective. So in the course of history, the perspective of this house has changed considerably. At one time in the early 1990's, the idea arose that the church could become a concert hall. This will require an investment of a minimum of 10 million, probably much more. And if we look at the forecasts that the Estonian Concert has made, it would actually be very difficult to fill such a large building with an audience. The organisation of a couple and thirty concerts per year would require the state to pay a lot of money: a minimum of EUR 100000 for pure concerts. This raises the question of why we do it right, if very little is expected to be fulfilled. To give a concert to an empty or almost empty hall, no one will ever want to. Therefore, it is not reasonable to plan the building only for a concert hall. We are looking for a function that this church could carry in the future. Ideas have been very exciting, some of them have spooked the local community. But when we look around the world, churches whose congregations no longer have abilities and interest have very different functions. What can be agreed on in this particular building and in our cultural space, I cannot say today. I'm sure the museum could play its part in decorating this building, but it makes sense to talk about it later. First of all, we need to learn what happens to managing and financing the museum. We can think of all kinds of things right now, but there's no agreement on managing the museum. It is also possible that this agreement must be put on hold for a while for those days where the desire to act together is greater than it has been recently.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U116	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U117	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I have two questions. One question is what expectations you have with regard to the future of the museum with regard to the Free Lava. But there is also such a question: can you appreciate how much the loss of the Narva Museum may be if the issue of managing the institution is put under the hat at all, as you said? This damage should, after all, be to some extent estimable. How big do you think it could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U118	So the question is choosing a leader? Well, in that case, what's to be assessed as harm at all? It is clear that we are doing everything we can, and I also believe that we can ensure that the museum collection is preserved, protected and preserved. The damage may rather be indirect. One thing is, as I mentioned, that if the city decides to give up its operating grant in the first place, the museum's budget will fall dramatically. State support is much lower. Our contribution this year is less than EUR 300000, the city's expected contribution is EUR 429000. Taking into account the EUR 70000 that was not allocated last year, the city's allocation this year should actually be almost half a million. It is clear that if subsidies are reduced, there will probably be some reduction in own revenues. If we need to ensure that the museum operates in a situation where the city is severely reducing its support and we need to take into account the need to cut down on the work of the museum. Then, of course, this damage may also consist in the museum having to reduce opening hours during the winter period, when it is not possible to earn very well. Maybe at all times the museum doesn't operate. The head of the museum Andres Product has already presented the C-scenario of saving costs in this case in two versions. That was when these financing problems started. Of course, this means that the museum will be less than that for a while. What is the damage to Estonian cultural heritage? It's hard to judge. That would be a very ungrateful prediction. Certainly, if the museum reduces its activities, the city's budget will also be reduced. Some people will not come to Narva and some services will not be consumed. I very much hope that the City Council, when considering its next decisions, will report that the city of Narva really needs a museum in terms of the economic environment and the whole living environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U119	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U120	Thank you. My question is not about the museum directly, but about Narva and Narva history at all. I went to the rebuilt Bastion Passage in Narva during the summer, where a museum was established, where it is possible to travel through various periods of history in the city of Narva. There is also an exposition that reflects the destruction and bombing of the city of Narva, the people then fled into the shadow of the bastion passage. The guide was a completely bleak Russian-speaking person who told us how fascist raiders bombed the city of Narva in total ruins during the Great Patriotic War, and people were then hidden in the Bastion Passage. Not a word was said about who actually destroyed the city of Narva, that they were not fascists but red eagles. Does the Ministry of Culture have an overview of what it is spoken about in Narva, and is there any way to stop providing completely obvious false data in addition to checking?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U121	I didn't see or know exactly how these things were. Of course, museum expositions and historical concepts give rise to conflicting opinions. I very much hope that museums in the administration of local government will also try to present the most balanced version of what our history has been. However, the Minister for Culture does not have the right to prescribe which programmes the city envisages in its museums and who will be paid there. You have the opportunity to turn to the city on this issue and make your proposals, just as you have also made proposals to the Minister of Culture about the repertoire of the theatres or about what could be written in the publication of the Foundation's Cultural Website or what songs-dancings should sound at our singing and dance parties. As you yourself said, you know very well that this is not a state-related museum. Please contact the administrator and owner of this exposure. As a member of the Riigikogu, you have all the possibilities under the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U122	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U123	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Good people's representatives! Thank you, Minister, for these honest answers. I want to wish us all a beautiful European Year of Cultural Heritage. I am very sorry that the first issue of the European Year of Cultural Heritage concerns such an important part of cultural heritage as the Narva Castle, the Narva Bastions, the Narva Museum as a whole. The city of Narva has owned and has a special meaning in Estonian cultural history today. It has always been one of these cities at different times, which clearly shows the diversity of Estonian cultural history. There are traces of Danes, Swedes, Russians, different occupation regimes in Narva. There it's all together. What we have been looking forward to from the Minister of Culture and will certainly continue to look forward to is the support of the entire state to the Narva Museum through the Ministry and Ministry. There has been a very good job, there have been very good people. Andres Toode, the late director, maybe he didn't like Narva City Council or the council as a person or maybe anyone else, but he certainly did his museum work from the heart and tried to do his best in organising educational programs, museum programs and exhibitions. Now we are, like, launching a new Ida-Virumaa Action Programme, thinking about creating a Free Lava Theatre Centre, building a house, building a national broadcasting studio. We must not allow the activities of the SA Narva Museum to be decided only by the local authorities. Then it's not like a public institution anymore. The state is a fully-fledged founding member of this foundation and the state is also a shareholder there. So state support should be stronger and clearer. Of course, we all recognise and recognise the rights and independence of local governments, but this cultural heritage, just as our entire culture, must be the link between us. Not only must all these assets created for generations be valued, but they must also be reminded, with a loud voice, of the local authorities, who tend to forget it. After all, this whole establishment of museum-related foundations and the role and rights of local governments were based on the assumption that they would work in the interests of their community that their museum would be the pride of the community. When the 100th anniversary year of the Republic of Estonia has begun, if not now, when the European Year of Cultural Heritage has begun, we should also stress the values of culture to local governments who tend to act at the level of political dislike and liking. We must defend these values with and without retreat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U124	Please! Minister, Andres Herkel also signaled a desire to participate in the negotiations. We will stick to the rule that the Minister will be able to speak when the main part of the negotiations is behind us. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to make the first comment to the Minister on the fact that, in the election of the head of the Estonian National Museum, you pushed through the Ministry's will with an iron grip. What is currently taking place at the Narva Museum is a very mediocre case and, in fact, it would be necessary for the state to establish itself. I hope that, on the basis of the legal possibilities you have referred to, you will still be ready for this. The question is whether the principles of Estonian statehood are respected or not. I am very sorry that there is no Mikhail Stalnukhin in the Chamber at the moment, who went a little upset in a previous debate on Narva's problems when I said that there was latent corruption in Narva. I must correct myself: this corruption is not latent, but at times it is public and very clear. This issue of the head of the museum, too, reminds us that, from the perspective of the Narva authorities, the solution is that our former colleague, Eldar Efendiev, member of the Centre Party, will be the director of the museum. Such a procedure, such pressure in Estonia, cannot be acceptable in my opinion. Indeed, the city has withdrawn from its duties and is not doing things the way it should be in our country. Now a little bit more of a situation in Narva. I've already managed to go there once in the year that started. I am still interested in the problem that opposition members of the Narva City Council have not even been appointed to the council committees, even though they have an inalienable right to do so. It is quite frankly to say what the Centre Party of their group's ping-line was in the meantime completely empty, now a gentleman is sitting there, should be ashamed. They should be ashamed of what's going on in Narva and of how the central party city authorities are organizing their activities and doing business there. One more observation. This has not only been referred to by the opposition of the Narva Council, but also by local journalists and other people with whom I have been in contact. It has been felt that, since the Centre Party came to power as Prime Minister Party in the country, public counter-working to the Estonian state has become a more acute problem due to the representatives of the Central Party in Ida-Virumaa than it was before. And there are some things that don't matter to the local authorities. Unfortunately, these include the Narva Museum and Estonian-language school education in Narva. Living in parallel worlds like this is not good for the Estonian state or for the power that Narva has taken such a very one-sided approach to doing its business. And finally. I think that the initiative of the President of the Republic to go to Narva for a month with his office can also, if well thought out, help as members of the Riigikogu. This could be an important initiative to enable this dialogue to be brought to a more sensible track than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U126	The representatives of the political groups have no more requests to speak. Mr. Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U127	I thank the members of the Riigikogu for their opinions and feedback. I do, however, consider it necessary to clarify Mr Herkel's speech or to remind him that the basic principles of the Republic of Estonia include the fact that the local government is free in the formulation of its decisions. And the Minister of Culture cannot tell them in advance how they shape their own budget. I understand you'd like me to declare a state of emergency and take power in Narva. Fortunately, the Minister of the Republic of Estonia cannot do this. I very much hope that we are moving in the direction of launching the dialogue that you have just spoken about. I hope that we are looking for this dialogue with maximum force, that in every case when we see a problem arising in Narva, we will try to reach a dialogue, the maximum common part, not to say that let the country first establish itself, let it build a tower of ivory and do its thing there without trying to reach agreement with the local government. That should be the principle that we always make the most of ourselves. There is, of course, a certain limit somewhere, which must at the moment be acknowledged that this time, at this point in time, there is not enough readiness for dialogue to take some time, it is necessary to look for these opportunities in the future and, initially, to ensure that these functions, which are important for the preservation of the museum collection, are met. And in this work, the Ministry of Culture is planning to do my best as Minister of Culture. To confirm also what Krista Aru referred to earlier, the state has increased the money allocated to the Narva Museum this year. This increase is more than 30% so that the work of the museum can work at an elementary level. But yes, we have not managed to find the kind of dialogue we have hoped for. And as I have assured you, I understand that it may not work in the near future. In that case, we are prepared to use the possibilities provided by law to ensure the functioning of the museum in such a way as to at least keep the museum collection well. If we can as well exhibit this whole thing, it's a question of our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U128	The debate on Question 401 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-08_U129	Immediately after the hammer strike, the free microphone will begin. That's not what you want. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for today's discussions and questions and answers. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 5.50 p.m.
