ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. The meeting of the 9th working week of the VIII has begun on Thursday. Let's start with birthday greetings. George Adams and Aivar Sõerd, congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]] But that's not all. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please, Enn Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U2	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over to you a draft which aims to impose three calendar months on small enterprises with a turnover of up to EUR 200 000 per year and a turnover of up to EUR 10 employees for a tax period of up to EUR 2 000 000 per year and up to EUR 10 per calendar month. The longer VAT tax period reduces the administrative burden on tax and Customs and small businesses, and improves their liquidity. Less red tape will allow both parties to focus on core activities. The amendment sends the message that the state is an equal partner and will do its utmost to enable entrepreneurship to develop. However, the situation of small businesses is becoming fairer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U3	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last few weeks, we have had a scandal about Estonia's internal and foreign policies on a very important subject, and more broadly our future and our future as a country and as a nation. You know very well what I'm talking about, I'm talking about the United Nations Global Pact on Migration, with which the enthusiasm for joining burns a certain group here in Estonia. The government is at a dead end, nothing could be decided. Since spring, the whole process has been secretly pushed through from Parliament and kept us as far away from it as possible. Now that there was nothing left for the socialists, the government was unable to push its will through, their chairman announced that we would give decision and debate to the highest authority of the state, the Riigikogu. But we all know that this statement that comes here, it is not a debate, it is not a decision, it is a clean farce and a marking of democracy, because we can decide anything here, it does nothing. The issue is so important that it must be put to a referendum and the Estonian Conservative People's Party makes this proposal here. The question is very simple: are you in favour of the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the UN Global Migration Pact? According to the Constitution, the highest power in the country is the Estonian people and let the Estonian people decide without anyone here taking any political games and other shameful steps. Let the people decide our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be more specific, just in case. Is this a bill or a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U6	This is a draft for a referendum on participation in the UN Global Migration Pact.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U7	Okay, I got it. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts, and we will process them in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. 77 delegates will take part in the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U8	The procedure for discussing the key national question 'How to shorten treatment queues' is briefly as follows: First, the presentation by Karmen Joller, doctor of the family doctor of the Estonian Family Doctors' Association, Kivimäe Family Doctor, for up to 15 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 15 minutes. A member of the board of the Viljandi Hospital Foundation, a psychiatrist Dr Katrin Kaarma's presentation for up to 15 minutes and questions-answers again for up to 15 minutes. Senior researcher of population and functional genomics, PhD Tõnu Esko, Deputy Director of the Estonian Genome Center, gave a presentation for up to 15 minutes, questions and answers for up to 15 minutes. Minister of Health and Labour Riina Sikkut's presentation for up to 20 minutes, questions and answers for up to 15 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu can submit up to two questions to the rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions have been answered, we will open negotiations and, at the request of the Social Democratic Party Group, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. We will come back to this subject and to this question in an indicative manner at 12.30 p.m. Honourable Riigikogu! I invite a speech chair from the board member of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, Doctor Karmen Joller of the Family Doctors' Centre of Kivimäe. There are up to 15 minutes for the presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good ambassadors! I am very pleased that I have been invited here today and that I can talk about the joys and concerns of family doctors. I understand the slides are visible. Yes, very good. I would like to start by saying that when a person decides to study as a doctor, it is a long and very difficult path. No doctor learns to do his job badly. Throughout this study, we are encouraged that our work is art, our work is dignity and our work is for the good of man. Once we have completed this ten - year study, many learn much longer, our goal is for a person to be good and happy. A doctor who has been able to help a person is satisfied with his work. Now, when it comes to the work of a family doctor, the family doctor sees a person very widely, always counting on where a person comes from, where he has been, where he is going, and where he is now. Besides studying a person's health, we ask him what about his loved ones, his work, and his life. It's called a holistic approach. We always try to look at man as a whole and to rely on man himself. The work of a family doctor is very thorough, but it is relatively time-saving for a person, because a lot of work I do before he arrives. Before a person comes into my office, I'm gonna open a digital story, look for data on him and see why he's been to us before. So I kind of know why he's coming. When a nurse receives a call and someone wants to check in with a doctor over the phone, she always tells you why she's coming. So I already know a little bit, I have a background. That's why when a person arrives, we get our stuff done relatively quickly, maybe in 20 minutes. A family doctor never has to wait for hours. Family doctors do a lot of things these days. In the old days, let's say, before the family medical system, we had general doctors. They gave me letters, wrote some research, blood tests, and that's it. As you can see, I also put some pictures up here. Our work can be very simple, i.e. sometimes we only measure blood pressure, but it can also be much more complicated, we even operate. We do a lot of things. Sometimes a person thinks he needs to get to a specialist for help, but in fact, a lot of problems can be solved at a family doctor's center familiar at home. Often people are very happy about it. In fact, when you have good contact with a family doctor who knows his work and is able to do it, people are very happy with it. Family doctor and family nurse are top specialists in their field. We're not just random medical or nursing graduates. We're top specialists. We know exactly what we're doing, and we know how to be the most useful to man. I will simply give small examples of how chronic and acute diseases are handled in the ER and how the family doctor's centre, what is the difference in level. I've also worked as a doctor in the ER. EMO doctors are excellent specialists, they're very smart, I always admire them and their skills, but their specialty is quite different. They are to save a person's life and prevent a person's health from deteriorating. The family doctor, however, creates a health foundation, helps to prevent problems. Once a man's life is saved, we're the ones who put the house back together, they're gonna build what's broken down. We help to maintain and maintain a person's health. Moreover, prevention is always cheaper and more sustainable, both for man and for the country. For example, I know people who've been to the ER to rinse their ears. It's what a family nurse does with us, but in the E.R., it's an ear doctor. What differences in resources, which price differences. Our great concern is that we cannot provide quality services because our lists have become too large. In fact, maybe it hasn't grown, it's been about ten to fifteen years, more or less the same size, but our population is ageing. We are also taking on more and more assignments. Science is evolving, our opportunities are evolving, we are learning more. Today, family doctors can do ultrasounds, X - ray examinations, for example. Like I said, we're even operating. We're monitoring pregnancies, basically we've learned how to accept births. We're specialists in a very wide range of disciplines. We can provide a certain level of very good and high quality assistance to almost every profession. But we will not be able to do so if we do not have time to deepen the human problem because the queue is at the door and the patient does not reach us at the right time because the doctor has too many people on the list. I, for example, have 2,200 patients, and our family doctors estimate that the standard is 1,600. That means 600 people are actually harder for me to do. And I feel bad, too, because I'm repeatedly discovering how I've just forgotten about some patients. I'll run tests and tests, but then it turns out they're stuck somewhere, the person hasn't come back, or so on. This is where we end up with software. Last Monday, I had a case like this: I discovered that a week ago we had done a blood test on a patient that revealed very high levels of inflammation. This patient should have been sent on for at least two days, but he should have either received antibiotic treatment or had his condition assessed more precisely, perhaps he should have been sent to the ER, but I did not discover it until a week later. This happened because our computer program had painted this analysis yellow rather than red, and the sister, who had very little time to evaluate the analysis, did not notice it. So for a week, this person was at home, and only when he came back to the doctor's office, he had a time written down, we sent him directly to the ER because we no longer had the opportunity to do any further research. We were afraid that a person would feel worse very quickly. This is one example. Our work is comprehensive and there are many things that need to be taken into account, which is why we need time and good tools to do this work well. We have been trying to ask the country to be able to work with fewer people, but with better quality. There are currently about 800 family doctors in Estonia. In the long run, it is important to assess how much more doctors and even very good nurses need to be trained. We'd like more opportunities to study patients. At the moment, the funding is that I have a certain fund within which I can do research, but if it runs out, for example, in my large list, this fund will run out at some point, then I will be forced to refer a person to a specialist for some kind of study. In the order of the specialist, however, a person waits two months, then waits a month in the order of the study, and then goes back to the specialist, finally comes to me. If we had even a little more opportunities to explore, it would be both time and money savings. We definitely need more support staff. An assistant would be needed to help control and manage the practice, or to invite a plumber if necessary. Right now, we're doing all this ourselves. As a family doctor, for example, I am forced to monitor whether my computer software is up to date and secure. This is a legal obligation, and I also have no resources to place this task on anyone else. Mentoring system. It's the kind of system where family doctors start to support each other. Its foundations are already in place and hopefully it will be operational soon. Similarly, a health centre project has taken place to ensure that the family doctor is not left alone and that he or she has the opportunity to be at home sick or, if necessary, be at home with the child. I know a colleague who came to work next to a three-month-old kid because he didn't have a replacement. I wouldn't imagine such a situation. If you come back to our software again, it could be something that will help us make decisions. Now, the plan is to create a decision-making support, but the software it's supposed to attract is from 1997. There's been a new software, but it's almost as bad. In fact, perhaps this family doctor software is not so important, as is the overall common IT system, where people themselves, such as patients, would be involved. It might be that if I take the blood pressure medicine that's been prescribed for me, I'll be informed on my computer: 'Karmen, according to our calculations, you'll have a week left on your medication. Would you like to order a new prescription? ' I agree, I click on the computer, and then I get a new amount of blood pressure medicine, i.e. a message about it goes where it's needed. Similarly, the computer tells me, 'Oh, Karmen, you haven't been to your family doctor for almost a year, you need to do blood tests and EKG. Would you like to make an appointment? 'Click 'of course' and then go to the family doctor's office, it's a speech, a chat or an e-mail, it's gotta be modern. We need to be able to use this system as we use banking services, for example. For example, if I go to the store and I find out that the card I usually pay with is still at home, but I have another card that I don't keep money on, then I can make sure that with a few pinches I have the money on the map in a little while. In the same way, people must have access to their health records, medicines and communication with a doctor or family doctor. It saves both our time and human time and creates the opportunity for a person to be healthy. As you can see, I put a slide like this here. I'm not going to talk about this any further, but I'm saying that we've calculated with the family doctors that if the doctor has a chance to talk to the patient for five more minutes instead of surfing the computer, it saves an average of 4.5 million euros a year. If you will ever be able to decide on this, please have a single, decent, modern and normal software. So we're all your big friends. I would like to stress, in the light of the EMO issue, that no matter how good, smart and good the family doctor is, the patient still goes where he is more comfortable to go. I work in practice, which has been the highest level practice for years, but my patients are also going to the ER. Really, it's because someone wanted to see you at, like, 10:00, but my reception started at 12:00. But if he goes to the ER, he won't get to the doctor until 4:00, maybe even 5:00. The patient does not always know how to assess his or her own health. That's why we need to create a system that will help him decide where he can get help. The ER doctor is not a family doctor, that's what I've been talking about. The objective and task of an ER doctor is to keep a person alive and as healthy as possible, but he is then dealt with by a family doctor. At the moment, however, there are also a lot of patients in the ER who can be dealt with by a family doctor, but who do not know how to deal with an ER doctor. And the ER doctors are very frustrated about it. The World Bank estimates, for example, that there are about a third of patients who can be treated by a family doctor at a cardiologist's appointment. Neurosurgeons themselves say that three quarters of their patients are there to study gymnastics. Actually, you don't need a neurosurgeon, you'd rather have a physical therapist, maybe a family nurse. If we create a solid foundation for the family medical system and we can keep patients where they need to be, specialized medicine will also become more accessible. This reduces the number of specialist doctors and doctors feel better because they have time to devote themselves to treating the patient, to what they have learned, and they do not have to work that is not appropriate for them. A very good system, an e-consultation, has already started. This is the kind of system where a family doctor describes the patient very thoroughly for a specialist. We'll send out the documents and the specialist will look: aha, it's such a patient, I'll give the family doctor some advice and send the information back. Me, the family doctor gets smarter and the patient gets specialist advice and help so he doesn't have to go anywhere. My patients have been pleased with this. Or maybe the specialist's looking at that, uh-oh, the situation is bad. The patient is called, for example, to be invited to a reception within five days of registration through today's standard registration desk. I've just been told by a patient that he wants to see a neurosurgeon. However, we do not yet have an e-consultation system with neurosurgeons. So I pointed him out. After I asked you if you had time. He said, "No, I know I have to call again on December 6th, and then maybe I can. The next option is January 6th. " So, in fact, the line for a neurosurgeon is even longer, because we do not know yet how many people are trying to get an appointment after December 6. Certainly, the referral to the EMD should be preceded by a selection that could be made very freely by a family doctor, a family nurse, why not also by a 1220 helpline. My family doctors and I believe that it is not a very good solution to keep family medicine centres open any longer, which requires additional staff and additional funding. If anyone else has any questions later, if I leave this remote control, they can send me an e-mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U10	Dr. Joller, we are optimisticly grateful for a safe, yet realistic, report! Really, get sick or get sick to be your patient.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U11	Don't do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U12	The length of the round of questions is 15 minutes. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U13	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thanks for the presentation. I want to ask you about the last topic, family doctors' appointments. Why aren't we thinking more? For example, family doctor centers could also be open on Saturdays, because we can also get a lot of services in Estonia on Saturdays, even for a higher visit fee or for some more private contribution. This would certainly help to resolve the problem of the order of treatment of a specialist. I myself have positive experience, but in my neighborhood, a lot of people have been giving crazy examples and saying that they have felt abandoned in this whole medical system. I don't think it's positive in terms of our whole society's attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U14	Absolutely agree. I think these people have run into a tired family doctor. We have a lot of tired family doctors, we're overloaded, we can't take a vacation, we're not allowed to be sick, because if I get sick, I don't have anyone to replace, and it tires me out. That's one reason why a family doctor can't always make the contribution he wants. Today, there are nearly 40 family doctors without a doctor, which means that we are missing 40 family doctors. The average age of family doctors is over 55, i.e. we are about to retire and are getting smaller. Fortunately, we have managed to keep the flag of family doctors high, so that young people have taken a much greater interest in our residency. This year, for the first time in the history of family medicine, it was necessary to increase the number of residences. I hope this trend continues. Why can't family doctor centers be open on Saturdays? First of all, we don't have personnel. Secondly, it requires not only the presence of a family doctor, but also a family nurse, ultrasound, X-ray, lab, plus ultrasound technician, lab technician, x-ray technician, etc. There is not only one small room where the doctor sits with two bare hands. We still need a little more diagnostics and research. I'm afraid it'll be as expensive or more expensive if we start to keep the family doctor centers open longer. But why not have a paid general medical appointment somewhere in a bigger town? In fact, there is currently an emergency clinic in Tallinn where a person can turn from 8 to 20, including on weekends, and prices are quite reasonable there. Who really wants a comfort service, in the sense that he would certainly like to give a blood test, for example, even though the doctor has said that it is not necessary to do so, but in order to calm his heart, the person still wants to do it, it can go to the lab now and have a pay-per-view analysis done. Here we should really talk about the responsibility that if a person wants comfort services, not medical services, he should pay for it himself. The Norwegian system, for example, is that the EMO is closed until 4:00 a.m. and only then can a person turn there when the family doctors have finished their work. Family doctor's work is generally planned, even emergency work at the family doctor's centre is planned. This means that if anything happens to a person, he will call the centre, make an appointment and go there exactly by then, get help quickly and wait for his results at home, not in the ER lounge. I don't know if I answered you, I guess it was a little scattered, but thanks for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U15	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U16	Thank you to the manager. Thank you very much to the waitress for the presentation. However, we are looking at the issue more broadly today, and I ask whether you think the family doctor should be an entrepreneur at all. He could just be a earner, then he'd have more time to heal. Now, if there are health centres that are practically a little bit near the old health centre, although there are no specialist doctors there, it would probably be a good thing if all the time taken by the family doctor to maintain his list, to maintain his rooms and structures went to purely treat him. There are so many things that have been done in the world, mostly that. And I'm gonna ask you more, because I can't ask you another question, is it ethical that a family doctor takes a salary in dividends, i.e. he takes a minimum salary, but a large dividend. After all, he eats the system where he gets the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U17	I'll start with the last question. Family doctor as an entrepreneur. In this sense, we are in a really difficult situation that the objective of entrepreneurship is to generate income and, if it is desired, to take dividends, among other things. In reality, however, our funding is very regulated and very transparent. A family doctor who takes dividends usually does this not at the expense of public money, but, for example, because he has participated in a research study, offered some kind of paid services that are part of the family doctor's field, etc. Basically, our cost model is set in such a way that it covers the necessary costs, but it does not provide us with higher revenues. And in fact, especially today, when this cost model has become beautiful and transparent, few family doctors take dividends. Like I said, it's more like an old bill. Being an entrepreneur or not? Entrepreneurship, of course, gives a certain degree of freedom, and it has been one of the most attractive things in the family doctor's work so far, say, which has also brought more young people to us. On the other hand, young people sometimes fear reporting and entrepreneurship. At present, it is possible to choose whether to be a subcontractor to an undertaking or a subcontractor to a single undertaking. Both forms are possible. When it comes to a health centre, it is a similar company, usually OÜ. In other cases, the health centre is also one OÜ, which includes several. In short, what should be the financing and entrepreneurship form of the health centre has not really been agreed with very precisely. We expect the state to have a more substantive definition of a health centre, not just a formal guideline, who and where to be. We would like to have an exact agreement on how the health centre works.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U18	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U19	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your interesting presentation. Since today's topic is how to shorten the order of treatment, I ask you how you feel about what this correlation really is. Is there a way that more money and treatment queues will shorten? We're talking about a specialist. How much money should be found to shorten the order of treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U20	Thank you. More money and shorter treatment queues are possible if this more money still goes to support the foundation. Now, when the sickness fund or, say, the medicine came with extra money, there was also a lot of responsibilities. After all, an ambulance came from the state budget into the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, etc. You gotta watch this money split up a little bit. It is precisely the primary level that should be strengthened in a very targeted way. The weakest aspect of our current medical system is the same family doctor. Here also examples were given of how a person is left alone; he has no help. We need to be good at making sure that the primary level to which a person turns is strong and of high quality. And like I said, about a third of the patients shouldn't be on the second level. Let's just say that if we can make it strong at a cheaper first level, then playing around money could definitely shorten the treatment sequence to some extent, but the first level doesn't carry it out if we don't have the strength. I agree that there should be more money in healthcare, but it should be with emphasis on the primary level.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I don't know if I feel wrong or not, but I get the impression from time to time that people want to see more doctors than get treatment. How do you have a shared work between family doctors and family nurses? Are and how much will these primary health centres contribute to this in the future? Do you think that people are seeing a doctor enough now, or would a family nurse be enough? How can these tasks be shared in such a way that people's expectations and will can be realized in a reasonable way?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U22	Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U23	Thank you. That's a good question. In fact, when I answer that question, I also answer why people turn to the EMO. The question is what a person wants, the second question is what a person needs, and the third question is what should he then receive with public money, with taxpayers' money. If a person wants a powerful facility with bells and whistles where, for example, he gets his ear washed very quickly, he can get it for his money. I don't mind. I remember when I published three brief cases on Facebook about my day-to-day work at the ER. One person complained about his last night's bum bite that itchy today, and he came to see me. It shocked people. Most of the time, no one can even imagine everything they turn to the E.R. It's the same with the family doctor. Of course they want to see a doctor. We've solved it in our center, so when a person comes to my list, I'm gonna tell him right now that we have sisters doing our main job. For example, I can't remember the last time I consulted a person with an acute illness, such as pneumonia or colds, coughing, otitis, all that our sisters do. I've always highlighted the positive side that basically a person in our center gets help from a family nurse on the same day. A person knows that if a family sister has questions or cannot handle herself, she will always have the opportunity to consult a doctor. We use Skype, of course, could be a safer option inside the software. The nurse can also call me and tell me that please, Karmen, come and see this patient for a moment. I'm gonna go check it out, answer my sister's question, and we're gonna decide the treatment together. Communication is called it. It is not at all a question of where to put the money or not. We have to educate people, we have to explain to them that a family nurse is also a high-level specialist. This is the way we have gone with the company, that we also try to highlight the family sisters well and show that they are very wise and good.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U24	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. We are proud of the progress made in several sectors in Estonia, such as e-state, e-solutions, etc. At the same time, as you said, IT software is obsolete throughout health care organisation and system, it is not up-to-date and cannot save time or money to be directed more to the patient. My question is: what is the state of play or the level of innovation in IT software? Will it be dealt with as obstacles? It is said that it is what should be preferable to develop software aimed at people that stands in the Estonian country.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U25	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U26	That's a good question, thank you! Imagine a puzzle, it's our old software. Then it is taken apart in pieces and put together differently. Now we have new software, but the picture is completely unclear. I searched our new software for ten minutes to open a patient story, then I gave up. I put it aside and said I wouldn't use it, but I'd rather use 20 years old software. It's a terrible situation, I'll be perfectly honest with you. We cannot be proud of our e-health, because it is not working now. Doctors work so hard. In order to get information from a person's digital history, I have to open about 50 or 60 documents, read them one by one and search for information. That's why people say, "Doctor's sitting, nose in the computer." I don't want it either. Sometimes I feel like I've had a man sitting on a chair for ten minutes, but I haven't even had time to look at him. This software is now a priority. The Ministry has come to our aid and has also offered one training called 'Targa Client Training' because we cannot tell the software developer what we want. When you come to the doctor, you also say I have a cough, not that I have pneumonia acuta or something. We now learn this Latin language of the IT world and how the software is created. We're learning to ask the developer the right things, but it also takes money, actually millions, I'd say five or ten million, not all at once, because at first we'd still need an analysis of what the situation is. In fact, we know more or less about this situation, but we need first and foremost to clarify what we need, then we can make prototypes and so on. Finally, maybe in a year we can start looking for developers. This is not only a problem for family doctors, but also a problem for specialist doctors. In itself, there could be more or less the same system throughout Estonia, on the basis of which the doctor looks at and deals with the patient. After all, we all have one foundation, just everyone could have their own module, cardiologist module, family doctor module, etc. That's my understanding. Plus, the patient can manage his own health. After all, it is his health that is the most precious asset that can't be purchased.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U27	Hardi Volmer will be able to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress, thank you! What I'm saying is, let's say, a delicate subject, which is humanly very understandable in its own right, is the decent income of a family doctor. I hear the situation is that the family doctor centers are insanely overcrowded, there are many patients, doctors are working hard and are on the verge of collapse. That's more or less what it looks like. At the same time, however, family doctors are told to use this tactic to close the booth at one point or leave the sister there for work and move on the same day to the private sector or, let's say, to private practice. Do you admit that, and is that a big problem? From the patient's point of view, that's a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U29	Thank you. I think doing extra work is one way to prevent burnout. For example, I'm standing here right now, aren't I? It's very important to me to try to fix things. Besides, a completely different activity allows me not to burn out on my very large list. Add-on. I can't even imagine how important this income is, I'm not familiar with this size. But I do know that many family doctors also work in the ER, for example, or as a work ability assessment doctor. This is mostly not because of income, but primarily because working in another place as a doctor gives you a much larger profile of seeing and picture. The fact that I worked in the ER for a year and a half gave me an enormous amount of knowledge and skills, as well as a broader understanding of what our medicine really needs and what family medical care could be like. Sometimes it's good to go out and come back. I think it's not about money, it's more because I can, I can and I want to provide quality help.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U30	Thank you very much, Dr. Joller. As you indicated in your presentation, you are also willing to answer questions that did not fit the time frame of our round of questions, so that this conversation and communication may continue during the consultation of the family doctor. Our ambassadors are freeway people, they can come to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U32	Thank you. The length of the presentation by Dr Katrin Kaarma, a member of the board of Viljandi Hospital, is also 15 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U33	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you, too, for your opportunity to introduce the development and piloting of the integrated service model in Viljandi Hospital. I will show you the mission of our Viljandi Hospital and we have formulated that we are trying to offer our patients comprehensive health care solutions. This means, in our opinion, that we do not offer all kinds of services, but we keep the patient in his service stream. We'll help him when he comes to our service, and we'll transfer him to the right place. Let me tell you a little bit about the origins of our model. I hope you can see something from here. Not really. But the main message is that the costs of specialist medical care are increasing exponentially at the end of our life cycle, at the top of it around the 70s and 80s, and are increasing especially because of the services provided to chronically ill patients. We know more or less exactly what these diseases and complications are, but we need to remember that when we talk about the order of treatment. The question is what is needed for this particular age group, i.e. which services should be provided to them. The starting point for our project was also what we ourselves know that a large part of our EMO visitors will be there with these same chronic diseases or their complications. These are mostly vascular diseases, chronic respiratory diseases, musculoskeletal disorders.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U34	I'm sorry! All members of the Riigikogu have the same material on the table, so you can see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U35	When preparing the presentation, I used the material on the website of the Health Insurance Fund, and from there we also took the comparative data. Compared to the year 2013 in 2017, this brighter rear post has significantly increased the costs of specialist medical care and shifted slightly, so this peak goes even further towards the end of the life cycle. It's mostly where we spend special medicine money. Secondly, we took the basic data from the World Bank's in-depth report, and Dr. Joller also spoke about it, which assessed treatment for chronic diseases and acute conditions, and looked at, among other things, optimal service provision and after-service provision. It was found very clearly that a large number of hospitalizations are avoidable and that some specialist visits are also avoidable. Another major point was that continued treatment after inpatient active therapy is often deficient, so that the service needs are growing and there is no optimal supply. This table right here should also reflect this. In fact, some chronic diseases are found to prevent hospitalisations in 80% of cases. So what do we do? We planned a service for our patients that could be provided under the conditions of an ageing population and limited resources, and in an optimal place where access would be easier and more manageable. There we also specify the choice of services. The key word is 'integrated', i.e. we would involve all service providers, each of whom would provide an important service at its level. This was done by organising a long project design involving interest groups and service providers. The analysis revealed that all counterparties or all of these stacks on this slide provide a very good service. The ambulance service is very good, the hospital service is very good, the primary level is excellent, but they do not communicate with each other. The patient, on the other hand, is relatively random to the different services. Sometimes a person has a very willing and good family physician who keeps watching his condition, but mostly, as Dr. Joller said, we are currently overwhelmed by family doctors. So this once-in-a-kind idea that the family physician is the goalkeeper, who directs and regulates services, is no longer working well. A very thorough service design model was developed. It was found that the person in greatest trouble is, let's say, Marta, who has chronic diseases, who doesn't have loved ones and who doesn't get to the service at the right time. Another important person who's always out of our analysis is Ülo. He's only gonna end up in the ER. He doesn't go to a family doctor, he doesn't take any medication, but sometimes he costs the E.R. It was now an idea to move them forward and to provide services that meet their needs. This is not exactly what I am going to stop on right now, but all these personalities of the service were developed with very thorough profiles. Why is that important? Although this does not seem to be very important, it is specific in health care, because we do not really find out where the patient lives, how many people he is close to, or how he is able to cope with at home when we usually offer somatic treatment. He is often written home from the hospital, and the epidemic is sent to a family doctor. But now we have a slightly different approach, where it really matters what the patient's own wishes are and what his background system is. The main idea of this whole project is that all service providers interact with each other on the IT platform, so that no one gets a lot of extra costs, but the hospital doctor makes his proposals on the type of service the patient needs, and the family doctor sees it. We also involve the patient's social worker. People with more social work are involved in the PAIK project network. The principle is that if in the past all service providers interacted with each other through the patient, i.e. the patient was given his/her analyses and he/she turned to the social worker himself, then the network communicates with each other cross-cross-wise, all of them. As this red arrow shows on this slide, the home nurse communicates with the patient's family and the patient's entire network is in the same information field. If the condition changes, every member of the network will know about it. The whole idea of the project is to develop good software, as well as, of course, to perceive the social needs of doctors. I'm a psychiatrist, and in our line of work, it's basic. For example, in child psychiatry, we cannot handle a patient at all unless we bring together a whole network of patients' parents, child protection workers, and teachers. Together it will be decided what happens next. A similar network we would now offer to our chronically ill who have a greater need for social work. So what would this patient get? He knows he's being dealt with. When a family doctor directs him to a specialist, the social worker will find out. If he has no transport, the social worker will try to arrange it. A social worker finds out when a patient is in hospital with a stroke and also knows when he is going home. He gets the notification so he can heat the oven and bring the food home. I think that if this worked well, we could be more secure because our parents often live separately in a remote area. All kinds of solutions have been offered to us, for example, so that those attending the patient can write down somewhere on the refrigerator door, when someone is coming, because it is often the case that there is a social worker first, there is a nurse coming on the same day, then no one comes for three weeks. The services are as if they are, but they are not well coordinated and we are not in each other's information fields. A social worker doesn't know what to expect, what to worry about with a patient. In order to further develop this whole thing, we have prepared to implement this model and create a new health centre, a hospital. However, we are not expecting a new house, but we are starting to create our new hospital within the very appropriate infrastructure, where there is not much flexibility in joint work. These, let's say, patient-based pilotings we're going through this year. We've got new ideas and ideas. Dr. Joller's report also inspired a lot, which made it very clear that we were keeping the patient where he must be. With this exchange of information, we would like to achieve just the fact that we keep the patient where he should be. If you ask why the hospital is doing this, I'll tell you that we're actually working against our motivation right now. We'd be happy if the patient came to the hospital, we get paid for bed days, and then we send him out again. But we've defined ourselves in Viljandi as a community health beacon that sounds beautifully, i.e. we'd try to help and find a way to manage things reasonably. As you have seen, in our own E.R. patients are similarly subject to chronic disease complications. Of course, now the unfortunate story has happened again that those who need to come to the ER will no longer dare to come. When they do, they say they're sorry that we read in the paper that we shouldn't come, but it was so sudden and so severe abdominal pain. In fact, we encourage the patients of our family doctors to say that if there is still an acute condition, they might come. Then our new hospital and health centre will be built in the centre of Viljandi, where we can be with our family doctors. For us, this would mean that not only are we in the same house as family doctors, but we could also offer our integrated service. To this end, we have announced an international competition for architecture. In summary, what are our principles? The service should have a single entry from the first contact immediately so that patients do not have to turn back from the registration office with concern, but will be noticed there. As I said in the case of chronic diseases, the need for social work is great, so we would use our IT-based integrated treatment model. We think the hospital is actually moving to the patient's home, with more and more small monitors, i.e. it's possible to track a person from a distance. We hope that patients will be able to fill out their home forms and prepare them in any way before they go to the hospital. Actually, the hospital doesn't have to be very big, the hospital is moving home. That's why we're not so stuck in this new house, and we're trying to create everything we're going to do in the old house. If you think of anything else, maybe we have too restrictive regulations in healthcare. We clearly have general hospitals, we have central hospitals, we have regional hospitals, they are allowed to do something and they are forbidden to do something, but we should become more flexible. In fact, there is little competence. Where there's some kind of competence, you should try using it. We have, for example, a very high percentage of psychiatry and we want to start providing the services of a psychogenic pain centre. We're looking for competence, so there's synergy. I would very much like the patient to be part of the treatment process. We're talking about patient-centred treatment, but actually we don't really ask the person himself what his goals are, what his plans are, whether he needs, I don't know, honey to whirl at this time, maybe he can't come. Such messages we have collected from patients so that medicine is not so paternalistic that it is not so medically focused. I fully agree that nurses carry a very large part of all health care.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U36	Dr Kaarma, thank you so much for your presentation. The time allocated to you is over, but I am not afraid to repeat myself: it is possible to continue this conversation with skillful questions. I'll give you a hint: did you miss something important? First, Monika Haukanõm asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for this presentation. I would give that opportunity priority. If you didn't say anything else about your report, I'm sure it's a good place to do it right now. Actually, I had a question. Estonian health care is often accused of being too inclined towards specialist medical care, i.e. not at primary level, but at specialist medical care. It should definitely be changed. In order for a primary family doctor to be better able to provide his/her services, to treat people, local authorities have a role to play when we see that the right person gets the right doctor at the right time. What do you think the role of the municipality is to attract family doctors to the scene? Health stations tend to take them farther away from people. Could one of the options be for us to start offering them more transport services. Now I've thrown ten different thoughts into the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U38	All thoughts are very okay. Once, when the family medical system was set up, I was at it myself. We turned to the municipalities to have family medicine self-governing, i.e. the municipality would take rent from them and arrange and help. This is a municipal matter, which are family doctors, and he should support them in every possible way. I think that's very reasonable. We have now been more in touch with the real social workers in our integration project. It's a little confusing right now. Personally, I have been through all the municipalities of Viljandi County and they are very interested in our project. I know it's on the phone right now and I have to explain things, but they're coming along very well. I haven't discussed the idea of a family doctor with them, but they'd really like to know more about health. They say that they are worried and do not know when the patient should be sent back and where he should be sent. I think that the social workers in local governments are very well prepared and ready to come along for the better management of this specialist medical care. First level is the most important thing, I can't say anything else, unfortunately. But maybe then I'll stick to the idea of what I didn't say. We don't speak exactly the same language with social workers. Healthcare is organised on a diagnostic basis. What a patient with schizophrenia, for example, can be very different, he can be very anxious, I'm stuck in a closed department, or he can be very psychotic. He can go to a very responsible job, be in remission. So the diagnosis group doesn't show anything. The doctoral staff should be able to assess the ability to cope at this point in time and we should speak the same language as social workers. And we also have information platforms that aren't communicating at all right now. The health information system, STAR and SKIAIS I've seen them in the last year is very clumsy and there's no way we can communicate with each other right now. We'd like this platform to be between them, so there's gonna be a button for everyone. If someone is in a PAIK project, for example, you can see that Ahah, so he has both health and social work needs. Let's see what they write about him in that network. This information can be obtained by both a social worker and a health care professional. I had a thought I didn't say before.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U39	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U40	Thank you. Dear waitress, I wanted to find out from a member of the board of Viljandi Hospital how you feel about what is the subject of today's debate, namely the treatment queues, but unfortunately I did not hear anything about that. But here's my question. A few weeks ago, the National Audit Office reported on how we work in hospitals with EMOs and the most interesting thing was that 56% of patients do not need urgent emergency intervention. We understand that there's a lot of money going on for E.R. patients, and it's connected to the whole system. I'd like to hear your opinion on why it happens that the 56% who could go to a family doctor go to the ER.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U41	With this model, we just wanted to show that if the patient is cared for and is able to continue to see a doctor, he does not have the kind of chronic exacerbations that he or she needs to go to the ER. We don't really expect patients in the ER. We'd be happy to see him in this network with a family doctor, his own specialist and a social worker, kept nicely, so he won't end up in the ER. I agree that too many of them are going to be there right now. But you can't tell the family doctors to do anything. As you've heard, we've calculated our family doctors' appointments, and we have an average of eight minutes on the patient. That's weird. What I think is that putting money in an ineffective system doesn't help. You could give more money to the Viljandi Hospital and tell them to hurry up, get more doctors, but it won't solve the system. You see, in fact, the costs are increasing, we have to put something back together. Our idea is that such general hospitals, I am not talking about Viljandi Hospital, but about the model of the general hospital, could be financed on a slightly different principle than for bedtime. Right now we are working against motivation because we are doing everything on the basis of a project, but for a very long time we cannot and will not be able to tell patients that we are trying to help you with social workers, so you should not come to the hospital. Then what do we do with our beds? The Health Insurance Fund has agreed that if we go a little further with our model, there will be a working group that will start to think about how to finance this joint action. We have also had a lot of contact with the Social Insurance Board, and they also think that their role or contribution could be to create this common platform. We still have pilotage at such an early stage that there are not very good names for everything, but the principles should be clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kaarma, thank you for your presentation, your review and your new thoughts. I'm asking you who you've been in medicine for a very long time, to see its different face and face. During the Soviet period, we had clinics, there were specialist doctors together, and then there were police doctors. Does the model of our health centre, which is now being piloted, take some advantage of the health centre or is it entirely based on modern needs, leaving all the good old times where it belonged?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U43	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U44	Thank you for your question. I believe that we will come like the model of a health clinic, I think it is very good, just different responsibilities. In the old days, there was no list of responsibilities that the family doctor now has. It's like he's the goalie who's supposed to direct and organize everything. I don't know what else to say. I think that in the case of Viljandi Hospital Medical Centre, we can see that specialist doctors and family doctors should work even more together, using offices together. Even when designing a hospital, we're meant to have shared human resources where they can communicate and discuss things. We'd like to see a parish representative at the hospital and have him there. So cooperation is probably the most important thing. If in the economy we go to the collaborative economy, why do we keep our silos so passionately in health care? I don't know, maybe it's wrong, but I think the clinic is a pretty good idea. Good health centres used to be very good health centres. I've been working at the Pelgulinna Outpatient Clinic, which was great. The Feldsher was triage ahead, the patient was moved forward, and everything was fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U45	Dr Kaarma, since we still have some time to reply, I remember that Mr Haukanõmme's question was with several questions and one part of it, namely the possibility of providing transport in the future of your sphere, was missed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U46	But it's a pretty organized thing. I understand the municipality's social transport has to be. That's one of the details of our model, that when a specialist calls the patient back, it's usually the case that the specialist says you're coming in at the time and the patient says yes-yes, but actually goes home and there he makes sure he can't go. Then the social worker immediately sees from our super platform that he should go to a specialist, but apparently he doesn't have any transport, and helps arrange it. It's very important. A lot of people don't buy drugs, they don't get back to a specialist. We have a wonderful community in Viljandi. The social worker told me that Harri hadn't gotten on the bus in two days, so you have to go see her. Harri lives somewhere in Soomaa, the family doctor put on his botties and went to investigate Harri. Maybe we're in a slightly different situation than the big cities where these things need to be resolved differently. But we are very much counting on the community to help reduce the cost of specialist medical care so that not all old people should go to the hospital all the time for very complicated services, especially at the end of their lives. Did that answer your question? Yes, transport is important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U47	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U48	Since I'm sitting here near Monika Haukanõmme, I'm going to specify her question. In fact, the question was, for example, transport, which is helping at night, such as taking someone to the ER at night. There are people who don't have the opportunity to order a taxi or a hospital very far away, but a taxi is very expensive if it ever gets off at night. The question is how do these people get home after public transport has finished their work? How does this transport work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U49	From a human point of view, this service could be provided by a hospital. If the ER isn't so full, then the patient doesn't necessarily have to be sent away at night, but situations are different. I imagine that this issue could be raised when we are discussing the financing model for general hospitals. There could be a resource coming from somewhere. As you know, in our health care, it costs 'every piece', the service includes the cost of every worn cotton swab. It's all done this way with ABC-costing. You could say it's very nice, we'd like to arrange a transport for you, but it doesn't work that easily. I still think the hospital could do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U50	Dr Kaarma, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers to many questions. We now hear a presentation by Dr Tõnu Esko, Deputy Director of the Estonian Genome Center, Senior Research Fellow in Population and Functional Genome. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U51	Hi! Good President of the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu and listeners! I'm very happy to stand here and talk to you. The focus of my presentation is on digital solutions in healthcare. As has been said, I am not a doctor of medicine, but a doctor of philosophy, or so the presentation is more philosophical and forward looking, to offer visions of how to go forward and improve systems. When you start from the very beginning and think about what health is, it could be a vessel that gets drunk at some point, that is, we get sick. What will contribute to this vessel's fulfillment? First of all, at the moment of our birth, there are genes. If we grow old or move forward in life, practicing different lifestyles, some of which are good and some bad, our cup will begin to come true until sickness occurs at one point. On this basis, there are a number of important components that should be monitored more systematically by the healthcare system. The good news is that none of you have only bad genes, but the bad news is that not everyone has only good genes. Perhaps each of you has something worth knowing and taking into account in order to live a healthier life. In any case, however, it is possible to monitor and monitor more systematically the lifestyle and the way in which we live. What is the actual situation now? As I said, I do not see patients every day, but while working in the Estonian Genome, I have a very good overview of the health of a large part of the Estonian population, because we have received a great deal of health information for 15 years. When the previous waitresses said that the data was as if they were in the silo towers, i.e. not connected, then in our institute, they all come together. When we think about what are the traditional risk factors for the disease and what suggests that in the future a person may have health problems. then the easiest way to take into account what kind of illness you have had in your family. At the same time, what kind of diseases you already have could indicate how your health goes on, whether you have an athletic lifestyle, what your diet is, whether you are watching whether you smoke, etc. One part, though not the most important part, is genes. If we think about all these risk factors, in the modern world, it is not only your doctor is unaware of the diseases in your family, but you too, very often, do not know this, because on Facebook you only share positive messages, not posting what kind of diseases you have. On the right-hand side of this slide is a figure where there is an Estonian population, for example, and then there is a typical sample where people actually vary from very bad to very good, so it represents a normal distribution. The property of this normal distribution is that there are very few extremes. Now, if we look at how the disease is prevented, today we're taking all the risk factors, counting how many there are. According to how many risk factors you have, you will be on this risk scale. If a family doctor or a professional finds that the risk has been exceeded, something will be done. That's exactly what happens to genes. In general, many, hundreds of thousands of genes, and the same way, if you have a lot of bad genes, you should go somewhere with a "blinker." As I said, we have a lot of data and we actually see how people's health and life path are going, what treatment decisions have been and how it depends on them what happens next. This picture is visible to us, but to a family doctor or specialist, it is actually just such a large collection of digital but still not very well read and analysed documents. It's actually a minus. A study was carried out in Australia a few years ago, looking at patients with heart attacks and trying to prevent another case. So what was done? Half of the people were using a standard monitoring and treatment model, but the computer just started sending a text message three times a week that supports and motivates them: did you eat an apple, did you walk outside, did you call the neighbor? Among those who received this message, the incidence was twice as low. Perhaps if we have data and they are integrated, it will ensure better health outcomes. Here's the message that, in fact, health data should all be machine-readable. We have a lot of things digital, but they're not automatically readable. We need smart algorithms. Dr. Joller here mentioned that there could be a system where all of our data, which is, will be counted and when something becomes critical, the red light will go on somewhere, and the doctor will be able to do something about it. Otherwise, this data should still be available for research so that we can develop new and better algorithms, new and better knowledge to do something about it. What could be the reality of tomorrow, how many of these data exist and are integrated? One example would be that about 5% of people, whether in Estonia or globally, actually have something in the genome, some mutation that increases their likelihood of disease up to 20 times. In fact, this risk group would also be detectable by looking at normal clinical data if they were machine-readable. One study we carried out in the Estonian Genome is that we looked at 5,000 people who have very deep genomic sequences. We called them back, we brought them in with a specialist. The disease studied was actually a family hypercholesterolaemia, just as cholesterol levels are very high, there is a very high risk of having a heart attack. What did we find? Of the 50 people in our study group, only one had a family doctor who had previously identified the symptoms of the disease. However, half of them were diagnosed with some dyslipidaemias. But it also turns out that actually only half of these parties, or 25%, followed the treatment. Following this treatment meant that they had been prescribed treatment. However, as we read in last week's newspaper, only 30% of people who have been prescribed a prescription actually take the medicine. Although cholesterol levels have all been measured either by an occupational doctor or by a family doctor, the data do not come together and nothing is done with them. In fact, a more systematic use of health data would be needed so that people with some higher health risks are not overlooked. It would also be necessary to carry out cascad research so that if someone is identified with some very bad mutation, such as a breast cancer mutation, a sudden death mutation, their family members and close relatives would know about it. We need to find people like that so they don't walk around, figuratively, a bomb in their pockets, not knowing when it's gonna explode. Secondly, medicines are very important. The drugs we're taking and we're getting prescribed. In general, the average person is taken with an average body weight, an average age and everyone has the same diagnosis and should be eligible for the same medicinal product. Moleculars, the drugs are actually something that our body is going to break down. But since molecules are still broken down by enzymes, enzymes come from genes, and genes are different, it means that the effect and effect of the drug can also be different. Here's the situation that if there's a cure that works, it doesn't really cause any side effects on the patients. However, there is also the possibility that the medicine will not work or be toxic, or that the patient will not be harmed, but it will still be a burden on our health insurance system. It may also be that the medicine does not work and is toxic, it is a particularly bad option, because then the patient will not benefit from it at all, he will rather be harmed because the medicine is toxic and has side effects. It may also be that the medicine works and is toxic, an example of which is many anticancer medicines, which then affect them. And that's the kind of information for which scientific knowledge is available, and if we have a digital recipe here, which, I understand, 99.99% of doctors use, the integration of such information is extremely important. It is also important that 92% of Estonians carry some mutation in their genome that determines the effect of one medicine or another. We can now say something about 28 different active substances based on genetic data. The third very important issue is screening. Breast cancer studies are best known, but prostate cancer screening is also being performed. The advantage of screening is that early detection of the disease ensures a better estimate and that early detection of the disease sometimes also makes it possible to avoid the development of the disease completely. The current lack of screening is that the percentage of participants is very low. Last year, about 50% of all invited women participated in breast cancer screening. The reason may also be that the motivation to participate in the study is very small, it is such a very general one, simply called by relatively random birth years. If we now look at the genetic data, because we have genetic data and human health data in 15 years, we can count which people have the most very bad genes and who have less. If we were now to take 5% of women with the most of these bad genes, there are thousands and thousands of them, then in fact their chances of developing breast cancer by the age of 60 are five times greater than that of the average woman in Estonia. And now, if you compare the average Estonian woman and those women who are in this high-risk group, their risk of developing breast cancer at the age of 40 is as high as the risk of developing breast cancer at the age of 60. There is also a proposal to make screening more efficient and to make better use of resources. Genetic information must also be integrated into screening, i.e. not just based on gender and age, but actually based on the information received. The same should be true of family history and so on. This is the kind of personalized disease prevention, smart screening and more efficient use of resources. On this final slide, I have some ideas about Estonia's digital solutions for health care and about Estonia's potential to be at the forefront and stand out in this world. We all know that our IT systems are secure and, in fact, the transfer of data between different databases is smooth. The only problem is that these data that move are not always available to all parties, they are not machine-readable, but that means that smart algorithms cannot use the information we collect effectively. That's what happens when a family doctor or a specialist doesn't know if when he prescribes the medicine, that patient also bought the medicine. If it could be monitored, a reminder should be provided to the family doctor or to the patient himself that the medicine has not been purchased, it could improve the person. Secondly, digital applications in healthcare. As I said, I understand that almost all doctors use digital prescriptions. Adding innovatively, for example, the genetic compatibility of medicines is actually very simple. There is scientific knowledge that we can apply, and there is also technology, not just for reading the genome, but also for managing and better understanding data. In fact, there is also a high public interest and openness to innovation. It is now very important that the state should influence the efficient use of health resources. If the country does the solutions, it will ensure a level playing field for all. If it goes in such a way that it is a comfort service, those with resources can buy it better. In fact, when services are provided nationally, they are also better regulated and reliable. Because we have reached a situation where there is so much data and their analysis is also offered by many different private companies. The reliability of how these data work, what information they give you back is often very vague or, I would say, completely 'black box', because as your client, you can't find what they do with your data, how they keep them and what happens to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U52	Thank you very much, Doctor of Philosophy Tõnu Esko! It's very nice to hear people in this hall who have things to say. But you yourself proposed that the report be 15 minutes. This can certainly be compensated for in the round of questions. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You could also continue with the unfinished thought when you answer my question. That's my question. It's very nice when health information comes to the computer, it's probably the advertising of pharmaceutical companies, and it requires an awareness of what is what. Your work and data certainly have great value for a family doctor. If the family doctor has eight minutes in the middle of the patient, as we heard above, how can this very valuable genetic information be so compactly wrapped, maybe it doesn't catch that it's elusive in a very short time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U54	Thank you. The thread of thought wasn't really broken. The only thing I wanted to say is that more than 130,000 Estonians have joined the gene program today, who have a genuine interest in their own genes. They are mostly interested in how genetic information gets into their medical history so that the doctor can make decisions based on it. The question is, how much good could it be for a family doctor and whether he has all the intricate information to make sense of, if he has enough time. In fact, as I said, the genetic profile is only one part of all health risks. Just as it is very difficult for a doctor to extract from the patient's data whether there is family history of the disease or whether, for example, health indicators indicate a risk of disease, this genetic information can actually be generalised into such a single collection. This obviously does not mean that now family doctors must all also take a PhD degree and become experts in the interpretation of genetic data. The idea here is that if there are smart algorithms, then basically nothing else happens on the family doctor's desk, except that there is one additional information on which to make decisions. Just as I said, pharmacogenetics, where setting a dose or choosing the suitability of a medicinal product should actually be done in such a way that it is simply integrated with a digital prescription, for which, at the moment the doctor prescribes the medicinal product, there is a warning, a window of information that says that, in the case of a medicinal product, there is a high probability that the dose should be re-evaluated or a different medicinal product should be considered. There would also be a list of suitable medicines. In other words, what is the basis for the decision is not so important. The important thing is that the decision can be based on data and information.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U55	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U56	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thanks for the presentation. But some message was missing. You have a great service, I sense that the Estonian people are willing to come along and let themselves be examined. How is the system organised anyway? You spoke of digital solutions. Is there a project manager who would take this IT solution so far that this information would reach all parties involved? Do you sense that there is currently some kind of confrontation at political, official or medical level, that we are not moving in the ideal direction that you have been presenting here for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U57	Thank you. Yeah, the vision we're introducing is still very unique in the world. There are some other countries that are trying to implement it, but in fact, everyone is looking up to Estonia, how we are doing, and if we are doing well, they will think on. Do we have a project manager? In particular, it is worth remembering that it started as a research project and is still a research project that assesses this potential if this type of model is implemented in a national healthcare system, what benefits could it bring. You asked whether there was political opposition or opposition from the authorities. No, it's definitely not. However, the complexity is that bringing information to the doctor's table requires a great deal of digital development and sometimes a review of the laws, as well as further training. Perhaps there is a need to rethink the entire health model and perhaps more family nurses or work and health doctors should be involved before family doctors. Unfortunately, the family doctor cannot manage all the information; he usually needs to treat the person. In fact, there should be one previous level of prevention, which focuses on the fact that when a person has early symptoms, they do not evolve. I am saying this because Estonia has the potential to be the first country in the world to apply such an innovative and forward-looking model, it should find a wider audience and audience.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U58	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this close-up, which looks very far at the same time. I'm gonna ask you about the other side. You rightly mentioned that digital solutions must bring all the knowledge and concentration of this genome institute and scientists to the doctor's table, but then there will be a doctor and a family nurse who is the most important. Has this new thinking, a new attempt and a new approach to the entire treatment procedure also reached our training in the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu? Are these things integrated now, or are these teachings still moving in their path and you doing your job on your own?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U60	Thank you. Well, science is still moving a little faster and a little bit more searchable than the standard teaching program. At this point, I am very pleased to say that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, funding from the European Structural Fund will be available for the next five years in order to review or supplement the training of doctors, which is particularly relevant to 'big data' and, in fact, to genetic data. There is also funding to start building different models of data transfer, so-called pipelines, so that the data system can move more efficiently, smoothly and safely, especially between different databases and decision-makers. Similarly, pilot projects have already taken place where genetic information is used in the practice of a family doctor. I mentioned breast cancer here earlier. From the beginning of next year, I think it's going to be that a thousand women are being recalled based on the information on their genetic risk profile and are being subjected to targeted mammography research. The same is true of heart disease. So the wheel has been turned on, but, of course, you could make these decisions much faster and apply it. Because, in fact, it is the citizen who will eventually suffer if the medicine he is prescribed is not in the right dosage, in the correct amount, or in the absence of early signs of disease.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U61	Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We have e-health and ever-increasing genetic information, then there is Dr. Google, thanks to which a person is much smarter than ever before about his health, because now he finds data there too. So there's quite a lot of information, and the person himself is much smarter. All these developments and the hope of finding out what else could happen, as you described, will clearly make health care more expensive, because a doctor or a scientist will eventually not be replaced by any machine, a person still needs. Do you think that this system is affordable for our society, so that we can use all the information and knowledge that gathers wisely in health care?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U63	Thank you. I would add that apart from Dr. Google, there are also so-called data translation companies in the charlatan field that offer you all sorts of exciting apps to buy our product or do just that exercise, because then you lose ten kilos in a month. If the question was whether Estonia as a whole can afford such a solution that seems futuristic at times, then I will say that this is the only way forward. As the population ages, we need to focus more and more not on treating, but on increasing the number of healthy years of life so that the citizen stays healthy for as long as possible. The emphasis must be placed on ensuring that the citizen does not become a patient or delay it as much as possible. Although it seems that this investment is very large, really, collecting a genetic sample within a gene project and creating a genetic map costs €50, it is still only one test that you do once in your life and that is applicable to all areas of life, health-critical areas, including medicines and everything else. Let me just give you an example. There was treatment for osteoporosis, and it took 15 million euros in 15 years, but people didn't really use it. To achieve the effect, the medicine had to be taken for three years. In fact, 40% of all patients who had spent money on them and whose medical expenditure was covered did not take the medicine enough to achieve an effect. Thus, EUR 5 million was spent simply empty, treatment covered, but the healing process was not achieved. The same is true of breast cancer prevention, screening is done where the problem is greatest.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U64	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U65	Thanks for the report. I'd like to get past this onion question. Inevitably, medicine gets more expensive. Let's say, in the case of this example that you said that the algorithm gives a very precise need for grass, etc., this very precise grass can be very expensive. There are also many examples of current medicine where doctors prefer to use, I don't know, old hormone medicines instead of biological drugs, because the difference is so high. Still convince me how this system of yours would make healthcare cheaper or not allow it to grow expansively as it is today, so that society simply cannot sustain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U66	Thank you. Let me be clear: I am not saying that such a novel model allows treatment costs to be reduced. I would say, however, that more extensive use of data and making as much machine-readable and decision-making as possible will enable the available resources to be used more efficiently. It is important not to use so much resources where it is not actually needed, because it can be used more wisely. One example I gave was the treatment of osteoporosis, where, in fact, the simple thing to observe is whether people are buying the medicine or not buying it is available on the table of a family doctor. In the same way, for example, breast cancer prevention, although a mammography screening study is being carried out, it is being paid off, but participation is still small, which means that early prevention of the disease is canceled and therefore continued treatment is needed, much more money for intensive care. However, if we do not rely on age or gender but rely a little more on information, regardless of whether it is genetic information or just health information, then we may be able to find people whose health problems can be solved with easier effort.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U67	Thank you very much for the waitress. Today's fourth waitress is Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, whose presentation is 20 minutes long. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U68	Mr President, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Thank you very much to Dr. Karmen Joller, Dr. Katrin Kaarma and Dr. Tõnu Esko! Very interesting presentations and very well-converging presentations that gave a picture of where we want to move, what our healthcare system will be like in the future. Tõnu ended with the fact that we should talk about the healthy years of life and the fact that the citizen does not become a patient. If we look at all the people of Estonia together, now the picture is that although life expectancy in Estonia has increased the most in the European Union over the last 15 years, we are getting out of the last third and we have taken good steps, we still have a lot of peaks to catch. Estonia stands out by the large gap between the life expectancy of men and women and the healthy life years, currently nine years. What takes away our health? There's a very, very complicated drawing here, but I like it. It says here all the diseases and accidents that rob us of our years of life, whether due to early mortality or morbidity, total 444000 years of age in 2016, so more than a third of us gave up one year. And top 3: cardiovascular disease, malignant neoplasms, crashes, poisonings, traumas. But the proportion of mental health problems, mental health concerns, also rises very quickly. If this picture is such that we see a lot of chronic problems, looks like neurological diseases and diabetes, what can we do? What's the goal to catch? On the state's side, we have set targets for the next 12 years that women's life expectancy will reach the age of 84, for men to 78, or the gap will decrease from nine to six. Looking at healthy years, the goal is quite ambitious: in the next 12 years, the healthy lives of men should be extended by 7.7 years. The question is how to get to it. If we set such a goal, what should we do? People say that there are waiting lists and they don't get help to get better health. Here, too, it has already emerged from some questions that the order of treatment has not been particularly discussed. The solution is not to put more money in specialist medical services. It's not the only thing to do. Indeed, health care receives extra money, arrived this year and arrives next year. The scheduled treatment sequences for hip endoprosthesis and cataract, i.e. ophthalmic surgery, have been shortened with increased reception in cardiology, paediatrics, psychiatry. It's a small step. If we really want to get rid of the concerns of the order of treatment, we can get children to receive treatment immediately, within one week, and other people should not have to wait more than four weeks, then the key is elsewhere. I'll start with what Tõnu Esko ended up with: we have to stay healthy. We are now in the backward half of life expectancy, there is a huge gap between the healthy lives of women and men. We all have some chronic illness during the last ten years of our work. One in four of us suffers from some mental health problems during our lives. To get out of it, and if we want a longer and healthier life, before we even start talking about a doctor, we need to look at a wider base: that we already have the knowledge of the school, the healthy lifestyles, what the first aid methods are and what we can do for our health. The environment must support healthy choices. Healthy food in kindergarten, school, hospital, nursing home for common money. Let the school get a move on, support it so that every child gets 60 minutes of exercise a day. This change is something that needs to be done outside the healthcare system. Similarly, all that concerns the working environment and maintaining mental health: schools and kindergartens must be free from bullying, work environment must be safe, work stress must be reduced, then we have the joy of school and the joy of work. If we create this supportive environment, there will be fewer people who need help. But if you need help, as has already been said today, it means that the right person is in the right place at the right time. We'll start with number one: if you need help, we'll start with a family doctor. Mr Joller spoke very nicely about the fact that family doctors and family nurses are really the foundation of our system, despite the EMO audit, which said that there are many non-extraordinary visits to the EMO. I was then asked a lot over the next two days whether this means that the family doctor system has failed, whether we should see if we should go back to some other solution. On the contrary. The only way out of here is to strengthen the family medical system so that family doctors can work as Karmen Joller said. Getting a family doctor's appointment must be convenient. Family doctors and family nurses listen, care, have time. They look at the patient as a whole, not only to solve one acute health problem, but also to support the patient so that he really knows how to take his medicine so that he knows how to take it. As Katrin Kaarma said, many older people, who have a greater burden on chronic diseases, need to have the healthcare system and the social welfare system working together. Health centres will contribute in the coming years to the modern diagnostics and working spaces of family doctors. This really is a large regional investment all over Estonia, everywhere, in a total of 60 health centres. And division of labour: how much can a family nurse actually do! It's just a question of our trust in the family nurse and the family doctor. They actually know how to handle chronic illness. Family nurses can issue repeat prescriptions and are also highly competent in the case of more frequent diseases. If we expect more from the family doctors, we must also give them these skills. From next year, the residency of family doctors will be extended by one year. We're talking about microsurgery, diagnostics, ultrasound and X-rays they have these skills. Similarly, perhaps special nurses, that if we have many patients with chronic diseases, such as diabetics and asthmatics, so that sisters can cope well with them. Of course, information systems, this smart screening. If the family doctor works with his list, there will be 1,600 or 2,200 patients, he will not be able to digitally click through the information and think and draw conclusions. This information must be automatically processed, there must be algorithms that send automatic notifications, remind the family doctor that no patient will be overlooked, that no person will fall between two visits on a busy day, and that no one's health will suffer as a result of lack of communication between the family doctor and the nurse. If there is so much information, there are many patients and there is a fast pace of work, then the information system must support this way of working. The desk must be comfortable, both for the family doctor and for all other healthcare professionals. Katrin Kaarma's slides had all the points of contact with the health care system. In fact, the primary pharmacy is also very important. Maybe we're the most exposed to the healthcare system at the pharmacy. The pharmacy should not be a point of sale, so we buy hematogen, shampoo, a pack of patches, and then prescription drugs. The pharmacy's supposed to be getting some pharmaceutical advice. The pharmacist advises, maybe helps with minor health problems, he also provides information on over-the-counter medicines and home treatment. There should also be health advice, and the pharmacy should not only be the place where the purchase is made. Second, the healing route is smooth. That's what Dr. Katrin Kaarma was talking about. There has to be cooperation, not that we're talking about a patient at a family doctor's and hospital, then a social worker is doing something, and then there are ambulances and high-level hospitals. A person can get a piece of help from anywhere, but this information needs to move. These systems are built for the average patient. Earlier, a few decades ago, it was very difficult for a person to manage a paper-based system: there was a reception, there was an analysis, then it was, two weeks later, this drugsis was like this. Now we have much more information, and there is no need for all patients to follow the same path. Treatment routes can be personalised and consideration can also be given to whether a person lives alone or has loved ones, whether he or she is coping with homework, or whether he or she needs the help of a nurse. They are all such decisions so that we can provide every person with the help we need and offer it where it is practical and reasonable. From diagnosis to follow-up treatment, as well as chronic disease monitoring, it must be a smooth journey where doctors and hospitals do not compete with each other for analysis and procedures and do not keep information to themselves. The patient moves and the information moves and the cooperation seeks a better health outcome for this person. Funding must support this. If we fund receptions, procedures and analyses, we will only support this shredding. If we start financing the health result or monitoring of the disease or the course of treatment in a complete manner over a period of time, this is one thing that will also support the change in the patient's treatment. Let's look at geographical availability. It is also a question of the extent to which we take into account that the regions are different. It's harder to find doctors on Earth. It is important to ensure the financial stability of the hospital. Perhaps you could think about budget-based funding and that a doctor working in rural areas would have the highest rate of charge. There is a need to move towards access to medical care everywhere in Estonia. The funding system must also support health support for the best health outcomes for people. So, here's the third point, these e-solutions that have already been discussed several times today. It has also been said that this e-solution should work smoothly in the background so that adding genetic information to the family doctor's toolbox does not mean additional work. The doctor can simply make a decision with valuable support from his computer, he gets information supporting treatment decisions without having to dig for himself without having to open a line of PDFs without having to interpret genetic information and think that oo-ooh-ooh, that's the kind of allele here, how can I now understand what I have to compare it with. It has to be easy, it has to be comfortable. We have the data. Hospitals have a lot of data, family doctors have data, genetic resources have data, health insurance has data, S.T.A.R.R. and S.A.S. has social welfare data. It is necessary that they run together so that those health care professionals and social welfare workers who need to see information can see it and provide assistance to the patient at the right time. If the information moves nicely, there are also fewer duplicate analyses and better treatment decisions. As I was saying, the healing journey must be personal. Indeed, it is not conceivable that this path of treatment is led by the registrar lady who says that you now need to go there and take these medications or come to the reception and have a study time like this. This has to happen automatically. And that so-called smart screening or intelligent screening that Tõnu Esko was talking about. If a family doctor has 2,000 patients on the list, it is necessary to assess who should come to the appointment. Man has reached some age, his previous medical history gives this information, and genetic risks are like this, and now he should be invited to do tests. For example, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: lights and do your procedure and get information and maybe you should start treatment. The disease is then discovered early before a person starts to suffer from shortness of breath and comes to a doctor with symptoms and can intervene earlier. The same is true for familial hypercholesterolaemia: action should be taken before a person develops heart disease or abnormally high cholesterol levels. Statin therapy is cheap, we can put a person on statin therapy maybe 15 years earlier, if he had any complaints. This is the increase in efficacy or victory. As a whole, we can never reduce health care costs in absolute terms, but we can control their growth, we have better health and we have lower costs than we would have in an alternative situation. There have already been numerous visits here today that more money is needed for health care. If you look at the health insurance fund's forecast so far, you can see that the health insurance fund will have enough money for about the next six to eight years. During this period, we must reach an agreement on how we will finance our health care in the future. But we know that the population is ageing, that people have greater expectations of treatment and quality of life, how they would like to live with chronic illness. Technology is evolving, new medicines and medical devices are emerging, even biological treatments that can be provided to people. If that is what we want to do, yes, we need more money for health care. Another thing if we can agree that education, health and social work is a safety net that we all have, it is not dependent on the thickness of the wallet or on our choices of life, and if we want to provide health care to everyone and extend the protection of health care, even so that family medical care, which can help a wide range of health concerns, will be available to everyone when we make this decision, we will also need extra money, about 1% of GDP over the next four years. Yes, an additional financial decision has already been made, and contributions will be made for non-working pensioners. That will solve some of our problems. Indeed, we are able to increase the number of receptions to some extent, reduce the number of treatments, add new medicines and medical devices to the list, invest in IT systems, but if we want to offer this service to a wider range of people, we need additional money. Shared healthcare funding is undoubtedly the only right thing, that we ourselves are not responsible for covering our own costs, that the financial risk of illness is not our own. Similarly, there is the right direction for strengthening the primary level, how many family doctors and nurses can do, and what can be done in county hospitals in cooperation with family doctors and nurses and social specialists. But not all counties look the same, and county hospitals don't have to look the same. We don't have to hit everyone with one stick. We're saying that patient treatment should be personal. We will also consider an agreement on our hospital network, how we shape it. Hospitals can also be personal. Viljandi does not have to be the same as Hiiumaa and Narva does not have to be the same as Põlva. So I hope that, as a society, we value health care more, but if we have a problem, we also contribute more so that everyone gets the right medical care in the right place at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U69	Thank you very much to the Minister. A round of questions follows. March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister, it was very nice to listen to you! Question about Valga Hospital. I wanted to ask you, inside the general information or information noise, that after the reforms that took place in Valga Hospital, how much or how much or to what extent the queues in Valga have shrunk to the women's doctors and when the ambulance service is added, how much this service has become more expensive. According to general information, the ambulance service is four, five or six times more expensive than the regular service. How is this balance sheet, plus or minus, has there been a positive or negative effect, and how is the local community satisfied with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U71	Thank you for your question. When we talk about county hospitals and the service circle that must be available there, the first criterion is not money, whether it is more economical or not. We are talking about quality of service, risk mitigation, especially in more complex procedures, how, to what extent it is possible to maintain competence, with what burden it is necessary to work in one profession or another. So on the basis of this quality criterion, these decisions on the service chain could also be made, not based on the fact that the cost of an ambulance is either either so or so, more expensive or cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U72	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I looked at your last slide and noticed...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U74	Yeah, I've got funding too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U75	No, the slide that showed us the fifth place is 'Let's keep health' and the first place is the family doctor. I think this is a very clear expression of our attitude. The entire financing system actually produces exactly the same fruitage. I think "Let's keep you healthy" should be the first, and the second one could or should be the family doctor. What am I referring to? When I look at the Health Insurance Fund's budget, you spoke very nicely about how much money came to private medicine, I do not see the same growth figures or proportionally more equal growth figures as regards the strengthening of the fund for prevention and information and the institution of family doctors so that they can actually deal with health prevention and counselling. Plus, the funding system and our health treatment or case-handling do not motivate health care. Who controls quality? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U76	Thank you for your question. Luckily, in my report, I started with health care. But really, this one-to-five list doesn't show any significance or order. Today, the focus was on health care, on the order of treatment, but this health care, just as I said, concerns the working environment, the school, it concerns a much wider base in our society, actually the attitude. This is about how we notice mental health concerns, how we view them, how stigmatized these people are, whether people dare to ask for help. These changes in values are inevitably at the forefront, the most necessary, they are difficult to achieve with money, but I agree that this is the change that we want, above all, to achieve. In this sense, it is not secondary in any way. If we are talking about funding the health care system, screening, children's dental care, all these things that allow us to notice problems early and prevent more serious concerns, then yes, there should be a greater contribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U77	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The National Audit Office's audit since 2011 (it has then been seven years at least) claims that the EMO carries out several times more expensive family doctor work, something that family doctors cannot or cannot do. We hear a variety of options and solutions here, though in the IT field and elsewhere. But what has really been done to ensure that the E.R.O. does its main work and that family doctors can do their main work? It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U79	Yeah. Thank you for your question. Indeed, on the one hand, we need to look at how much family doctors are already doing. During the seven years, the rights and role of nurses and the rights of doctors have changed. They do more than ever. It is also a question of people's attitudes. When this ER audit came out and was taken aside for Finland's comparison, it was said that the Finn knew that if there was a cold cough, you would turn to the family nurse and ask for advice. In Estonia, the attitude that it is the family nurse who is helping with the first swing, he is the one to ask for advice from, so far it is not, but it gets better. On the one hand, training orders from both family doctors and family nurses have increased so that they have more so that they can deepen and communicate more with the patient and give him better help and advice. Health centres are now being set up, they have already been opened, they will be opened over the next year. It's good when doctors work together at the health centre. In single practice, it is very difficult to provide a long reception time, but at least three family doctors work in the rural area, at least six in the city, at least 24 in some places in Tallinn, there are longer reception times than in single practice, so that a person can contact a family doctor during the day and he does not need to go to the EMO. Because the E.E.R. statistics show that they are actually approached with concerns that fall within the competence of a family doctor during the day. So if a patient with this daily concern could be moved to a family doctor, that would be a big step forward. That's why health centres are coming. We have family doctors and nurses who are very good, and this knowledge needs to be shared. The Health Insurance Fund campaign 'Start from a family doctor', which especially invites men to visit a family doctor, is a step in this direction. But all about changing attitudes is trust in the family doctor and nurse, or understanding what mental health problems are, or what the school environment has to do to maintain health, it takes time to change it all. I agree that seven years is a long time, but when we talk about, for example, the motivation for tax payments or something like that, seven years is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U80	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I very much hope that there will not be another audit by the National Audit Office, which says that family doctor work in the EMO is more expensive. However, my question concerns the bureaucracy rate more generally, on several axes between the doctor and the institution, as well as between the Ministry and the Health Insurance Fund, and whether or not the burden of a family doctor should be reduced, so that he has time for the main job. Practitioners complain that this burden does not decrease, but increases. What is your answer, and what is the Ministry going to do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U82	However, all of this pressure, which is outside the work of a family doctor, could be mitigated as much as possible. Whether it concerns administrative activities or commenting on drafts or communicating with the health insurance fund, the burden that is outside professional work could be mitigated. But when we talk about developing or improving the IT system, the information necessary for the system to actually support the family doctor in his work cannot be given to the developer by an official, it cannot be given by anyone other than the family doctor. The way a family doctor does his job, where one or the other button has a more convenient location or what type of information to present is what family doctors themselves can describe, they can describe their needs. The same is true, for example, of the changes planned in family medicine. It can't be a family doctor's decision. As to how much they speak and contribute, it can be said that family doctors are very good, that they and their associations can be used as examples for other professions, that in fact the same cooperation and contributions are needed from all medical professions, because this work is specific. It is very difficult for a urologist to set up a pediatrician's work or an endocrinologist's work as a family doctor, so we are talking about a desktop, work organisation or legal space that regulates this activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U83	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U84	Good manager! Good waitress! Shortening treatment queues is very important and the financial moment is also very important. Looking at the percentage of last year's funding, we can see that it has fallen. Yesterday, however, the EKRE tabled an amendment to increase funding in order to shorten treatment queues. The proposal was really only to increase by 2 million, but it was voted down, with only 17 ambassadors in favour. Do you think it was wise or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U85	Thank you. I cannot comment on what was the proposal, what was the motivation and who voted on it. There is no doubt about the long-term need for more money for health care, but the funding should be sustainable, just as we have so far been very well served by linking to social tax. The fact that we have funding for health care that is independent of political decision, so that the Health Insurance Fund can count on its receipt, is very grateful. For example, during the crisis period, when spending fell everywhere else, health care costs were kept to the same level as in previous periods, because the health insurance fund was independent in its decisions in this sense, it was able to use its reserves, and it is valuable. If, for example, I am talking about the restructuring of healthcare funding in the future, there must also be a firm framework agreed in the same way, which the Health Insurance Fund can count on every year, so that no individual decisions are needed during the budgetary process to buy some medicines or to reduce the number of treatments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U86	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I cannot agree with you that a person's own health does not concern the order of treatment. They are literally concerned. If people were healthier, we wouldn't be talking about the order of treatment today. We'd like fewer people to be in line, no matter how long that line is. But I did not get an answer to the second question concerning the allocation of money to prevention. You said that more money was allocated to the Health Insurance Fund, which also means that some money was simply transferred from the Ministry to the Health Insurance Fund, and it did not bring added value. But I still want to ask you if you at the Ministry and Health Insurance have discussed how you analyze the patient's movements in the treatment system. Have all these activities, from the visit to the final decisions, been monitored? Do we get an analysis of whether the procedures that were carried out contributed to the matter, whether they were overexploited, and what could be done to prevent such things from happening? Statistically, everything might seem very nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U88	Thank you. Yes, people with chronic diseases, for example. Both Dr Katrin Kaarma and Dr Karmen Joller referred to the World Bank survey, which carried out the data of Estonian people and looked at how a person can diagnose procedures and how and what happens to follow-up treatment, subsequent family doctor visits, medication. The treatment pathways of the patients were reviewed in the selected diagnosis groups. In fact, there came an indication that a great deal of specialized medicine is being visited by us with concerns that are really the competence of a family doctor. A lot of holes or gaps occur when a person takes away medicines, for example, but doesn't go to renew a prescription, doesn't go to re-prescription, or needs to go to medical examinations after, for example, three or six months, maybe the first time he does, but he won't go any further. This effort, this treatment, such as being in hospital, it's all been done, the expensive service has been provided, but how to ensure that, in fact, this cheaper service, which ultimately ensures that the health result is achieved, these visits and medications, is put to work together with everything. It's been watched. There are concerns and the situation needs to be improved. This is supported by these e-solutions and changes in the funding system to motivate a comprehensive approach to patient care. So yes, analysis is done and concerns are described.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U89	Thank you very much, Minister, for your presentation and your answer to questions. Ladies and gentlemen, since the list of speakers is as long as the order of patients to a specialist, we must ensure that we have time to hear all the calls. This leads us to the vote because the Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed to extend the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 16 delegates in favour of the proposal, with one abstention. We're going to continue the hearing, and now it's time for the speeches. First please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U90	Ladies and gentlemen and guests! Long medical queues. In fact, the problem is much wider. In order to shorten these queues, we need a thorough overhaul of all our health care arrangements. You will remember that almost ten years ago, the World Health Organisation issued a very sharp warning to us: if you continue to do so, you will face irreversible consequences in ten years' time. In fact, nothing was done, even though the warning was extremely serious. Lasted in the old way, the number of treatments was constantly reduced, the patient started to pay more and more, the queues were extended, people couldn't get in line, because "all kinds of obstacles" were set up. Today's government has decided in the coalition agreement that health care needs to be significantly increased by 220 million over four years. It is clear that, in the health care that has been underfunded for years, the queues cannot be reduced significantly today, but we have managed with additional money to halt the deterioration of this process. But I'm asking you, when did the patient start to feel like he wasn't going to see a doctor anymore, and when he finally gets there, the doctor doesn't have time to deal with him. Where is the doctor who examines, sees and treats the patient as a whole, not in pieces or pieces? Is it even possible for a doctor to search the e-sick history of the visit for pictures, previous analyses and to understand them all for a limited period of time? It is easier to write a new consignment note for analysis-samples. Where is the beginning of this mistake? This all happened 20 years ago, especially in 1998, when in Estonia the purchase of health care services from a private company was transferred. It was thought to be cheaper, but it went the other way. You remember this time: small and large businesses, large hospitals and small hospitals, family medicine centres, pharmacy chains were formed, health clinics were abolished, and the money collected jointly and severally from the taxpayer was kindly transferred to private companies. That is when we moved from health care to health care and started to go into bankruptcy. Robert Lepikson, a member of the Riigikogu, who has long gone on a manalade today, wrote in 2006: "If the state refuses to understand that medical institutions must not be companies, it should be non-profit organisations, where the entire service is spent on targeted activities, which is the provision of health services, then there is nothing to be surprised if sick houses are profitable, but at the end of the year there is no money available for surgery and specialist doctors. " He said that a well - known reversal of the military must be made and that the medical care provided by the entire country should be concentrated in the hands of one owner, the state, including equipment procurement, in order to avoid duplication, and everything else. Madis Veskimägi, a family doctor in Tõstamaa, has repeatedly spoken about these matters. He wrote a few years ago: "I also consider it right to have a network of nationally built health centres that takes into account the location of the population and the real need. " He said that today's hospital is no longer a medical institution but a flourishing company. 'Stop the market economy medical arrangements,' he said. I myself have written many times and many times on these matters. You see, they actually knew how to move on years ago, but they didn't. However, I would like to remind you that the Health Minister's seat was in the hands of the Reform Party for many years. I repeat: in today's business-based medical system, doctors are competing with each other. The doctor no longer has time to study the patient because it is of no use to him, it is useful to carry out tests, apparatus examinations, tomography studies, etc. He'll pay for it. I don't blame doctors, it's the system. In fact, we urgently need to start financing the outcome of the treatment, the patient must be treated as a whole and the results measured on the basis of health outcomes, not on a service-based basis. It's been said, but that's as far as it gets. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U91	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U92	You can't go on like this. The state is pumping more and more billions of private market medicine, and this bag mouth will remain open forever. A nationally managed and controlled health network must be established. Planned profit-based medicine must be discontinued. Foundations must be established and commercial institutions must only operate on the basis of private capital. Let us set an example for the Nordic national social system and health care. It is essential to put an end to the situation where the state allows the family doctor to withdraw the minimum salary and live out of dividends. How can it be that the doctor himself does not contribute to the tax system on which healthcare exists? All this needs a transitional period. At the moment, the working hours of family doctors must definitely be extended; they should also receive them after the end of the working day and at the weekend. Emergency help must be provided alongside ambulances. In Finland, for example, there are two family doctors on the same list and they work for a long time. We need more doctors. The villager Mand has said that there could be parallels in an ambulance: one door goes in for an ambulance, the other people go in for an ambulance. But in any case, we're about to know how many diagnoses there are, and we can do all of this with public money so that we plan straight ahead. The family doctor should not be an entrepreneur; in essence, the former health centres should be restored in the form of existing health centres, there would be no competition and the doctor could deal with the treatment. In addition, Madis Veskimägi's words: 'Medical would become an entrepreneurial earner. The medic has a professional job, but everything else could be solved with support structures. ' So I don't think it's enough to describe the situation and make cosmetic improvements anymore. We do not have time for this; we need to make a cardinal change and move to a state-controlled and controlled healthcare system. It would save money and give you a better chance to heal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U93	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Helmen Küttt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U94	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable speakers! Good fellows! On behalf of the Socialists, I would like to thank you for your excellent presentations and reviews. The question in the title of today's debate 'How to shorten treatment queues? ' I'm sure it's not easy to answer. There are almost never easy answers to difficult questions. The problem itself is of various aspects, and in order to find solutions, we need to look at a bigger picture. Let's see where we stand as a country and a nation. The general objective of the People's Health Development Plan 2009 to 2020 is that the number of healthy life years in Estonia will increase to an average of 60 in men and 65 in women by 2020 and the average life expectancy will increase to 84 in men and women. Healthy life expectancy in Estonia was 58.7 years old for women in 2006. By comparison, according to Eurostat, the average figure in the European Union was 63.3 for women and 62,6 for men, i.e. in Estonia the healthy life expectancy of women is nearly five years shorter and even more than eight years shorter for men. Looking at the above, it is not necessary to say today that everything is bad in our health care, but we cannot say that everything is great either. Small actions and decisions are a big picture, and they have been made worse or better during different governments. Estonian health expenditure was 6.7% of GDP according to 2016 data, while OECD average health expenditure in 2016 was 9.0% of GDP. Our good and wise family doctors, specialist doctors, nurses, carers, and other people working in the medical system do excellent work with considerably smaller financial resources. Estonia's solidarity insurance policy, through which both children and the elderly are insured with health care services, is the only right and possible. The concern, however, is that nearly 100,000 people of working age are uninsured, either in the short term or in full, and only emergency assistance is provided. Is there not one possible answer to the question of why so much is being addressed to emergency medical departments? In the coming years, the number of working-age residents in Estonia will decrease by an average of 4800 per year. According to Eesti Pank, in 15 years' time, we will have nearly 75,000 fewer people on the labour market than today. Thus, people's health and the ability to contribute to society in the long term are increasingly important. The European Commission notes in its working document that although the employment rate of Estonian residents is above the European Union average, the trend of people leaving the labour market for health reasons has not decreased. Regrettably, 2016 was the decade of the worst accidents. Twenty-six people lost their lives at work, and 7037 incapacity sheets were taken, which were reimbursed by the Health Insurance Fund for more than EUR 4 million, not to mention 1.3 million unemployed. It is true that fewer people had lost their lives in 2017 due to accidents at work, but the high number of accidents at work is certainly a concern, both for people and for the state. What has been done and what more needs to be done? The fact that the health insurance fund still makes a large contribution to dealing with the consequences - treatment and very little prevention - is no secret, but disease prevention is many times cheaper for society, not to mention the life of the person and the quality of his family life. Nor is it unknown that more than ten years ago, Estonian doctors and other medical staff said that health care needs more funds than taxes on people who work. Politicians spoke of this, but it was only today's government that planned the 2018/2022. Additional financial resources for the sickness fund in the 2010 budget strategy. Over the next five years, healthcare will receive additional funding to improve the availability and quality of healthcare and to reduce queues, EUR 34 million this year and EUR 41 million next year. Special attention will be given to children whose priority should be to shorten the order of treatment. To continue the gene project... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U95	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U96	... a total of EUR 3.55 million was allocated in 2019, in addition to the resources available at the base. These tools are necessary for the development of personal medicine, thereby improving disease prevention and treatment. The collection of genetic samples and the production of genetic maps shall be continued. From 1 January 2018, businesses will be able to contribute EUR 400 per year to the health of their employees, free of tax. Until 2018, the company's investments in machinery and equipment were tax-free, but contributions to workers' health were penalised by a special preferential tax. Of course, the amount could be more than EUR 400, but the start has been made. It is certainly not of minor importance that more than 60 health centres are completed across Estonia. Greater cooperation between family doctors and specialist doctors, as well as between health care institutions, will ensure better and faster help for people in need. Teams working in health centres are already able to offer more healthcare to those who turn to them at the first level. Giving nurses greater rights is legitimate. In the Committee on Social Affairs, a draft is on the table, which would also give family doctors a greater role and more rights. The Estonian Association of Family Doctors has been very supportive in handling this draft and it considers this possibility to be extremely important. In order to reduce people's ownership, both the dental benefit system and the payment of medical benefits have been changed. Just one example: nearly €9 million will be earmarked for the additional benefits of high-stake-out preferential medicines in the coming year. Within 10 months of this year, 110000 people have received compensation and 6.4 million have been paid out. I can only highlight a few problems, but they are very important and need to be resolved. Firstly, the thought pattern changed, and the fact that people themselves must take greater responsibility, and the idea that by eating, moving, and regular health checks, healthy and healthy when there is no problem yet, that is to say, it is worth contributing to prevention, both for children and adults. Access to screening should also be granted to uninsured persons at the health insurance fund, as both treatment outcomes and quality of life are better and social costs are lower if the disease is detected early. As the number of cancer patients is growing worldwide, it is certainly essential to develop a long-term strategy for cancer in Estonia, because we are among countries that do not have such a strategy. There is concern at the health insurance fund for uninsured people of working age. The link between health and care services is weak, if not to say that it is almost nonexistent. Due to the different funding schemes, expensive services are under pressure, and there is an unreasonably high incentive to obtain them, as they have a lower level of ownership, although they are not always the most appropriate ones. There's a great hope here for the Viljandi Hospital project. E-solutions! Finally. In 1991, Pope John Paul II concluded his century letter as follows: "Once upon a time the decisive factor of production was the land, and later it was capital... Today, the decisive factor is the person himself. " Keeping people, working to ensure that everyone in need gets the right service at the right time. Every man counts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U97	Following the initiative of the initiators, I will next give the floor to the representative of the Isamaa Group. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U98	Mr President, I would also like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U99	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U100	We all understand the importance and scope of this issue in the same way. There can be no such consensus on the solution. The problem is so important that, according to Mart Sus, the docent of human rights at Tallinn University, it can lead to human rights violations. According to Susi, the international theory of human rights finds that in medicine it is not important whether it is a public hospital or a private hospital, everyone has the same duty to guarantee human rights. 'We have a problem with long specialist queues, and if it can be proved that this is precisely why a person has lost his or her life or health significantly, then we can say that this is a violation of human rights,' he added. In 2015, 12.7% of Estonian residents had an uncovered need for treatment, according to an overview of the Estonian Health Profile of the European Commission for 2017. This is mainly due to long waiting lists, but to a lesser extent also due to the cost or distance of services. This figure was the highest in the European Union in Estonia. Last year, 10.5% of people estimated that they did not receive the necessary healthcare due to a long waiting list of treatments. In Estonia, treatment needs not covered by other Member States are a problem for all income groups, both low, medium and higher incomes. The differences between Estonian income quintiles are small, as the main obstacle to the use of services is not only their cost, as I said, but also physical distance and queues. In outpatient care, nine of the 33 specialties in the previous year had a longer average waiting period than allowed for quarters. 54% of patients did not receive outpatient treatment during their scheduled waiting period. It is also interesting that neither the Health Insurance Fund nor hospitals keep track of the number of patients who could not get in line because there were simply no available visits. We conclude from this that patients' satisfaction studies are unreliable, because only those who are "perceived" are being investigated, unfortunately we know nothing about others. If you add that the waiting time for some inpatient treatments also reaches the years, it is clear that there is something wrong in this country. As of 1 January, the waiting period for inpatient treatment at East Tallinn Central Hospital was 658 days for orthopedics, for example, and the analogous situation is characterised by the LOR specialty, where the waiting period at the University Hospital of Tartu was 608 days. At the beginning of the year, 20% of patients had not been admitted to inpatient care during the waiting period and 28% of patients had not been admitted to daytime care, according to the National Audit Office's report. The decline in the number of people of working age, the ageing population and the increase in the cost of health care in the light of technological developments and wage pressures in the sector are factors that increase the pressure on the financing of our health care system. Specialist medical care costs are increasing by around EUR 17 million per year due to an ageing population, in other words, the cost structure is changing. For information, however, only 0.7% of the Estonian population considers the cost of the service to be an obstacle to accessing the service and the same small part considers the geographical location of the service to be an obstacle. Of course, there are probably poorer people in the queue because they are unable to consume paid services. The need for unabated treatment is evenly high across society, but it still affects more poorer people. The conclusion of the party Isamaa is that the extra money is not the only solution. This means that there is a complex concern that today's health care system is not able to manage. Consequently, we need to approach systematically and find new opportunities, probably along with a paradigm shift in the area of health care. Secondly, the cost of the service in itself is inevitable in a market economy, including keeping the medical service alive means costs and is compensated by price. Physical distance is also an indispensable factor, even more so if we want to develop infrastructure in the country, it is only positive. We have to accept these things, and more importantly, we have to support both market-economy thinking and dislocation across the country. So we have to deal with all the reasons that create queues, because it is the problem of the system, it is not some of the above-mentioned inevitable factors. Fourth, seizing queues occurred during the time of the depression, or perhaps waiting times were used to adjust the length of the waiting lists. Among other things, long waiting times show systemic problems, poor coordination of treatment processes, unmotivated primary level, weak cooperation with the social welfare system at local government level, but this has been discussed for a long time before. When the cost structure is changing, i.e. the higher proportion of treatment services for older people plus the increase in technology costs plus the growing wage pressure in the sector, we should think about the multiplicity of funding sources, both in terms of subsidiarity and solidarity. It follows from the above that the extra money does not solve our problems (also the National Audit Office has reached this understanding), but we consider a paradigm shift to be important. The primary level must be strengthened in such a way that each person is a contractual partner of his or her family doctor with responsibilities and responsibilities. In this case, we will motivate the primary level of action to protect health as well as to prevent and detect diseases in a timely manner, and all parties will understand their role. People's awareness must be raised not by slogans of size, but by means of appropriate IT tools for our country to monitor their health, exchange information with a family doctor, receive a referral and consultation on time. And the main, health care system must work as a whole, from the family doctor to the operating surgeon and post-operative rehabilitation staff and the local government social workers. In other words, after the first visit to a doctor, the person is inside the health care system and all necessary examinations are carried out until rehabilitation, without humiliating the person in a number of registration offices, without requiring different papers and without running the person. Finally. In 2017, some 300,000 people, or one in four in Estonia, turned to the EMO. In total, 460200 visits were made to the EMO, which is 13% more than in 2010. At this point, it should be said that I do not want to agree with the argument that poor quality of family practice and specialist care queues would force patients to turn to the EMO, rather the whole structure of our healthcare system still wants to be seriously reviewed from the top to the top. We believe that in addition to ensuring internal and external security in the country, the priority is to organise health care and to change its paradigm, both to increase people's working and defence capacity, but also given that our pension system does not guarantee the preservation of quality of life in senior years, so we must work longer and as long as possible and, of course, as well as possible. Good luck both in making wise decisions in this Chamber and in all the other rooms where these decisions need to be made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U101	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U102	Mr President! Honourable performers! Good ambassadors! I will continue, on behalf of the Free Party Group, where Priit Sibul, the representative of the Fatherland, graduated. The health system cannot be changed by changing only one small part of it or by improving only one section of it. The time has probably come when the whole system should be reviewed, and it also needs a new reflection and a paradigm. I agree with all the statements made by previous speakers that there are errors in several places, errors and shortcomings not only in one part of the system, but I would raise an even bigger question here. What does a person need? A person needs to have confidence and confidence that if something happens to his health, he knows where he gets help and what kind of help. In our very eclectic society, where we talk about networks and e-solutions and where everything works and does not work, and where it is very difficult to understand things, because the information is very different and the information is received from very different sources, the really big question is that people are not given this assurance or this sense of security, so that they know where and when exactly they can get help. We could say many things in a much simpler and clearer way and say more boldly that the first place a person should turn is a family doctor's center. There is a need to review the workload of family doctors and family nurses, the amount of bureaucracy that has now fallen on the family doctor, and what really would not be necessary. Secondly, the same new model that Dr Kaarma introduced here today, the health centre, should have been applied thoughtfully to work. We should not forget, as compared to the health centre, that, for example, in this former health centre, specialist doctors worked side by side, and it was often easy to communicate or look across the door to see if you had time to look over my patient who had a problem with his ear, and that did not allow the queues to occur. The meaning of the health centre should not be so difficult, as the first task should still be based on the fact that a person needs to know where he or she can get help. The health centre is not part of the network, it is the centre of medical work. Then we can continue to reflect on the treatment of the higher stage. Maybe you don't need to send a person from the health centre, you probably don't need that often. The direction towards using gene medicines is right and perhaps in 25 years' time, maybe in five years' time, it will produce the expected results, we must believe in it, but we must not forget its economic side. We should have these tests before we introduce it in our medicine in a clear and unambiguous way. At the same time, the teaching side, the training side of new doctors, should be directly accompanying it and incorporated into it. What really seems to be behind this big question of how to shorten the order of treatment... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U103	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U104	...there is precisely a lack of a comprehensive approach. Perhaps it is inevitable that our paradigm had to try other options, other options, in the meantime, but at this whole trial stage too often and too much medicine has been introduced as a business. This has also led to the fact that we often have excellent devices in hospitals, and all the tools are available, we do not miss the highest standard in any way, but we do not have enough doctors in one place, nurses in another, just no longer have the ability to keep these machines running at all. It is no one's direct guilt, it is nothing more than the fact that we often do not know what is done on the basis of one decision and how this one decision affects other decisions. What is needed in the sense of medicine is precisely all the wisdom that exists in our medical science. We must not forget that as early as the beginning of the 20th century, the Estonian medical science said these golden words: the apparatus may be, the skills may be, but above all, it is the doctor who treats the person from the first moment on. And the business behind here has to be forgotten at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U105	Mr Pevkur will speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Just in case, I'll ask you three minutes straight ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U107	Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U108	Ladies and gentlemen, who are still listening, honourable Minister and guests, and all of you who are still watching this broadcast somewhere in the web or otherwise! When we talk about the order of treatment, we should actually start with whether or not there is a problem. Looking at the research, looking at the opinions of ordinary people, it turns out that general health care in Estonia is in good health, but the biggest problem in health care is indeed the order of treatment, I would like to get to a doctor faster. This is subjectively completely understandable, and, objectively, we will certainly find countries in the world where we can get to a doctor faster, and we will find countries where we can get to a doctor much slower. This is at all stages of health care, starting with emergency medicine and primary care, and ending with specialist medical care and already more specific services. I fully agree that when it comes to building up the health system and discussing the order of treatment, we really need to talk about the whole. It is not possible to cut out one part and think that it will immediately solve either the problem of waiting lists or the problem of the quality of treatment or some other health problem. In any case, health is one whole. If you look at what can be done in the future, there are certainly things that can make a significant difference in Estonia. One way is to talk about the past, about what we're all having a bad time. My speech today focuses primarily on the future and on what we can do to improve. I'll start with how to get to a doctor faster. Of course, there are different ways of doing this, but it seems undoubtedly that today there are different components in the autopsy, also knowing the functioning of the system, that the implementation of the national digital registration office is undisputed. Yes, it exists in different hospitals, but we still don't have a national picture, so people are in several places in order, and that means a virtual queue. What else can I do? It is certainly possible to significantly increase the volume of remote consultations, it is certainly possible to consult the patient and doctor remotely, as well as the doctor and doctor, for example, the family doctor receives the consultation from a specialist and thus actually releases the specialist's resources, the patient does not have to put himself in line with the specialist. Personally, I am deeply convinced that in fact quite a lot can also be improved by measuring the quality of health care or by measuring the quality of treatment and by linking it to results. Helmen Küttt mentioned Viljandi Hospital and the new method used there, which in its message carries a very simple goal: in fact, a person must get well. It has to be understood that some diseases may have a very different cause than just looking at the disease and diagnosis, it seems, these causes are somewhere else. The ultimate goal of medicine should not be for a person to get out of hospital, but for a person to be cured. Therefore, all possible measures, how we can better assess and better target the quality of treatment, are extremely important. What else? In any case, it is inevitable that the primary level can contribute more than has been the case so far. This means that the problem of the order of treatment in the specialist health care system is again somewhat relieved. At the first level, in turn, it is possible to increase the opportunities and rights of family doctors, if, on the other hand, it is possible to give more rights to family nurses and thus certainly improve the situation at the first level. Patient awareness and total human awareness. One thing is prevention, what people know about their state of health, another is whether a person also knows the costs of improving their state of health, i.e. the price of treatment should be seen by the patient. But coming back to the medical service or to the patient's own awareness, I'll say that it's inevitable to use innovative solutions here. When we talk about genetic resources and the creation of human genetic cards, the additional information that comes from there is absolutely necessary in order to provide people with better treatment. The automatic access to genetic data should be provided by family doctors, specialist doctors and also by pharmacists. This would certainly allow better treatment, which would allow people to be given more appropriate treatment if, for example, when writing a prescription, some types of medicines are better suited, some active substances are better suited, some active substances need to be taken less, or some active substance needs to be taken more, depending on what the gene card says about the ability to take medicines. So clearly, the direction of innovation and the future in the use of human data, concerning human health data and, on the other hand, data already collected per person, digitised, from genetic data to personal data, is that the exchange of information must, in any case, be significantly higher. We have also proposed for the future an eHealth 2.0 or a new basic approach to eHealth. That's the inevitable direction. I would certainly like to say that we, as a country, have the opportunity to make minor changes, which will have a significantly greater impact. Again, the effects of drugs, the effects of drugs. In order to make much more medicines available than is available today, very simple changes can be made, allowing medicines already on the market in the European Union to be put into circulation in Estonia. It should be done. I'm going to end up with an idea farther into the future. In any case, all that concerns future solutions, more and more use of innovation and IT is inevitable so that we can both shorten treatment queues and improve the quality of treatment. Ultimately, it is the quality of treatment that needs to be stressed, along with competition and everything else that goes with it. But read more about the Reform Party Health Programme, it's all these and much better thoughts. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U109	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U110	Mr President! Good minister! Good waitresses! Good ambassadors! Let's look at our constitution. Its Article 28 states very clearly that every Estonian has the right to state aid in the protection of health. But it would be too simplistic only to rely on state aid, and even, I would say, a little selfish, because health is our greatest asset. To whom it has been given a little more by nature, to whom a little less, but more important than what we are given is how a person behaves with his health, how aware he is, what decisions he makes, whether they support his health-saving choices or not. The choices we are going to make at an early age, such as physical activity, healthy diet, risky behaviour, drug abuse, mental health, affect our livelihood and health at a later age. The healthyness of every individual person is converted into both personal money (for example, it is influenced by the payment of own participation, the use of paid services or reduced income, if work has had to stay away because of health) and by all of us, or the money of health care. People's choices affect the amounts needed for healthcare at national level, treatment queues and the need for support services, from aids to care, across sectoral boundaries, from healthcare to care. Changing health-related behaviour is, of course, not easy; it is a process that requires effort, time and continuity. There are no uniform and simple solutions. Yes, awareness-raising alone is not enough; individual actions alone are not enough; it is not enough to pump resources alone; it is not enough to feel the stomach. However, I do not want to say that the order of treatment depends solely on people's behaviour, that would be an oversimplified approach. There is a need for each level to fulfil its role, not only people but also educational institutions, municipalities, employers, family doctors, hospitals, emergency departments, etc. If we focus only on health, on this level, when we talk about the order of treatment, then we have lost the fight. How, then, can we reduce the number of treatments today and in the future? I'll bring out three points. Firstly, support and promotion of health behaviour, disease prevention and early detection, and immediate intervention. In future Estonia should be popular with the view that it is good to be healthy. Looking at the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, we see that we spend about 4% on prevention and 96% on treatment. These numbers are eloquent. In the longer term, there is a need for significantly more resources to be directed towards prevention so as not to engage in an expensive and often ineffective fight later on. However, prevention is not only a matter of funding for the Health Insurance Fund, but, as I have already said, it is a much broader issue that extends from kindergarten to employers. If we start to behave in a healthy kindergarten, then this must also be continued at a school where, for example, the best specialists in your field could come to talk. You can't get over or around the work environment and the employer's wager. Secondly, more efficient use of money in healthcare. This requires a reorganisation of the hospital network and a substantial strengthening of the primary, or family, medical system and further development of so-called e-services and personal medicine, in which we are already in the way of other countries. Our health care is currently on the verge of specialist medical care, it is like our historical heritage, but it is necessary to get out of here and move towards strengthening the first level, modern medicine, using all the information technology solutions that are helpers for both people and doctors. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U111	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U112	However, to achieve all of this, there is a need to significantly reduce red tape in the activities of healthcare providers. In order to ensure better quality of health care, it is necessary to make the system of qualification of doctors compulsory again and to establish liability insurance for ill-treatment. Of course, when financing specialist medical care, we need to move from a "procedural financing system" to "promotional funding" aimed at motivating doctors to assess and approach people in a holistic way. Perhaps successful treatment is financially more motivating than just case-by-case treatment. Thirdly, access to healthcare. To improve this, the health system should increase the revenue base for health expenditure (wage payments) so that we are not so critically dependent and vulnerable to the economic crisis and population ageing. It is necessary to increase the ratio of health care providers, i.e. to alleviate labour shortages so that doctors are not overworked and tired, in order to improve their performance. There is a need to train more family doctors and shift the focus from a narrowly disease-based approach to multidisciplinary skills development. However, in order to improve access to healthcare, it is important to have a much better pre-section so that the patient can get to the right doctor at the right time, i.e. who and when it is possible, for example, to go to the emergency department. In addition to the pre-selection, more money is, of course, needed to improve accessibility. Today's 6.5% of GDP does not make it possible to cover all costs, and our goal should be the European Union average, or about 9.5%. However, with limited resources, it is only wise to channel these additional resources into an effective system, because without structural changes, there is no point in putting more money, and the treatment queues will not be shortened. In addition, we need alternative sources of income, for example, alcohol duty could be diverted to health care and, on the other hand, temporary disability sheets or hospital box costs could be diverted from health funding, for example. Perhaps more money in healthcare from more sources and non-health expenditures out of health expenditure. So, more health and keeping it for all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-22_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, at the end of the Riigikogu debate, we do not take a decision, but obviously we all agree that the thoughts and information that have been heard here today will add to the information of the MPs by the time it is possible or necessary to take the relevant decisions. More than possible, be healthy! Closure of the sitting at 1.05 p.m.
