ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and guest. We will begin the session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 7th working week on Thursday. But first of all, I'm happy to congratulate Hardi Volmer, who has a birthday tonight. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]] Now, let's go to the billing and debriefing. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U2	Good morning, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I will refer the question to Mrs Riina Sikkut, Minister for Health and Labour. The issue is the situation of rare pharmacies. As we know, 55 branch pharmacies closed their doors for half a day on 29 October to point out that, as of 9 June next year, these pharmacies will have to be closed in accordance with the current pharmaceutical law. This problem has raised a great many questions, namely six. For example, the current law has not allowed wholesalers to transform branch pharmacies into general pharmacies for a period of five years, as referred to in the explanatory memorandum to the above-mentioned draft law. How many branch pharmacies belonging to wholesalers have been able to turn into general pharmacies after the legislative changes? Also, for what reasons has the Ministry of Social Affairs refused to correct the law at that time? Does the Minister think that reducing access to medicines can be a game of human health? Also, has the Ministry ordered or prepared an analysis of the availability of pharmacy services in cities after the closure of branch pharmacies? Also, how do local authorities who organise public transport view the closure of branch pharmacies? Also, has this issue been discussed with older and disabled organisations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Incoming check, please! 73 members of the Riigikogu are present, 28.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U4	We go to the agenda on Thursday, 8 November. There are two points on the agenda. The first of these is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõmme, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U5	Mr President! Good ambassadors! Before the big summer, on 13 June, I stood right in front of you in this remote area by passing the draft law amending the Law on Social Benefits for Disabled Persons, which is now number 663. This bill is laconical and simple in its form and content. It consists of only one substance parameter and aims to increase the allowance for children with disabilities to the level corresponding to the actual extra costs of disability, as suggested in the shadow report of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. What am I talking about? If the bill receives your support in this hall, the social benefit for a child with medium and severe disabilities will double as compared to today, and the benefit for a child with a deep disability will triple. Since the allowance for a disabled child has not been raised since 2006, i.e. for a whole of 12 years, there is no point in doing so by playing with minimum amounts, but should be increased considerably and significantly. Let it be said here that we do not want to increase subsidies simply in financial terms. That is not the immediate purpose of this bill. In fact, increasing support is only a means of achieving the desired objective of helping families raising children with disabilities to cope better in psychologically but also economically often very difficult situations. The birth of a disabled child to a family or the appearance of a disability at a later stage of the child's life is always unexpected. No man is prepared or prepared for this, and no man has collected a small reserve for this sort of thing, just in case. Inevitably, every parent needs help and support to cope with it, even in cases where they do not know how to ask for it, do not want or do not dare, as often happens. Thus, the broader and real aim of our draft is to give parents of children with disabilities a clear message that the state values their contribution and care, notices them, provides a helping hand to make it a little easier for them to do everything they are expected to do, and that in the future, as a child grows up, they will be better able to cope and social success. It must be borne in mind that these children should be able to cope equally with other children in their daily lives, as far as possible. Compensation for additional costs due to disability also contributes to the learning and working of a disabled child and also helps to meet the objectives set out in the rehabilitation plan for a child in need of assistance. But now, closer to the bill. The draft consists of two paragraphs. With § 1 of the Bill, we wish to amend subsections 1 and 2 of § 6 (5) of the Social Benefits Act for persons with disabilities and to do so in such a way that the allowance for an average disabled child is EUR 69 and EUR 8 instead of 4 cents, i.e. the current 270% of the social benefits rate would be replaced by 540%, and the allowance for a disabled child would rise from the current EUR 80 and 55 cents to EUR 161 and 10 cents. The allowance for children with deep disabilities would rise from 80 euros and 55 cents to 241 euros and 65 cents. These increases are linked to social benefits rates. It seems complicated, and sometimes it is unclear why the game takes place around some percentages, or percentages, of the social benefits rate, rather than talking specifically about rounded sums. Let it be said that in 1999, when the Social Benefits for Disabled Persons Act was adopted, the benefits were linked to the rate of social benefits, which is approved by the Riigikogu each year with the state budget. Obviously, the founders of the law had good will and hope that the social benefits rate would be increased during the state budget procedure. Today, however, we know that this has not really been the case, and the level of social benefits has not been raised in the state budget since 2006. This amount was 400 kroons in 2006 and after the changeover, the social benefit rate was rounded up to 25 euros and 57 cents. This is where the decimals come from. Thus, in 2018, the social benefit rate is still 25 euros and 57 cents, which means that the social benefit rates have been maintained in the same way since then, including the disabled child allowance at 270% of the social benefit rate and the child allowance at 315% of the social benefit rate for a severely and deeply disabled child. You may have a logical question as to why we did not then propose a change in the rate of social benefits in the state budget. That would be very logical, so we would automatically increase the allowance for a disabled child. Very logical. I'd be happy to ask that myself, if that were possible. Why did we start playing with the percentages? We have considered very seriously whether to increase the level of social benefits, but here there is concern that social benefits are not only linked to social benefits for disabled children, but that there are still a number of social benefits. I would like to mention a few: the allowance for disabled persons of working age, the allowance for disabled elderly persons of old age, the allowance for disabled parents, the allowance for students with disabilities, the supplementary education allowance for disabled persons, etc. Perhaps we did not want to increase all the social benefits provided for by the Social Benefits Act for people with disabilities, but to deal specifically with the most painful place, namely social benefits for children with disabilities. For example, support systems for persons of working age with disabilities have already changed significantly. Of course, ideally, we can see that subsidies could be decoupled from social benefits in the future, made round and understandable, and linked to so-called indexation, so that we do not forget some support to the same level for 12 years. With § 2 of the draft, we simply set the deadline for the draft to enter into force, the draft would enter into force at the same time as the 2019 State Budget Act. I will explain in the following what are the reasons that we submitted the draft. Why did we do that? When the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities was adopted in 1999, it had a noble objective: to partially compensate for the additional costs of disability and to support the self-sufficiency of disabled people, social integration and equal opportunities, and to encourage learning and employment. All of this, as I said, through partial reimbursement of additional costs. In addition, the law states that the disabled child benefit is paid every month to the average, severe and profoundly disabled child to compensate for the additional costs caused by the disability and for the activities provided for in the rehabilitation plan. These additional costs are costs that do not exist for other children (fortunately, most of the children in Estonia do not have them). Today, 12 years have passed and the support is on the same level, but let us think about what has been happening in our lives and what the increase in the cost of living has been like. According to Statistics Estonia, the cost of living increased by 47.1% over the period considered. That's the reason for our bill. It is this unpleasant finding that the Government of the Republic has not put the matter on the table. At the same time, of course, we have done very much to raise the monthly allowances for the first and second children; we have raised them to multiple: from EUR 19 to EUR 50. Next year, this support will rise to EUR 60 per month. The third child's support has risen 20 times: from EUR 19 to EUR 400. This is a good thing and I am not challenging it at all, but long ago it would be time for us to take a conscious and'very targeted step' towards an increase in support for those in need in order to give families in the most vulnerable situation a sense of security. What numbers are we talking about? As of 1 January last year, the number of children with disabilities was 12896. Compared to 2009, this figure has almost doubled to 7368 children. The proportion of children with disabilities among Estonian children aged between 0 and 17 has increased from 3% to 5.2%. Last year, the average disability allowance was paid to exactly 5000 children (this is not a rounded number, but is statistically the case), to 7164 children with severe disabilities, and to 732 children with severe disability. The increase in the number of children with disabilities is due to the increase in the number of children with severe and medium disabilities. Fortunately, the number of children with deep disabilities has not increased very significantly. Such an increase in the number of children with disabilities undoubtedly results in pressure on social protection and the whole system, because there is a need for benefits and services, but it also has an even greater impact on the livelihood of all their families, some 13,000 families with a child with disabilities. Two studies have been carried out last year and this year on the management of families of children with disabilities. The first was ordered by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Turku Research AS, together with the Estonian Applied Research Centre CentAR, carried out a study entitled 'Study on the subsistence and needs of families with disabled children', which revealed that the assessment of the economic performance of households with disabled children is worse than that of all other families with children in Estonia on average. Of all households of disabled children, only 19-26% sense that they are able to cope easily (the responses were: 'easily', 'easily' and'very easily'). At the same time, among all families with children, there are 40 to 51% of families who can easily cope. According to the parents of almost all disabled children, the household has made special expenses for the disabled child, and no expenditure has been incurred in just 2 to 3% of the disabled children's households. After all, it makes sense that the harder a child's disability, the higher the direct and indirect costs of living and developing a child's daily life. According to the survey, half of the families spend a month on the special needs of an average disabled child of EUR 48.159 and, in the case of severe disability, EUR 60.219 per month. Half of households need a cost of raising a child with a deep disability in the range of €119 to €339 per month, but they can also reach €600. There is more spending on medicines, vitamins, supplements, but in more than half of the cases, households also spend on, for example, transport and medical and rehabilitation services. This money also pays off the so-called own contribution to the consumption of social benefits, such as obtaining a personal assistant. This is often provided for in local government regulations. Expenditure on aids for half of children with disabilities is spent in households, but the biggest expenditure is of course related to special food, which amounts to EUR 80 per month, but in some cases the amounts are also much higher. These are therefore quite variable costs. According to a study commissioned by the Ministry, parents of disabled children carried out their own research. They did so even more specifically and asked which tools, which services parents spend on. More money came out of it than every family spends. I have some monthly family cost statements. They have written down fixed costs, daily costs, diffuse costs, future costs, etc. These sums really are, if you look at them, the kind that cause distress and ask how these families cope. As a result, families of disabled children are often at a much greater risk of poverty than normal, fortunately healthy families. In 2015, the relative poverty rate was 18.5% for the population aged 18 years and 26% for the families of children with disabilities. I think that, for the time being, is enough to explain why we made this change. On 27 July this year, the Government sent its opinion on a draft which did not support the draft in its proposed form, but it is pleased to note that the Government of the Republic understands the comfort and seriousness of the situation and considers it important to deal with the matter, but on these terms and according to their imagination. I'm going to read a sentence here. They consider it important to address the issue in the preparation of a comprehensive analysis of the rules on the payment of allowances to persons with disabilities and the organisation of social services and in the process of drawing up the following national budgets. Let me conclude by pointing out another important document that plays a very important role within the framework of the draft. It is a memorandum from the Cabinet of 21 July, according to which the State wishes to transfer a number of tasks, including funding, to local authorities, in particular through their support fund. These eight tasks include the disability benefit system. This made me very concerned, because it aims to gradually transfer subsidies between 2021 and 2026, as the deadlines for decisions determining disability end. What conclusion can be drawn from this? We deal, says the government, we deal, we analyze and we discuss. We look at the big picture and then we decide why the number of disabled children has increased, why the disability is set on too light hands, etc. The causes and activities that need to be analysed are enormous. I actually agree with all of this. That's all you have to do, every department in charge needs to analyze. My fear, however, is that once again, from this analysis and the working group, this is the most classic way not to deal specifically with one small task today and now. Social benefits for disabled children need to be raised today and now, never in the future, in 2021, 2026 or later. These families exist today, now and now. They live today, they fight every day for their survival, they do the same thing today. They do not have time to wait for all the analyses to be done, all the working groups have done their job, and all the world's improved ideas are already almost applicable to everyday life. It is therefore necessary to increase these grants today and, at the same time, to further analyse and improve the systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U6	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Monika Haukamm, for a very thorough presentation and very precise length of speech. But you also have a series of questions. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U7	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Indeed, a very thorough and credible report. Thank you for taking care of this matter. This is serious. Raising children with disabilities is certainly spiritually and materially very difficult and it is quite clear that this support has slipped into the way of time. I'd very much like to support this bill, but I understand there's been a little bit of a mix-up in cost accounting. Why don't you explain to us what this amendment would cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U8	Thank you for your question. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law on costs indicates the monthly cost. I can give you the exact number if I can find it. This is just under EUR 1 million, rounded up to EUR 981000. It's been mistakenly written as if it was a year's worth. It's actually one month, it has to be multiplied by 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U9	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U10	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'd like to commend you, too, and I want your presentation. It was a very good report. The report was so good, you almost answered my question, but not exactly. Do you think that the government is dragging it over and saying that they are doing their analysis and you are sitting there in the Riigikogu and wait until we arrive with our wise decision, is a typical pause policy for this government, or do you think that they have a special unintended approach to dealing with this subject and that they have a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U11	Thank you for your question. Since I'm not a member of the government, I don't really know the inner and soul life of the government. However, given that this is a 12-year period, it is likely that a number of governments will have to share responsibility. We could have changed that too last year; in fact, it could have been changed in 2010. I'd rather not be looking for someone so responsible or guilty. The question is simply that there may have been other issues, there has been a need to increase the benefits for all children, which were equally and over a longer period of time. Is this a pause policy? I can agree with that, because if there had been a will, it would certainly have been possible to do so earlier, last year, or it could have been raised next year in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U12	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I also fully agree that the issue you have raised, and this draft, is very relevant and that this problem really needs to be resolved. But I also had a question about that. As you know, there is such support as the support of a single parent child. We know that only one parent often stays in a family with a disabled child, unfortunately that is the case. Did you have any mention of this support during the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U14	Thank you for your question. Yes, statistics support this claim to some extent. When a disabled child is born into the family, it is a very difficult situation that affects the family economically and, above all, psychologically and mentally. People's coping mechanisms in difficult situations are very different, someone takes and starts fighting, but no one can fight. Looking at statistics, we can really see that there are more single - parent families in families with a disabled child, that is true. But in the framework of this draft, we did not specifically address it, because here it does not determine whether there is one parent or two parents in the family, it is a question of a disabled child and the allowance is paid for the child, not whether the parent is raising him alone or raising him alone. But if a mother or father is raising a child alone, of course, different measures must help to cope with this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U15	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U16	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A good waitress, a very constructive presentation, and out for the right thing! As I listened to the presentation, I had the thought and the question that these costs would probably increase from year to year.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U17	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U18	But the question is, it's interesting what's going on. Any thoughts on that? Very strange, Estonian society is then very sick because we have a very large number of people whose ability to work is decreasing, in some areas of Estonia half of them are, and now more and more children are born who are severely disabled. Can you make any sense of that? I don't think there were any studies on that, although a number of studies were mentioned in your report. So what's the matter with this number growing up like this, you know anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U19	Thank you for a very relevant and legitimate question. Yes, it was not possible to address this subject in the limited time of the presentation. Indeed, the number of people with disabilities is increasing from year to year and not only the number of children with disabilities, but also the number of people of working age and retirement age with disabilities. Are there more disabled people in Estonia than in the European Union on average? Not too much. Yes, the percentage of people assigned to a disability, 12 to 13% of the population, is relatively average for Harju, a little above that. Therefore, we are not very sicker than other countries, or we do not have more people with special needs. However, national statistics are not comparable, as the methodology varies widely between countries. There are several reasons why there are more children with disabilities. This is due to the assessment system, whether it is easy to obtain a decision to assign a disability. Similarly, it is because our medicine is developing and more and more children with very deep disabilities and prematurely born children survive. We have better medicines, we have better skills, and that means we have more children, which on the one hand is a problem, but on the other hand, it is a great pleasure for the family when the child lives. Medication and our rehabilitation system, or this whole evolving world, will change that. In addition, we may also be able to assign trees to those children who used to be said to be lazy, poorly reared and misbehaved. Today we say that they are perhaps children with a developmental disorder or behavioral difficulty, which is why they are given disability. Perhaps changed times and changes in systems will certainly increase this number. But you can't say that there's one reason why this number is increasing, but it's a complex.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U20	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U21	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you also for a very interesting presentation. You're a real expert in this field. I want to ask you about the variable costs you mentioned in your speech. There were three categories: EUR 48.159, EUR 60.219 and EUR 119.339. I would like to know how much, i.e. how many euros, of the actual costs of children with both medium and deep disabilities, would be covered by this legislative amendment. Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U22	Thank you for your question. It is quite difficult to answer how much of the actual costs it covers. Today, I do not dare to claim that this particular degree of disability is the most decisive factor in how much families spend. This may not be the case at all, because it depends very much on where you live, for example. I will give you an example from Pärnumaa. The family lives outside Pärnu. There is no home-care service available in this area, which means that if a child needs to be put in a new cannula on a regular basis and several medical procedures, the nurses in the area will not come home because there are no nurses there. The family regularly orders a home nurse from Pärnu and pays 25 euros for each visit. This child has a severe disability, and it would be included in today's €80 allowance. If a child needs special food, for example, because of an allergy, or worse, if he or she is on a probe, for example, the amounts are very high. However, the most common expenditure is still expenditure on medicines and aids, expenditure on the consumption of various services, for example, covering the own contribution to physical therapy, and, of course, expenditure on special clothing and child development equipment. So I don't know exactly what to say. According to a survey commissioned by parents of disabled children, these amounts were higher than according to a national survey.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U23	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There are very good arguments as to why support for children with disabilities needs to be increased. One of them is the interesting thing that caught my eye here. This concerns the arrangements for allocating aid in 2017, which increased the rental price ten times. To what extent does this increase in social benefits cover this tenfold increase in rent? Or let's say that maybe those tenants get the most out of it, maybe the kids don't get that much?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U25	Thank you for your question. Over the years, the system of aids has been sought to make it better and more sustainable for both people and the state by switching from ownership to rental. If you don't need any more tools, you take it back, for example, you don't have to buy it. It really has created a situation where you have to pay rent every month, a sum of money may mean that you will pay more than if you had bought out this tool. If you acquire an aid instrument and your own contribution is 10%, as is the case with most of the aid instruments, with small exceptions, you will pay the 10%, for example EUR 100, for a more expensive aid instrument, and you will also be able to apply for a reduction in your own contribution to, for example, 5% and ask for help from the local government, and this amount will not be very high. However, if the cost of the same tool is spread over months, such as the use period, which may be 3 to 5 years, you will pay rent each month, which is not very high, maybe EUR 5, but if you save all these sums, it may ultimately be more expensive. It's not always more expensive, but it can be more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U26	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will listen to this debate and I will not be surprised. After all, in 2006 money had a very different value than today, looking at the huge price increases that have hit us and are coming next year. Did the government representative in his letter explain why it is still not possible to solve this problem in the budget for next year, in a situation where the country's economy is in the best position in the last ten years? If you look at the budget, we see that the money is thrown to both the right and the left, although 143 million to Eesti Energia, while 2.5 million to Greece, the Ministry of Finance orders border trade research at tens of times more expensive than what the institute would do. Why? In its letter, did the government explain why it would not be possible to solve this in the budget for next year, why in the future the country will have more financial opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U28	Thank you for your question. I was familiar with the position of the Government of the Republic. They say that they consider support for families with disabled children to be very important, and that is what needs to be done. But the argument was that the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing proposals on the principles of disability policy and the modernisation of services and benefits. Maybe they didn't tell you why they didn't do it and why they didn't do it next year, but they said they were going over the whole system. As I have already said, the memorandum of the Cabinet also states that it is actually because it is intended to end the determination of disability in this way in the future, perhaps at all, and to transfer this support to local authorities. I can't tell you anything else, because I can't see into anyone else, I can only read the Social Ministry's answer. They have said that they have formed a working group to prepare it. It involves the target group, representatives of disabled people and all kinds of experts, and they plan to come to the government at the end of this year with preliminary proposals on how to change the payment rules and which way they want to go. I don't have anything else to explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U29	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U30	Thank you. Dear waitress, What is your opinion on this plan to hand over to the municipalities? Should this improve the situation in this section, or is there some kind of reef already foreseen here, and this system could still remain the same, so that this thing is managed at national level?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U31	Thank you for your question. In itself, the principle of subsidiarity is that decisions are made at a level that is as close to the person as possible, that is, in the local government, absolutely justified and, in fact, logical, because who knows the person better than the local government. He can assess a person's needs and determine whether a person needs support or services. At the same time, it is not quite that simple, and I do not take it with such an easy heart, because then it happens as it is now, when we have about 80 different times, how it has to happen (maybe there will be a little less in the future if the number of local authorities is still falling), but there are certain things that could and should remain the same for everyone. It is my personal view that if we are prepared to pay universal child support in the same way to all children, you might think that in this case the number of these children is quite low and the support of the state should remain so that you do not have to go to the local government to prove anything again. So I'm a little skeptical about this change, I'm a little cautious and, to put it mildly, a little worried.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U32	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U33	Dear waitress, I am very positive about this draft...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U35	... and in any case, I intend to support it. But here's my question. I have now listened to you about the opinions of the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Was there any mention in the Commission or in the preparation of the draft of what year these subsidies would rise if it were to go according to the plan of the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U36	Thank you for your question. Maybe a witch named Nastya would know the answer. I don't know when they'll rise. Looking at this document and the memorandum from the cabinet, I don't think it's gonna go up. If the aim is to partially, gradually transfer these grants to local authorities, then it is up to each local authority to decide how, to whom and to what extent they will be paid. So I think the public support would disappear if it were like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U37	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! If the government has a serious plan to resolve this problem in the near future, then this should somehow be reflected in the country's budgetary strategy, which has been put forward for years. Of course, all this budget documentation has become so complicated today that it is difficult for a member of the Riigikogu to understand and understand without any outside aid. But you have not examined whether the necessary amounts have been recorded in the country's budget strategy on the line of the next few years? You don't have to answer right away, but you might want to find out. Or maybe you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U39	I know that in next year's state budget, which we have today as a draft on the table, it is not. I haven't looked at the four-year strategy, but it's very interesting, I'm sure you should look at it. However, once again, I come to this memorandum, where there is a desire and a proposal to hand it over from 2021. It would be logical to conclude that these amounts have not increased there. The increase can only be estimated by the number of children with disabilities expected to increase, i.e. an increase due to the number, rather than an increase due to the amount. So I haven't looked at the budget strategy, but I'm sure I'll look at it, and if I find anything there, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U40	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U41	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good colleague, waitress! No doubt you are one of the strongest experts in this field, both inside and outside this room. But I'm asking for your one answer. You doubted the role of local governments. The municipality is actually part of the state and the public sector. Shouldn't we still be able to foresee these rules in such a way that all the municipalities have the same way, but the municipality would decide for itself? Another thing, shouldn't Estonia have such standards for a whole range of services? Not only for services intended for disabled children, but for social services in general, there should be standards to ensure that at least a minimum can be reached everywhere in Estonia in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U42	Thank you, good questioner! We know that we have autonomous authorities in our decisions, and the state cannot prescribe much to them, how and what they must do. The Social Welfare Act describes a number of services that local authorities should provide after assessing a person. These are like minimum standards. However, each municipality will specify in its regulations what is contained in the law. It may be done as is good for a person, providing help and support. I do not want to say in any way that all municipalities are now saving on the provision of services to disabled people or children. Absolutely not. We have very good examples, mostly we have very good examples. But there are also examples that we may not be very happy about. For example, the arrangements for the payment of the guardian allowance for a disabled child or the provision of some services are introduced as if they were innocent but at the same time severely restrictive clauses. As far as standards are concerned, I agree with you that in fact, all children, all people across Estonia who need help, should receive the same quality of service or support. Today, it depends very much on what I have used as a 'postal index lottery', which you have settled in, and which is a priority in this municipality, no. 1, 2 or 3. These things are often so simple or complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U43	Member of the Riigikogu Monika Haukamm, there are no further questions for you. Please speak to the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Küti.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U44	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I will give an overview of what the Social Affairs Committee has done to prepare for the first reading the draft Act amending the Social Benefits for Disabled Persons Act 663. We had it on the Commission's agenda on 22 October. Signe Riisalo, Head of Child Welfare Policy of the Children and Families Department, participated by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Monika Haukanõm presented the draft initiated by the Free Party Group in the committee as thoroughly as she did here today, which is why I will not stop at its content, because everyone has already had a very thorough overview of it. What were the Commission's discussions and what was very comprehensively reported by Signe Riisalo on behalf of the Ministry? We first examined and asked whether, at the time the draft was drawn up, it was not wise to decouple this support from the percentage. Perhaps, as I once said, just to remind you of the child allowance, which was also linked to the percentage, was rendered numerically and then, frankly, there was also an increase, unlike when it was linked to the percentage, it had been unchanged for more than ten years. Monika Haukanõmm replied that it had been considered, but then it would have had to make a lot more changes, and right now it was like... It wasn't easier, but it was easier to implement. Signe Riisalo pointed out that the planned cost was EUR 1040000. Today we heard in this hall that it was a month's worth, not a year's worth. Indeed, in the bill it was a year's worth. At the same time, Signe Riisalo pointed out that last year EUR 2 million of funding from the Fund was not used, for which local authorities would have been able to provide assistance to children with severe and deep disabilities through services and indirect subsidies. It is precisely the kind of help these specific children really need, because the needs of children are very different, even though they may have a deep or severe disability, but the needs of them are very different. Only the fact that there is a deep disability may not indicate the size of the need. In the Committee on Social Affairs, no one doubted that the costs for children with deep and severe disabilities were high and that support had slipped over time. Signe Riisalo also pointed out the principle that what is actually scarce or not in local governments and which is little on the part of the state, these are services and suitable places for these children. Only giving money helps little. To a large extent, it would make sense to develop local support for children with disabilities as well as for adults. It's shrinking now. He also introduced the fact that two concept papers with a timetable were going to the government. The first concerns the burden of care and children with severe and deep disabilities and, in part, children with medium disabilities, because in fact, all children who need care would need help through it. The second document concerns the modernisation of services and support for people with special needs; it also talks about duplication of activities in the country and local authorities. Liina Kersna asked that if 2 million euros were left over by local governments, what would prevent them from using this money. Signe Riisalo explained that the municipalities are very different, that some are using this money completely and that it is being used for good reason, some are not being used. The Ministry is working on it. Some municipalities also have few services available to people depending on their place of residence. So it's also the content of these thematic papers to analyze why. Monika Haukanõm wondered when these proposals would come to the government and when there would be changes. Signe Riisalo replied that they would be completed in November this year and that there was a plan to present them to the government in December. It is probably important already in the context of next year's state budget negotiations when we are talking about 2019 and 2020 to reflect this, but first and foremost it must be seen as a whole, not just as spreading money. Jüri Jaanson studied the determination of trees and the number of children with disabilities as to why it would continue to increase. Monika explained this earlier. Indeed, in part it is better diagnosed, better able to explain. Of course, when determining a disability, it cannot be overlooked that there is a difference in the number of appointments in municipalities. This does not always depend on the number of children in the municipality. Although standards exist and there is an evaluation methodology, it is different. Tiina Kangro felt it was necessary to increase the allowance, but it still needs to be done in such a way that it does not motivate families to apply for disability for their children. Very often, it is simply to support economic coping. He noted that perhaps the idea should be to create new family support for families with deep composite trees and very difficult needs for care. It is the same idea not to spread out to everyone, but to focus on those most in need and to support them most, also financially, but above all with services. Financial support alone does not ensure that the child receives the necessary services. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose that the draft be sent to the plenary agenda by today, 8 November, that the first reading be closed, that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days and that the chairman of the committee, Helmen Kütt, be appointed rapporteur. All decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U45	Mr Chairman of the Commission, there are questions for you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! The balance between the various subsidies is strange here, one rising sharply, several times, and the other standing still for 12 years. Not that these subsidies are wrong, far from it, but something's probably methodologically messed up. Monika Haukanõm opened this problem quite thoroughly in her presentation. Now, please tell me how the Committee on Social Affairs intends to proceed with this problem. It is a good thing that you support this bill, that we must move forward in order to solve this problem. However, how can a balance be struck between the various subsidies that could be maintained in the future either by indexation or by some such method?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U47	Thank you very much for your question. I am in a very difficult role in this sense that I would like to respond very thoroughly and in substance. Today I represent the Social Affairs Committee here and I can speak... I'll get to that in my story if you let me finish talking. Yes, the Committee on Social Affairs has indeed discussed, and I have tried to bring these discussions before you too. With regard to the different increases in benefits, yes, also for children with deep and severe disabilities, they increased due to the increase in child benefits, but this was not an increase in disability benefits. Just as child benefits stood unchanged for more than ten years, so, unfortunately, they have also been unchanged for too long. I would be unfair if I said, precisely looking back at the various governments, that nothing has been done for the disabled. The amount of aid, conditions and services that have been created have certainly made life easier for those with a special child in the family. What will the Social Affairs Committee do next? The Committee on Social Affairs is doing this by continuing the debate, now also in the light of the fact that this expenditure is no longer 1 million, just as it was in the original text of the draft text, but 12 million. We will continue the debate. We will also listen to the analysis documents from the Ministry. Regardless of whether this draft would have come or not, we in the Committee on Social Affairs are planning a debate on children with special needs and their families and a presentation of the study. Here the waitress has already used the claim that she is not a witch, Nastya, or a psychic. Me neither. What the Committee on Social Affairs is doing in preparation for second reading and coming to second reading, I can report to you at the moment that I come here on behalf of the Commission with this draft. I'd like to tell you what I think of it, but unfortunately, today it's not a format, but we can talk about it in the hallway after the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U48	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U49	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! You discussed in the Commission that the capacity of local authorities to share available resources is very different, but there has been an administrative reform that should harmonise the so-called competence of local authorities. Have you discussed how to harmonise this level? Probably now that there are fewer parties, the situation is more specific, there are 79 parties, after all there is no need to have a debate with everyone. Is there a plan to work with them in this sense? It's easy to start creating a new system without knowing that maybe it's possible to get the old one to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U50	Thank you. In the context of this draft debate, we did indeed have special needs services for children with disabilities and how local authorities can provide them. I can safely say that this review is still to be discussed in the preparation of the second reading. The Ministry of Social Affairs has very good statistics on all municipalities on how many services are offered and what services they are. Believe me, it is not always the case that a large municipality can do more and a small one cannot. It is very often a question of priorities, and very often it is a question of decision-makers, of whether they understand this problem. I want to recognise organisations with special needs, children with disabilities, who make their voice heard, for example, through the Chamber of People with Disabilities and also at municipal level. There is a need for this pressure and clarification that these services are needed. Because local governments joined, there is still a point where many services, not only services concerning children, but also support for carers, are still in the process of getting access to them. I'll give you an example from Viljandi County. I do not mention the municipality, but it is a joined municipality, where, even though it is already one rural municipality, these former municipalities still have different levels of support, as well as, for example, opportunities for disabled transport or social transport, they are still harmonising them. Maybe it's a little early to tell me if everything's bad or if it's okay because these things are in the process. As in all areas, the awareness of decision-makers is increasing, but also the courage and self-defense of those in need of this service is being strengthened. I certainly want to say that municipalities cannot be taken in the same way and said that they do not want to do so. Those who have done must be commended. We know that the 13 social services listed in the Social Welfare Act are not yet guaranteed by all municipalities. Within the framework of this draft, we will focus primarily on children with special needs, we will also ask the Ministry for this overview, and we will no doubt take it lightly.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U51	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U52	Thank you, President-in-Office. A good colleague on several fronts, now as rapporteur and chair of the Social Committee. Last time, you could evaluate your experience here. You have this experience, especially in terms of organising the social side, as a real maker, decision-maker, head of office and head of government, as well as as as a minister at national level and now as chairman of the committee. I will ask you about the subject that was discussed in the previous question and your presentation. How, when and in what way can we ensure, in the case of services for children with special needs, that there is public responsibility and the same procedure across Estonia, that local governments follow this procedure and that in all municipalities, people who need it receive both services and benefits? I will end by saying that the problem is not just in the municipalities. After all, we solved a national problem here last year when the Constitution had not been fulfilled for 16 years. It was possible to hide it for so long, and only then did it come out. How and when do you think this harmonisation and cooperation could be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U53	Thank you. I will certainly answer your question, but I must also say that this is not exactly the way it was handled in the Commission. There are many different ways to say, solutions and ways to solve such problems. We can give a simple example. We already have 13 services in the Social Welfare Act, which should be available regardless of place of residence. If we look at these 79 municipalities, how many of them can be guaranteed there are also minimum standards introduced, then yes, there are municipalities that offer one or two services, but there are municipalities that offer 13 compulsory services plus a whole range of others that the municipality can always offer. This was also the case with the state's money, with 2 million, some of which were properly exploited by the municipalities, and I would like to say that the city of Viljandi used zero, very well used, some did not use it. Why, what was the reason? These discussions will certainly come in the Committee on Social Affairs. I say in my personal opinion that certain things really should be, these are subsidies that are not dependent on the place of residence today, or also the additional specific assistance that a person needs. You see, municipalities have designated carers for children who are at home with the child, but the care allowance is very different. In Viljandi city, for example, it is 140 euros for the care of children, but there are municipalities where it is 50 euros or 25 euros, maybe there are municipalities where it is 80 euros. It's very different. I cannot say that all of this should pile up a country, and only the country should deal with it across Estonia. Country, it's actually us. After all, the point of strengthening the municipalities is that there is more knowledge on the ground about the help that one mother or father needs so that he can go to work. For example, there are child care application rounds and we see how municipalities apply for it very differently again. One of the strengths of this draft is that it distributes this support based on the severity of the disability and that support is received in the same way across Estonia. The question now is whether this child and this family, depending on their place of residence, will receive the necessary support and service for that child and whether the price of services cannot therefore rise. That's a whole other subject. Tiina Kangro had the idea that perhaps children and families with particularly high needs should have a special look at them, and there should be specific support for them to ensure this. There are children with five or six aids, but there are children who have the same degree of disability, but who do not have any aids.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U54	Honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Kütt, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Maris Lauri, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U55	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group supports the draft. I personally say on my own behalf that it is very good that Monika raised this issue. I, who have not dealt very much with social issues, did not know this problem. I like the approach taken on this draft, because it is one of the grants that, by nature, are actually linked to the need, helping those who really need help. Secondly, it is certainly that the support has stopped for so long that it should be raised. Support for disabled children is certainly necessary, but every grant must be thought-out, considered and justified so that it is those who need it and in a way that reduces their need for assistance. Perhaps the help should not be such that we helped, but the beneficiary does not understand that he has been helped. Sometimes, unfortunately, we do. There was a debate in the Commission, and we have also discussed it in the group. We have some questions that you have already heard here when the members of the Reform Party Group asked. But I'm gonna bring a couple more numbers to Monika's data. Let's look at the number of children with disabilities between 2009 and 2017. The number of children with deep disabilities has fallen by 10% if my numbers are not wrong, the number of children with severe disabilities has increased by two thirds and the number of children with medium disability has increased by 2.2 times. Certainly there are objective reasons for this, but as the previous speakers have said, there are also subjective factors that have increased the number of these children. I have a feeling that we should still understand why this figure has increased and how much this is really due to improved diagnosis skills and how much there is a subjective factor that should not exist. Another issue is what help parents of disabled children really need. No one disputes that if a child suffers from disability, the parent and the family will incur additional expenses, they will also spend more time and may lose their chances of earning income. The question is how we help them, whether financial aid is sufficient, whether there is a need to provide any services, whether any resources are needed. Since the trees are different, the need for help is also different in nature. CentAR's analysis, also referred to by Monika, shows, as expected, that the parents of medium-disabled children have lower financial needs (I would point out that this is the parents' assessment of what they would like or how much money would be needed), they need about EUR 100, for a severely disabled child needs about EUR 120, and for a deeply disabled child, about EUR 200 per month. These needs also vary greatly. What conclusions do we think could be drawn? We should certainly urgently increase subsidies for those who need it most, i.e. for children with a deep disability. We have no question here, no objection at all. In the case of others, however, we wondered how the disability was determined, whether these things were justified and whether the support... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U56	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U57	... an increase is necessarily needed or the amount of it needs to be increased, suddenly this money should be partly spent on the provision of some services. Yes, there are municipalities that, I would say, irresponsibly do not take advantage of the opportunities they are given. I'm really sorry about that. I confirm from my experience in other areas: everything depends on the priorities of the local government leaders. It is a pity, therefore, that those who really should be helped are cold in the hearts of some local government leaders, you might say that they are icy. The third point, which became clear after the draft had been presented to the Commission, concerned expenditure. Let us be honest, 1 million, especially given that we are about to draw up the budget for next year, there would be no insurmountable difficulty at all. Now that we know that the real cost may be over 12 million, it seems to us that we really should be looking at this thing, and if we are not able to come to the same conclusion immediately as to whether or not to increase the support for children with medium and severe disabilities, then we should certainly increase the support for children with deep disabilities. To conclude once again: the Reform Party Group supports this draft and we would like to see its rapid and successful procedure in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U58	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 663. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 663 including on 22 November at 5.15 p.m. We have closed the procedure for the first item on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U59	The second item is the first reading of Bill 667 on the Implementation of the Defence Service Act and Amendment of the Law on the Law of the Defence Forces by the Members of the Riigikogu Raivo Aegi, Ants Laaneots, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Priit Sibula, Maire Aunaste, Uno Kaskpeiti, Arno Silla, Raivo Põldaru, Henn Põlleaasa, Martin Helme, Andres Metsoja, Ain Lutsep, Krista Aru, Artur Talvik, Enn Mere, Jaanus Kariladi, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Mart Helme, Madis Milling, Meelis Mälberg, Peep Aru, Toomas Väinaste, Helmut Hallemaa, Aivar Koka, Hardi Volmer, Tiit Terik, Anneli Oti, Märt Sultsi, Toomas Pauri, Enn Esmaa, Valeri Korbi, Toomas Vitsut, Küliki Kübarsupera and Johannes Kerdi. Please speak to Riigikogu member Raivo Aegi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U60	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is recalled that in the spring we processed here draft law 447 which abolished special pensions for those who, as of 1 January 2020, joined the police service, the military service or the prosecutor's office. In the course of the procedure for this bill, the question arose of defence forces, police officers and border guards, who have, in a sense, been subjected to the unfair behaviour of the state, as it was precisely they who had a reduction in pension payouts due to the 2009 and 2010 economic crisis and due to the pension system at that time. In the course of the 447 procedure, we agreed to remove the part of this historic injustice in order to be able to move forward with the basic ideas, and we also agreed to initiate a new, separate draft law to eliminate this injustice. This is what we've got here today. Today's first reading was the result of the will of all the members of the Riigikogu whose names have just been read by the President-in-Office, 34 of them, but there are certainly some other people in this Chamber who want to support this bill and who can express this will in the course of further proceedings. The 667 bill is relatively short, small and compact in its form, with only one-and-a-half pages in the A4 page, but in its content, the law implementing the Defence Forces Service Act and the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act have a symbolic meaning. The successful processing of this draft restores faith in the justice of the Estonian state in the hearts of many of the police officers, defence forces and border guards who participated in restoring our independence, defying any unpleasantness and repression that could have happened if history had not progressed in the direction we liked. I believe that most in this Chamber remembers the beginning of the 1990s when organised crime gangs tried to establish a dictatorship in the country, almost every business sector taxed the racket, the situation on the state border was extremely intense as a result of frequent provocations by the Russian side, and the defence forces were almost powerless compared to today. Nevertheless, many men and women began to defend and put their country on its feet. Now, in the country's 100-year anniversary festive speeches, we hear quite often the recognition of these people's contributions, but at the same time we have hurt many of them in terms of material security of retirement. The initiators of the draft law want to remedy this situation. Now look at the substance of the draft. As a preliminary point, it must be recalled that, in the context of the economic crisis that began, the Government of the Republic decided on 1 July 2009 to reduce the total level of public sector wages by 8%. This step was accompanied by a promise to restore the previous level of pay after the end of the recession. It is true, in itself, that such a promise is not fixed by any document or official act, but is communicatively made. Who at the time worked in the public sector or was interested in this work should remember that promise. However, the consequences of this step, the same 8% reduction in the grade wage, were the consequences that we face in this bill. In particular, the new version of the Defence Forces Service Act, together with the Implementation Act, entered into force on 1 April 2013 and on the same day new wages of 50% above the average were introduced for the Defence Forces. 13 years earlier, the State had promised the Defence Forces to recalculate the pension with wage changes, but the current system was now replaced by the indexation of pensions, while the basic level of indexation of the pension for retired Defence Forces before the legislative amendment was maintained due to the 2009 economic crisis. The same 8% reduction in grades in the public sector automatically reduced the pensions of members of the Defence Forces as they were linked to wages and, together with the reduction in wages, the pension was automatically reduced. On the basis of the same level of pay, the pension is also granted before 1 April 2013 to members of the Defence Forces who had acquired the necessary seniority to obtain the pension but who had not yet completed their statutory age. Police officers who had retired before 1 January 2010 faced exactly the same situation. As of 1 January, the Police and Border Guard Act came into force and formed a unified office, one office, one roof was occupied by the former police department, the Border Guard Board and the Citizenship and Migration Board. Before 1 January 2010, police officers retired under the provisions of the Police Service Act and, like the Defence Forces, the pension of police officers was linked to the wage system. As I explained earlier, the 8% reduction also reduced their pension. However, in 2010, police pensions were decoupled from the previous system, i.e. wage dependency, and also transferred to the indexation of the pension, as is the case with the indexation of the general retirement pension. However, no indexation took place in 2010 and 2011 and only in 2012 the pension was first indexed with a coefficient of 1,044. This, however, led to a situation where the threshold for the indexation of the pension of retired police officers before the indexation, i.e. the basis for the pension, remained a reduced base as a result of the 8% reduction in wage rates. I am not going to go over this situation again, but the analogous situation also hit border guards who had retired before the entry into force of the Police and Border Guard Act on 1 January 2010 and were calculated on the basis of an earlier law, the Border Guard Service Act. So all of these three offices, police officers, border guards and defence officers, were essentially hit by the same fate by the decision adopted in 2009, when it was decided to reduce the grades of people working in the public sector by 8% to support the state budget. Since at that moment the pensions of all the listed agencies were linked to the salary, so-called salary scales, when the salary rose in the grade list, the pension also increased, when the salary decreased, the pension decreased, as a result of this step their pensions decreased. However, as a sort of vile move, it was decided to decouple pensions from the scales at the time when the pensions were reduced. After the recession, wages began to rise again, but these people's retirements were not affected by this increase, since in the meantime it was untied from the scales and over-indexed. The base was the lower pension, as I explained earlier. It is important to point out another point here. When the pension was reduced for the members of the Defence Forces, the police and the border guards in connection with the massacre, the old age pension, or pension, was not reduced in other areas. During the recession, people received pensions in exactly the same form as they had received before the recession, and, of course, when indexing took place, it rose. So here too, one such aspect of injustice is clearly present in this whole process. All in all, this is the content of the draft: historic Finally, I would ask my fellow Members to support the draft so that we can end this situation where the men and women who once, in the first few years after our independence, started to recover and protect our country with enthusiasm and who, today, have retired (many of them have already left us), this fist would come out of their pockets and would no longer have a fist and bitterness for its country and its decisions would no longer exist, but we would be able to resolve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U61	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U62	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The Commission's discussion revealed a conflict. In fact, the government does not support the draft, the Commission again thought it could solve the problem. What do you think's gonna happen to this conflict? Is there a risk that this bill will stop because of this conflict, or is there still hope that the objective will be met?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U63	Yes, the government was timidly opposed. They weren't very strongly opposed, but, well, they were basically opposed. After all, the argument of opposition was not direct; rather, it was said that some groups might develop in certain areas of life, who also feel that they have been treated unfairly in a certain sense, and they are also going to pursue their right. However, when I asked who they might be, judges were brought as an example. I said, "But when was the pension system for judges untied from the pay system and transferred to indexation?" The answer, if I remember correctly, was 2016 or 2014. By that time, however, the salaries of the judges had certainly reached at least pre-masusian if not higher. So I didn't think it was a problem. The second argument put forward was that even those who retired immediately after 1 January 2010 had not by then fully recovered their pre-masculine wages, which had been reduced. Some may have, some didn't. Here's the debate place. After first reading, these issues may be discussed within the time allowed for the amendments to be tabled. In the present case, it is based on the fact that those who were retired before the adoption of the new law could no longer do anything to change their situation or situation, they were faced with the fact that there was one system before, that when they were retired another system had to take precedence, that they could no longer take a decision, but those who were still working in these agencies on 1 January 2010 had the opportunity to continue working and wait for the government to fulfil its promise and restore those salaries that were before the recession. It is clear that every economic crisis will pass and the good times will come. A person who knows nothing about the economy also knows that the economy is cyclical. A couple of years of waiting and further working would certainly have paid off in order to restore their previous salary or even improve their pay position and to retire from a significantly better pay base and move on to indexation. Those were the main arguments, and that's all I read out of that argument. More than that, we have set a target for the draft to enter into force on 1 January 2019. Of course, we handed the draft to the Riigikogu at the end of the spring session. It was then hoped that progress would be made more quickly and that the additional resources needed could have been dealt with in the course of the 2019 state budget procedure. Today we know and we all realise in this Chamber that it is clearly no longer possible to do so in this budgetary procedure. I think that the next real transition phase could be 1 January 2020, unless, in the meantime, it is decided that additional opportunities will be found in the reserve or elsewhere. If so, of course it can be done in half a year. But it would certainly be possible to implement this system and review people's pensions from 1 January 2020. This is, in fact, a sufficient time for the authorities to make thorough additional calculations of who is covered and how to develop this system, and, once again, to make the necessary changes to the state budget. I didn't mention it, but as of today, the monetary order that may be required for this draft to enter into force is 2.5 to 3 million. Given that our state budget is over 10 billion, it is not an additional need, 3 million in the middle, significant or insurmountable, so that the state cannot make that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U64	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Raivo Time! It is not often the nice literary figures you used here today: 'Fist in your pocket'. Does this bill result in an increase in justice in the country, which you probably meant more than a real fist in your pocket?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U66	Yeah, it was a figurative figure, but we all understand what it means. I have, and I think that many people sitting in this Chamber, perhaps sitting in front and behind, have certainly met and talked to those who are under the influence of the so-called bill and are very quick to express their disappointment, criticism and bitterness. Indeed, I would like our former colleagues, whom we very much appreciate, not to walk around, figuratively speaking, with a fist in their pockets, but to say that yes, now the state has been fair to us and we are very pleased with this decision, so justice is really on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U67	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As one of the initiators of the bill and an ardent supporter, I ask what happened then. Where did these obstacles arise that the draft transferred before the summer holiday will only reach the first reading when there is a fear that it will not be possible to implement it from 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U69	Yeah, well, the committees have their own work plans. Of course, as I myself am a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the initiator of this draft, I have talked to the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs several times about it, but then the work plan or schedule has been so tight that it did not arrive sooner. But now the result of the law has come to fruition, within seven weeks of the delivery of the bill, he must arrive at first reading. Now he has arrived here and can only hope that progress will be smoother, because we can see that there is a cross-party consensus on this draft. Members of all six political groups of the Riigikogu have supported this draft and signed the decision to initiate it. So I think that if at least the coalition parties can explain this position sufficiently well and intensively to members of the government, today the situation is not yet so time-critical that we will not be able to deal with this bill with the composition of this Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U70	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U71	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have a practical question. Perhaps I would have even signed the bill if I had seen and heard that such a bill was circulating, because I too consider it to be a very correct principle. But you, as one of the representatives of the initiators and a speaker here today, have you made such a fine thing as an amendment for the second reading of the state budget to find money for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U72	I have not done so because the draft law is only at first reading and I think it would also be premature to make changes to the state budget procedure if there is not yet a law on which to rely. As I said, we handed this draft over to the Riigikogu in the spring, and if this process had taken place at the maximum speed, it would certainly have been possible to adopt this law and propose amendments to the state budget in the course of this procedure. Yes, it would certainly not have been possible to do so in the process of dealing with the country's budgetary strategy. But as I said, this is not so colossal, we are talking here about an extra need of the order of 3 million a year. Changes to the state budget of this size can also be made during the process, which do not necessarily need to be reflected in the national budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U73	Dear waitress, Riigikogu member Raivo Aeg, there are no further questions for you. Please speak to Uno Kaskpeiti, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U74	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you an overview of the Legal Affairs Committee. The session was held on Monday 22 October and was attended by Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Mati Raidma, Olga Ivanova, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomas. Mare Jõeorg, head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Susanna Jurs, legal adviser to the Legal Department, Major Toomas Unt, Deputy Head of the Defence Service Department of the Ministry of Defence, Legal adviser to the Human Resources Policy Department of the Ministry of Interior, Svetlana Master, and Adviser to the Department of Public Administration and Public Service of the Ministry of Finance, Kaidi Meristo. I will not repeat the report by Mr Aeg, because here he spoke much more fully on this subject. Of course, the last thing I could say is that this amount is around EUR 2.5 million, up to 3 million a year, and it is decreasing in size because the changes target older people. Mati Raidma referred to the principle of legitimate expectations by asking whether, when the amendments in question enter into force, the persons concerned would be paid the difference due to the pension less paid in the meantime. Raivo Time answered that question in the negative. Mati Raidma asked whether, on the entry into force of this draft, the persons concerned would be able to bring before the court the payment of the difference due to the less paid pension on the basis of the principle of legitimate expectations. Raivo Aeg's answer was no. Svetlana Meister, Adviser to the Human Resources Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, said that the initiators of the draft proposed to align the pension rates of the Defence Forces and Police Officers with the wage rates that were in force before the 2009 wage reduction, but the Ministry of the Interior estimates that the police officers who retired after 2010 were also affected. Raivo Aeg admitted that the so-called framework of the draft should be determined with certainty and that it should, in his opinion, be limited to those police officers who had retired before the switch to indexation, i.e. before 2010, and those members of the Defence Forces who had retired before 1 April 2013. Susanna Jurs, legal adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, explained the government's opinion that the issue of recalculating pensions has been discussed at all levels of court and, in the course of legal proceedings, the Supreme Court has failed to initiate constitutional review proceedings for both target groups because it has considered the current procedure to be constitutional. Nor is there any financial resources available in the state budget for the changes requested by the draft. Külliiki Kübarsepp indicated that in the opinion of the Government of the Republic on this draft certain estimates were made, however, on the impact of the law on the defence budget. He asked what they were based on. Mare Jõeorg, of the Ministry of Social Affairs, replied that the calculation had been made for one change, but no calculations were made for those members of the Defence Forces whose term of service had been extended beyond the prescribed age. Major Toomas Unt, Deputy Head of the Defence Forces Department of the Ministry of Defence, explained that there is no separate financial cover for the changes and cannot allow the increase in pensions provided for in the draft to take place at the expense of today's and future employees' payroll fund. Kaidi Meristo, adviser to the State Administration and Civil Service Department of the Ministry of Finance, stated that it is open to funding for the planned change. That concludes the discussion. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today (consensus), that the first reading be closed (by 9, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions), that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 22 November (consensus) and that I, or Uno Kaskpeit (consensus), be appointed as rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U75	Thank you. You have at least one question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. I couldn't help but notice from your review that the officials of almost all ministries were against this bill. Did you discuss with each other in the Commission how to justify this kind of opposition, how to overcome it and how to end it so that the result would still be positive? After all, the goal really is to make justice work, at least on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U77	Yes, that is what Raivo Aeg said or confirmed that all the representatives of the ministries opposed. We did not discuss it any more because there is no point in discussing it with people who are fundamentally opposed. I am sure that it will be possible either to find resources or to introduce it from 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-08_U78	Thank you, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. No callers. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 667. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the draft 667 amendments, including at 16 a.m. on 22 November. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! Thursday's session is adjourned. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 11.44 a.m.
