ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Monday of the 10th working week of the VIIth plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U2	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to pass on an inquiry with the signature of 13 members of the Riigikogu to Minister Kadri Simson. You can certainly guess the subject, good fellows in the Riigikogu, is the ferry traffic between the mainland and Hiiumaa. When several different April jokes were made yesterday across Estonia, this black gallows sounded more like that from the giants. When the shipping company began to warn early that it would be on the ferry on Saturday instead of leaving the trip on Sunday, the giants rightly questioned whether they should all leave the island. Indeed, a dignified, secure, continuous and seamless ferry connection between Hiiumaa and the mainland is, in the opinion of the signatories, a self-evident obligation for the Estonian state. For Hiiumaa, the connection to the mainland is a matter of vital importance. How has it now come to a situation where this Community is not guaranteed, whether it could have done better and what is planned in the future, the signatories have seven questions to consider. The most amazing thing is that, as far back as autumn 2016, marine scientists said that at least twice a year this situation must be taken into account, that water levels are falling and that problems may arise when travelling to Hiiumaa, nothing happened in this direction last year. Everyone knows about the problem, but this problem has been ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U3	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is proud of its islands. Estonia should be equally proud of the well-functioning connections that link islands and the continent to equal opportunities as a whole. This is almost the case in good days, but the last year's transport disruption between Hiiumaa and the continent can no longer be blamed solely on weather and climate warming. The Reform Party will also report an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Mrs Kadri Samson. Namely, in Mrs Samson's jurisdiction, all the relevant institutions, including the Maritime Administration, the Port of Tallinn and the Saarte Lines, have never concealed objective circumstances relating to the depth of the sea, yet Hiiumaa has been delayed for too long. I will give just one example. In May 2017, almost a year ago, Minister Simson responded to the Riigikogu, more specifically Kalle Laanet, convinced that the ferries themselves would deepen the Rye Canal and that he did not see the need for deepening in 2017. At the same time, it was already known that problems would arise in the autumn and winter. In this regard, we have a series of questions for Minister Kadri Samson. Let's hope they get quick answers. However, the Chinese expect the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure to reach Hiiumaa as soon as possible. There's such a literary figure that, uh, these are overseas things. This situation is no longer beyond the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U5	The inquiry has been correctly submitted by the members of the Reform Party Group. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have any questions, I have an answer. This is the answer to the question of who is the best member of the Special Committee on Security Oversight. That person's name is Hanno Pevkur. He has been the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice, and this list could be continued. Thanks to these agencies, he is ideal for overseeing security agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U7	What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U8	Ah, I actually have to submit this reply in the form of a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which I am now doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U9	This is the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' as representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U10	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates two draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, amending the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement. The Government of the Republic is represented by Sven Mikser, Minister of Foreign Affairs, when this bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws. Thirdly, the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali'. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik in the proceedings of the aforementioned two drafts in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U11	I have adopted four drafts and two referrals, and we will forward them to them in accordance with our own rules of procedure and rules of procedure. Incoming check, please! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 10th working week of the VII plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, there was no one against and there are 1 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U12	The first item on the agenda is an inquiry by Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Artur Talvik and Monika Haukamm. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U13	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, On 12 February, seven members of the Free Party Group submitted to the Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab an inquiry into the right of villages to change administrative cohesion. During the administrative reform, this problem was repeatedly highlighted in several parts of Estonia, where people felt moving to places where they did not want to move because of new borders and other changes. Such problems were raised at the side of Pärnu, in Sauga, in Amblas, next to Tapa, and in the villages of several municipalities of Põlva County. The only and perhaps the most well-known place where villages also got a real expression of their will in the course of the administrative reform is the municipality of Puka. At the time, there was a reference to the need to complete the administrative reform under the Administrative Reform Act first and it was said that we would not change anything, even though the Free Party submitted a draft law which would have given the Government of the Republic more power in such cases in order to resolve the problem quickly. In many cases, 5000 inhabitants' claims became an obstacle. No one wanted to give up a piece of their territory, fearing that it would be unpleasant. The voice of reason did not sound, although in the case of Sauga, for example, the Regional Commission of Western Estonia already assessed the accession of Tori rural municipality and Sauga in October 2016. I quote: 'When the municipality of Sauga joined the municipality of Tori and Sindi, there would be little sustainable self-government with little internal coherence, the various components of which would be connected by the city of Pärnu. " The only realistic alternative was therefore found to be joining Pärnu. But it didn't come true. I must also make sure in my introduction that we have submitted an inquiry to the honourable minister in mid-February. In fact, the process has also started in the House of Tori Vallavoli, where opposition representatives raised this issue. The electoral alliance was formed there, called Logic Pärnumaa. Mostly it was Sauga and the people of the villages surrounding it, the people of Tammiste and other villages. They brought this problem before Tori's council and, as far as we know, the decision to open negotiations on border changes was taken by 13 votes in favour and 8 against at the meeting of the Tori Vallavoli Council on 1 March. This fear, expressed in the introduction to the inquiry, that the council of the new municipality may not come along to solve the problem, has now been partly removed. At least some process has begun, but this process is going to be pretty complicated, and it's going to take a lot of time. We therefore have meaningful questions for the Minister. The first and most important question is the stage in which stocktaking of administrative reform errors is taking place and whether such an analysis has been carried out at all. I also think that many questions relate to a specific example of Sauga, but there are still examples. After all, the question is how the Government of the Republic will act in the event that the municipalities themselves cannot agree if they wish to change borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U14	Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U15	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs from the Free Party Group! I will answer the specific questions that were raised in the inquiry, and I will also try to take some stock of the subject. After your introductory part, there were four specific questions. First: 'What stage is stocktaking of administrative reform errors? ' First of all, I shouldn't just look for mistakes. The analysis should certainly be carried out and the initial results of the process should be evaluated during the analysis. The reform is relatively fresh and, as I have said, the administrative-territorial reform, not the substantive administrative reform, has ended. Cities and municipalities themselves have made the initial summaries. I would like to highlight the days of cities and municipalities, where there have been very many debates about what has happened in the course of the reform, what has gone well and what has gone badly. I have met local governments and local government leaders on visits to the counties, as well as people from councils, and there have been some assessments everywhere. I would say that, in most cases, the attitude is that there is now a chance to do certain things better, using more resources than has been the case so far. Perhaps some of the problems of local life can be solved precisely by means of larger and, to a certain extent, more capable municipalities. A larger effort is currently the preparation of a set of analysis of the administrative reform. My input to the authors and editors of this collection was that officials, experts and critical observers who carried out administrative reform and were involved. There would then have been a very different set of opinions and an evaluation of the whole process, as well as of the results of the reform. In addition to the collection, a methodology for analysing the level of public services provided by local authorities is being developed. Simply put, we are trying to evaluate the services provided by the municipalities before the reform and to compare them with the services provided by the new municipalities. Certainly, this analysis would like to be carried out periodically in the future so that local residents, including council members, rural municipalities and municipalities, can have an overview of how the services they provide on their territory are assessed. The second question: 'What is the readiness of the Government of the Republic to take the initiative under the Administrative Division of Estonia Act to initiate a change of borders and administrative territorial arrangements? Name the most important places where it is needed. " First, let me tell you a fact. Since the administrative-territorial reform took place, since the local elections in October 2017, neither I nor the government has received any requests from residents, from villages, from any part of the territory to initiate such a change. The Administrative Division of Estonian Territory Act really provides for the possibility that the government will initiate a procedure for the transfer of a part of the territory, i.e., as you mentioned in your question, to change borders. At the same time, the transfer of a part of the territory is the decision-making power of the local government council. The decision-making power of the local government council, the local representative body, must be taken into account, and specific decisions must be taken. The procedure for changing the boundaries of the administrative unit initiated by the government pursuant to § 8 of the same Act will be diminished if the council or councils of the local government unit oppose it. I stress that this is a matter of local life. I know there are problems. If I have been around Estonia, there is still a question in some parts of Estonia whether there should be some sort of intervention. My clear recommendation has been that this should be done at local level first. As you know, according to the law, at least 1% of residents with a right to vote will be able to initiate such a change, and the council will certainly have to discuss it. The Council can do so itself. As the author of the inquiry pointed out, it has now been initiated by Tori Vallavolikogu. I can't tell where it's going. It must be borne in mind that this is not a very easy one-day decision. It is not merely the inclusion of a part of the territory in the administrative territory of another municipality when you consider one of the villages to be another. A specific part of the territory is generally also subject to various property obligations, tax receipts, budget revenue, legal requirements. To put it simply: it must be properly analysed, account must also be taken of the effects arising from the legislation of local governments, and the revenue base must also be considered, which is changing in a particular municipality. In the course of the administrative reform, a number of good examples can be found of the transfer of villages, or parts of territories, from one municipality to another. On the spot, the councils agreed to transfer almost half of the villages of Palupera rural municipality to Otepää rural municipality, Mustjõe rural municipality to Varikvere village and Järvselja and Rõka village to Kastre rural municipality in Tartu county. A total of 26 villages went to another municipality. It can therefore be concluded that a transfer can be made on the spot if there is a serious desire from both municipal councils to do so. So when I have been asked what should be done now, I have said, as the first answer, that the initiative should be done on the ground, and I have also pointed out that perhaps smaller municipalities have a painful view of administrative-territorial reform. That is what the representative of the heirs said, talking about certain parts of the territory. But now these municipalities are bigger. And I think this example of Tori's parish and Pärnu proves that they are prepared to discuss this issue. If it was like a glitch before that you couldn't and couldn't, then now it's definitely going to be discussed. I very much hope that this will be done in depth, that the possible consequences will be assessed, that what should be done in this process will be assessed. And it can still only be done on the ground. I don't think the government should get involved every time. As far as the future is concerned, if these problems remain in the air, it must be assessed whether there must be any initiative from the government, whether there must be any initiative from the legislator to resolve these problems in any other way. At the same time, when this issue was discussed in 2017 with the representatives of local governments' associations and the Chancellor of Justice, it was found that the Government of the Republic should not really interfere in local life decisions in such a radical way. This would be a serious impediment to the autonomy of the local government, at least in normal circumstances. Yes, the situation during the reform was slightly different and certain exceptions were made, but there were not many. One part of the territory was merged in Setumaa and two parts of Kohtla-Järve were merged with Vaivara municipality. These were specific decisions. The third question: 'How do you assess the administrative structure established in Pärnu County, where the settlement units belonging to the contact area of the city of Pärnu were merged with the municipality of Tori and the rural areas located tens of kilometres away are part of the city? ' Sauga, Tori and Are and Sindi city decided to join the administrative reform councils in the stage initiated, i.e. by the end of 2016. At the stage initiated by the councils, i.e. until 1 January 2017, mergers took place on the initiative of the local authorities and with the selected partners, and the government did not intervene in these agreements. Here it is referred to that one is a parish and the other is a city. They have the same rights and obligations in the Estonian self-government system, neither the requirements nor expectations of the type of municipality depend on them. The basic rule was that if, at the stage of voluntary accession, the municipalities agreed themselves, the government would not intervene. I know that folk polls were also conducted, and the people were not happy with the fate of certain parts in some former areas, but, as the law said, the first decision to be joined was still in the hands of the councils. If it was done voluntarily, the government wouldn't intervene. Question 4: "What is the solution if the legitimate desire of several settlement units to change self-governance is contrary to the will of the majority of the council? How do you justify ignoring the wishes of the residents and their daily routine? What, then, must be done? ' As I have said many times, according to the current law, the transfer of a part of the territory is still the decision-making power of the council. Even if the government initiates such a change, the final decision will still be made at the council. It's so under current law. Whether it needs to be changed, I can't tell. We need to discuss this. As I said, no formal request to change the self-governing status of a village or part of a territory has been received by the government or the Minister for Public Administration. If they do, and if there are problems, you have to look at them too. It all depends on the specific case of the parts of the territory and how local councils behave, how they deal with such applications. And then you have to assess whether or not it needs to be interfered with. For the time being, I think we should leave the decisions to the local level. Representatives of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice have also said that if the government wishes to make any such change, this could be a serious interference with local decision-making. If the council decides on the spot that we do not want such a solution, but the government shows itself to be some kind of higher power and says that we are still doing it, I will simply describe the scheme in a simple way, then the question may arise of the violation of the autonomy of the municipality. And then it is up to the constitutional experts, the lawyers, to argue whether such a barrage is acceptable, whether it can be allowed by law. This is a brief answer to all your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U16	Questions for the Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U17	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I drew a little scheme when you described how we have legally regulated relations between local governments and the state when you gave answers. The government is currently based on what the local government wants. At the same time, we have no protection of the person for whom the state and local government are created. For example, when we are talking about citizens' initiatives or surveys, which people in Tori municipality are very much hoping to carry out, they are on the weaker side. They do not have a defence mechanism that should ensure that the survey links the local government. Can't you see in this a violation of rights that people are unprotected in their statements of intent?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U18	Thank you, this is an important question. Certainly the resident must be protected, but just as we have representative democracy at national level, we also have representative democracy at local government level. The only democratic representative body is the council, which has quite a margin of discretion. How can citizens' rights be guaranteed and how many citizens' rights must be guaranteed? Currently, the law stipulates that at least 1% of residents can and must at least discuss such an initiative. The results of the survey are not mandatory. Neither was it mandatory to take into account the results of the public survey in the context of the administrative reform. The problem at the moment is that if such an initiative is taken, the council will have to deal with it. Tori Vallavolikogu decided that these negotiations would be initiated, but in fact a different decision could have been made. The Council may decide within three months that we will still not negotiate. Yes, here we have to think, whose interests must still be protected, is the interest of a group of people outweighing the decision-making power of a democratically elected council? That's the hard question, and I don't know how to give it a final answer. Like I said, there's no official application right now. If these problems arise, the situation will have to be assessed. In Järvamaa, I know, there is such a question upstairs, also within the borders of the current Setomaa rural municipality in certain villages and then the same case of Pärnu. That's all I know right now. I have advised everyone to decide the matter for themselves, and if the issue is not resolved on the ground, then both the government and the Riigikogu must think about whether to amend the law or any other regulation. The Chancellor of Justice has referred, and this is also stated in the regulation, that if people's opinions are to be found, this must certainly be done in the form of a public survey. In the past, the opinion of the people could be found by calling a village meeting because of a bird, five people arrived, and afterwards it was said that the opinion of the people had been clarified. At the moment, the Government of the Republic regulation clearly states that the opinion of the people will be determined by means of a public survey. But this result is not binding on the council, I admit that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U19	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I hope that you, as a former Minister for Social Affairs, have also meant that it is necessary to carry out an analysis or to order a survey of how the new municipalities are dealing with social services, how good it is to have access to the 13 services mentioned in the Social Welfare Act. At present, however, access to the service is very often dependent on the place of residence. This kind of questioning is very important. You can reply briefly either yes or no, whether it is planned to be investigated. The problem still concerns a very, very large number of people who hope to get better social services for larger municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U21	Thank you again for the current question. Yeah, that's the methodology we're preparing. In fact, this analysis should have been carried out during this year, so the methodology should be completed in the first half of the year. Proposals have been made for this. There is a desire to evaluate all the basic public services that the municipality offers, and there are certainly social services among them. I am currently indebted to the answer as to whether all 13 basic services are covered or whether a choice has been made. It's still open. But I'll take that into account, and I'm sure I'll ask the officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U22	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You said in your reply that it would not be an easy decision if it had to be done now. However, as you pointed out, the transition of 26 villages and most of them were the result of rather peaceful negotiations. Perhaps the most famous example is the division of villages in the former Puka rural municipality, but it finally resolved, even though the question was quite acutely raised. And now there are questions that used to be sharp. I have such a question. What makes this all the more complicated? Do you see, behind this, any financial claims, any loans granted to certain parts of the local government? And if you see, how is it best to solve them?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U24	Thank you for your question. In one answer, I really indicated that this process is not so simple that one day we will decide and the next day this part of the territory has already moved to another municipality. These municipalities must certainly analyse the specific situation. As I was referring to, this is a municipal budget, a revenue base, a service. Perhaps certain legislation in local governments is different, adopted under different conditions. In the case of voluntary mergers, all their arrangements had to be harmonised, e.g. the procedures for the provision of social services and the procedures for the provision of educational services. So this job definitely has to be done. It is a good thing that the municipality of Tori is talking again about this particular case and, as far as I am aware, the city of Pärnu has now, at least in the person of the mayor, been able to answer that they are certainly willing to negotiate and find out all these matters in the process. A preliminary work must be done to explain how the movement of a part of the territory affects the government's wallet, legislation and so on. When this job's done, it's gonna be less painful. And, as I said, if such problems arise and they cannot be resolved on the ground, this means both the government and the Riigikogu asking whether something extraordinary must be done in such situations. But I was also talking about a legal dispute, a big question that will arise. You have to answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U25	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U26	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In your introductory statement, you mentioned that a collection of administrative reform was being drawn up. No offense, I may have missed it, but I'm curious how big it is, when it can be read, and maybe who's making it. It is undoubtedly an interesting material, both from the point of view of history and from the point of view of current people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U27	Thanks for asking. An editorial board has been set up for this collection. Its assembly is managed by Sulev Valner, an official of the Ministry of Finance, but a journalist in a previous life, as we know. He was also very active in the process of administrative reform himself, both as an official and as an expert in committees. This collection's gonna be pretty big, I can't tell you the number of pages, and I haven't heard the latest news either. I know that the Editorial College has been together and, in principle, there is a more or less agreed circle of authors from whom these articles are ordered. It was my wish that articles from those who have been critical to all must also be balanced. When we talk only about those who participated and were on expert committees, it was often the people who carried this reform. But the side-by-side look of some scientists, or some critical head of self-government, is also useful. These opinions should also reach this set. But this process is underway. I believe that the collection will be completed this year, somewhere in the autumn, at least so is planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U28	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned that the analysis will probably be completed in the second half of the year, with a more comprehensive review of how the whole reform has gone. You, too, have been actively involved in the process, following the different regions of Estonia. For you now, what are the three main issues that have arisen with regard to this entire administrative-territorial reform? I mean the whole of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U30	Thank you for your question. All I can do is make assessments, and it's really my personal opinion. I have already raised this question when all this administrative reform began to be programmed and the first committees and experts met together. The question was the choice of criteria. I don't want to make such an assessment that something went completely screwed up. I wouldn't say that. Maybe life is making some adjustments, maybe there are some voluntary shifts in some places. Life usually forces logic. One of the things I have been following, and I have also stressed when going to Estonia's regions, is the need to avoid marginalisation. There must be no new outermost regions within larger municipalities. Let's just say the municipal centre can't pull the whole deck on itself. There have been positive examples of previous voluntary mergers that everyone has started to work better because there are more resources. At the same time, in certain places, I think there has been further peripheralisation. Let's just say that in the context of global globalisation and urbanisation, changing borders has had a disastrous effect on some place. I very much hope that the law will provide an opportunity, not an obligation in the municipality or in the city, or at the level of village elders or administrative bodies, to give decision-making decisions downwards if desired. I have warmly advised you to look at the new situation so that the opinions of all parts of the territory, former rural municipalities and also villages are known in all important decisions. When a budget is drawn up, some development documents are drawn up, the involvement of representatives of different parts of the municipality is very important. Development must not be merely in the interests of the local government centre. And it's actually a matter of thought for the future. If we look at the primary results, it is clear that the process should definitely be monitored. I do not know whether the law should be improved, so that the opinion of all parts of the territory is not only indicatively but in some way more forceful. That is certainly one question that remains and which we will probably not resolve in the near future. This is also a question of regional policy in Estonia as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U31	No further questions. Thank you, Minister Jaak Aab! I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, on behalf of the heirs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U32	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, On behalf of the heirs, I am quite satisfied with the answers that Minister Aab gave me from a philosophical point of view. I mean the attitude, the intentions, how it makes sense to do things and in what order. But it does not undo the fact that, at the initial stage of the administrative reform, very many issues were left unsolved, which would perhaps have been easier to resolve than now that we are going to do the after-snatching and correction of mistakes. But it started in previous ministerial times and in some parts, I think, even during the previous government. The Minister here referred to a collection of analyses. I, too, have heard that there is a set of analyses to be carried out on administrative reform, and it was very pleasant to hear from the Minister that a critical view could also be represented there. To be honest, I'd like to propose to Raja Teele myself, or the contribution of the Free Party. We have raised various issues of administrative reform in the Riigikogu. I think over the last year, we've been asking around 20 questions. We raised border issues, village questions, even names questions. In view of the parts of Estonia, we referred to illogical mergers. We also submitted at least three drafts, the content of which was the proposal to give the Government of the Republic more competence in the implementation of administrative reform. One question was the question of the municipality of Setomaa, and it was the only one who finally found a positive solution: it was done. We also offered derogations from the requirement for 5 000 inhabitants. We were of the opinion that the government would have had an apology with more jurisdiction, but Minister Reinsalu is interrupting the minister from listening to my speech! It was clear that the 5000 population criterion was not already met at an earlier stage of the reform. And then the same issue of finding a smoother solution for the villages. In the case of Sauga, was it really necessary, contrary to the position of the Western Estonian Regional Commission and the conclusions of any analysis, to take this illogical step and move it there towards Tori? I agree, on the one hand, with the Minister's argument that moving villages from one municipality to another requires negotiations and that is also a question of the violation of the rights of the municipality if either municipality, for any reason, does not want to abandon a particular village. But, in fact, the whole administrative-territorial reform itself was a major obstacle. This was an exceptional situation in which it was possible to resolve matters in a different way when they were normally resolved. These open holes, which have had to be patched after, are, in my opinion, bad, and they could have been decided more quickly. At present, it may not be as effective or as understandable to resolve these issues ex post. Certainly, everything has been very slow, it has certainly caused people a great deal of problems, and it will certainly be the issue of the violation of rights that arises now in a peaceful situation. It has been our view from the outset that, while there is an administrative reform and an administrative-territorial reform, the Government of the Republic should have taken more responsibility for many issues, but not to extend its hands to the local authorities. After all, decisions were taken at the same time within a firm framework of the claims of 5 000 inhabitants and other claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U33	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U34	Good Chairman! Thank you, too, for my assessment of the Minister's responses. Thank you, ambassadors, who are you? While the Free Party Group defended the draft self-determination of villages here on the verge, the former Ambassador of Sindi noted that you have chosen a party. I had no choice but to answer that yes, we have really chosen half of the party, we have chosen the side of the citizen. Why are we even working in this hall? Why does the executive do their job? Just to think of a citizen, a person, to have a good, reliable relationship with his or her country, with his or her rulers, both at national level and at local government level. In the light of the law on administrative reform, we were expecting a change of attitude in particular. However, as the Minister himself emphasised, this has been omitted, there has only been a change in borders, i.e. an administrative-territorial reform. Now I'm asking when this administrative reform will come. When do we start talking about content? The minister didn't realize how to answer that. Perhaps the administrative reform will also be open to talking about how to give the local person more binding rights and responsibility to be more responsible for their proposals and actions and how to use the greater right to stand up for their own interests in this greater responsibility. It is often said that yes, we have the right to initiate proposals on the basis of the Local Government Organisation Act (KOKS), in short, if at least one 1% of the population agrees. However, it is often said that this is a fine right, but all these bureaucratic requirements, how to formalise it, how to protect and present it, are too complicated for us. The first question is, can we make it easier? If people have come up with an idea or a proposal, they could be able to submit it in the form of a simple return with the necessary number of supporting signatures, for example, to the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, it must be in the form of a bill and it is a little difficult to achieve at local level. The second question, which the Minister should also consider, is that different analyses must be carried out. There is now a major dispute between the government versus the city of Tartu versus the forest managers. But how can we be sure that the analyses that are being carried out will satisfy all interested parties? My question is whether local people, too, have the resources to order proper analyses so that there is a comparison that people can take care of their own interests. Why do I think we need to focus more on people in our thinking? The Minister also pointed out that the administrative reform has triggered further peripheralisation. Our main question is what to do to make sure that people in the country live and deliver and carry on our people and our sex. Perhaps the solution would be to find flexible forms of government, life - styles that would give the people the opportunity to change their lives, not to force people to follow rules that we do not understand. That is why we need to treat the right to self-determination of villages in this Chamber as an inquiry to give people hope and faith that something depends on them too. At present, they feel powerless against the state - 'against' - is not the right word here - that they are powerless in communicating with the state, in communicating with local authorities. We need to get through these barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U35	Members of the Riigikogu no longer wish to negotiate; the Minister also does not wish to negotiate. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U36	And now the inquiry by Monika Haukanõmm, Artur Talvik, Jüri Adams, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Andres Ammas and Ain Lutsepp. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U37	Mr President! Good minister! Good ambassadors! On 15 February, seven members of the Free Party reported to Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu on the organisation of free state legal aid. A little background on this question. Our inquiry was due to the fact that on February 4 Siiri Ottender-Paasma spoke on the 'Actual camera'. A week's story about how the construction bankruptcy master became a partner of the state in the field of legal aid. Artur Fjodorov, the head of the Estonian Legal Bureau, which provides legal aid to the Ministry of Justice, owes nearly five million euros and his creditors do not understand the decision of the state to channel more than two million euros over a period of three years, to be specified in the hands of an indebted entrepreneur. The Ministry of Justice, however, is satisfied with the service. This 'Actual Camera' approach left a very unfortunate picture of state affairs, and this behaviour has also led to astonishment in several legal professionals. This whole process was launched as if with turbospeed or turbo procedure: in December 2016 we adopted the State Legal Aid Act here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. And 36 calendar days after that, the Minister of Justice had been able to issue a decree, confirm the terms of the free legal aid competition and carry out the competition. 36 calendar days later, the so-called competition had also been held! It all happened so quickly that it must have puzzled a lot of service providers and inevitably also the question of why it has been done in this way. Moreover, the regulation makes it very clear that a legal adviser providing legal assistance must have acquired at least a nationally recognised master's degree in the field of study or a corresponding qualification. These people must also have the necessary legal experience. Thus, the fact that the company that won the legal advice competition has not had any lawyers on the payroll at the time was very astonishing, and it is very important to point out that the companies that won the legal advice competition had no lawyers at the time. With regard to the organisation of state legal aid, it left a feeling that it did not comply with good administrative practice, and there has been doubts as to whether the interests of the state are still protected. I would also very much like to hear why the Ministry did not carry out a public tender for such a large volume of services, but preferred a public competition. Alongside the relevant figures, I was also concerned that the Ministry has set up a procedure that enables the service to be provided to more than half a million Estonian residents. We are talking here about free legal aid, which is set at EUR 760000 per year. If you make such an arbitrary division, it turns out that it will be 1.52 euros per person. Similarly, it is incomprehensible why the state must support those with this service, whose income is approximately 1.5 times the average statistical salary, i.e. EUR 1803 in February 2018. Do the Ministry of Justice really think that it is also the people on the EUR 1800 income that the state has to provide free legal aid? Are they underprivileged people covered by § 28 of the Constitution, which says that the state provides assistance to people who are in need? We still have such questions, and we would like answers to them today. We have formalised five specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U38	Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U39	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! I will answer the questions put by the questioners. First of all, why was it not a public procurement, but a competition? The conduct of this competition is regulated by the State Legal Aid Act and on this basis the Ministry conducted the competition. I would like to point out that the Public Procurement Act also provides for the organisation of a competition, not the conduct of a public procurement procedure, because it is not the normal provision of services or the supply of goods. However, this does not mean that there are no conditions or rules for determining the winner of the contest. Secondly, this service is not an advance payment of any kind of money. On the basis of their information, the Ministry pays the winning association for specific activities. The aim of the competition was to expand the opportunities for people to receive high-quality legal advice. Its broader basis is the principle enshrined in § 14 of the Constitution that the guarantee of rights and freedoms is, among other things, the responsibility of the executive state authority. However, we must undoubtedly admit that the realisation of all the other rights enshrined in the Constitution can also be hindered in many cases if people do not have an adequate overview of the nature of their rights in the legal sense. The second question: 'Why did the Ministry not prepare the conditions for a responsible competition that would prevent persons with no background and/or negative entrepreneurial experience from participating in a large-scale public competition? " The Ministry prepared the competition on objective terms. The regulation in question is known as the "target group and legal areas of general legal advice and the conditions and procedures for sharing support to improve the availability of such advice' and was submitted to stakeholders for their opinion at the end of 2016. The draft was not considered to be objective or to be contrary to the principles inherent in the rule of law. The preparation of the terms of the competition is a public process and I stress that the terms of the competition were clearly defined. There were seven main conditions for which proposals are considered to be eligible for competitions, and there was also a clear list of the conditions which the Commission must take into account when assessing applications before taking a decision. In assessing applications, the Commission based its assessment on the following criteria: the hourly rate of legal advice at the meeting, the amount of the telephone mentoring allowance per calendar year, the amount of support for the management of websites per calendar year, the total number of legal advice hours per calendar year, the scope of the information and effectiveness of the legal advice provided. The terms of the competition provided for legal advisers to have the qualifications and sufficient experience provided by law. The Commission assessed the applications on the basis of these criteria and provided its points. He won an application with the highest score. I would like to stress that the competition had also won the joint applicant Kivar & Partners, who has been active in the Estonian legal services market for more than ten years. I would also like to highlight the fact that the legal services office of the applicant who participated in the competition challenged the results of the competition in the administrative court. By a decision which entered into force in February that year, the Court dismissed the appeal. The Court held that it was in the public interest to carry out the competition as soon as possible in order to ensure that the legal advice services for those in need were provided. The court found that the Ministry did not make any weighting errors and the competition was legitimate. It is certainly important that clear and rigid conditions are laid down for the use of taxpayers' funds, as well as control criteria. The Ministry has checked the performance of the winner of the competition both before and after the conclusion of the contract, and it also exercises control over the performance of the winner of the competition, as I emphasised, before making payments. The Ministry has implemented control measures to ensure that the winner of the contest is ready to organise legal assistance for those in need and that the legal advisers in the application are actually prepared to provide legal assistance. Anyone who participated in the competition had to indicate specifically who these possible legal advisers were and of course they had to meet the competence requirements of the competition terms. The officials of the Ministry contacted all legal advisers and made sure they were ready to participate in the counseling project. The legal diplomas of all advisors were also examined to ensure that advisors had the necessary qualifications. After the conclusion of the contract, the cost documents and other evidence were checked before the prepayment was made, the companies that issued the invoices were contacted to ensure that the winner of the competition actually launched the legal advice service. Monitoring of the winner of the contest shall be carried out on an ongoing basis. The Ministry of Justice monitors the conduct of web counselling every week in the Juristtaitab.ee Forum, including checking whether the questions asked have been answered in due time and whether the answers to the questions are appropriate. In addition, the Ministry of Justice has access to the customer management programme of the winner, through which the fact of the provision of the service can be verified. Each month, the Ministry randomly checks the entries according to the customer management program and contacts those in need in order to determine the existence of a customer relationship as well as the satisfaction of the person in need. This is also necessary for checking the monthly payment request. In the event of conflicting, incomplete or incorrect data, the Ministry shall be entitled not to grant support in a specific part. Each month they also call the beneficiaries at random for monitoring purposes, ask whether they have received the service and whether they are satisfied or not. About 800 customers have responded and evaluated the calls, 90% of whom were satisfied with the service. When a person complains about the quality or availability of a service, a person, who has received a particular service, attention shall be drawn to the shortcomings in the provision of the service. If the situation does not improve, the Ministry will be able to cancel the agreement exceptionally. When these problems arose in the public domain, I asked the Ministry's Internal Audit Department to carry out a separate internal audit as to whether the control measures implemented by the Ministry were sufficient to ensure that the aid was used for the intended purpose, or whether it should be supplemented. The assessment of the internal audit was that the control measures implemented by the Ministry were effective and that these elements were not found during the verification. In fact, I wanted to check the information that payments for the provision of this service have been broken by law, for example, in some way without payment of taxes. They didn't find anything like that. Legal advisers are not employees of the recipient company, but provide legal advice on the basis of management contracts. What is important is that companies that have concluded contracts of command are not taxation of remuneration, but the sale of services on the basis of invoices. For all charges calculated, the beneficiaries have drawn up and validated tax returns sent to the Tax and Customs Board. The third question is the fulfilment of the requirement to set criteria for applicants. I can confirm that the requirement for criteria to be met by an applicant under the State Legal Aid Act is met. The application shall contain information on the fulfilment of the 14 criteria. I am not going to read them one by one, but they are mentioned in the relevant regulation. The Ministry's competition committee was convinced of the winner's expected ability to offer legal advice on the basis of the application he submitted to the competition. As I pointed out, the qualifications of the lawyers involved in the cooperation included in the application were also examined. It is also a question of whether free state legal aid has been organised evenly throughout Estonia and whether the residents of Narva and Jõhvi have access to the service. This service was launched on 19 April last year. More than 7,300 had gathered in need as of March 19, this year, with about 200 additional customers each week. On average, legal advice from one person takes about an hour and a half. More than 500 people answered their questions last year through the Juristatab.ee website. Legal assistance is provided to natural persons in all legal matters and in all forms: by consulting either by telephone or by office, both in the online forum and by e-mail. As an important problem, people have drawn attention to the need to help with the drafting of documents. When we prepared in 2015 an analysis of possible future national legal aid models, we decided that the aid would also be provided in the preparation of documents: contracts, letters of intent, correspondence, as well as administration by the authorities. All this work is organised evenly across Estonia, including in Narva and Jõhvi. Legal aid is available in the following locations: Tallinn, Tartu, Narva, Pärnu, Rakvere, Viljandi, Võru, Jõgeva, Kuressaare, Paide, Valga, Jõhvi, Haapsalu, Kärdla and Põlva. A total of 5,179 people were legal aided from April last year until the end of the year. The fourth question is, on the basis of which criteria and justifications the Ministry of Justice has set a rate of 1.5 times the average statistical remuneration as a criterion for the target group of services. This calculated assumption was based on the fact that it is possible to make maximum use of these funds when the hourly rate is such. The annual budget for this year is EUR 760000, and it is undoubtedly necessary to act within this amount. The maximum need should be 20000 per year. The first year of the so-called start-up was essentially three quarters and, in fact, the number of beneficiaries was around 5000. According to this, the amount paid out was, I would stress, that the money was paid only after the service had been provided just over EUR 200000. These criteria should remain within the financial range foreseen for the maximum of this advisory project in the state budget. What was the ministry's analysis and what reasons? In 2015, an analysis of the models of state legal aid was carried out at the Ministry. The overall conclusion was that a large part of the population was left without legal aid for various reasons. I want to stress that this is not a constitutional obligation from our starting point of view to provide state aid in the event of poverty, i.e. social assistance, which is simply a prerequisite in the rule of law for the realisation of people's other rights. Therefore, the Ministry considered it reasonable to set a higher limit: specifically, the maximum rate, as you said, is the gross monthly fee of EUR 1803. It is also true that when I asked the Ministry for information about the gross monthly fee for these customers, I received a reply that it was significantly below this maximum. I would like to say that the introduction of this service has, in my opinion, been a reasonable means of providing people with legal advice. Specific conditions were established on the basis of the logic of the current law by coordinating with stakeholders. Now certain circumstances have emerged with regard to a particular person, but his selection certainly did not result from any favourable position on my part. I would stress once again that two companies came as winners and one company, Kivar & Partners, has more than ten years of experience in legal advice. And the specific people they called in the course of the competition as legal advisers were checked by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U40	Questions for the Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U41	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! There are different questions, but here's what I'm gonna ask you. I understand that the Ministry of Justice has signed a contract with a dealership that has set up a network of legal aid providers. You also said that 2.2 million have not immediately been transferred to this intermediary bank account. My question is: how much of this amount has the state transferred to this company or to these companies for the provision of the service? And you said that 90% of the recipients were satisfied and 10% were not. Can this 10% be concluded that the state also does not satisfy the so-called budget request of these companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U42	Thank you. As I said, in 2017, disbursements amounting to EUR 260000 were made. I would like to point out once again that it is not the case that the Ministry reports this money for one or more years and then checks to see if anything has been done. This system works backwards: the advisor submits his reports, the Ministry checks everything, and after checking the report, he pays for the services provided. And 90% of the people have certainly been happy. I can also say that the rest of the people, these 10% indicated in the reply, either they are more or less satisfied or the service was still in progress and were not able to make an assessment. However, a certain part of this 10% included people who were critical of the service, in which case the Ministry has further assessed this aid. Whether the Ministry has made a suggestion in the case of any specific advice, or simply found that a payout could not be made, I don't know, but I'm not gonna rule it out. In order not to be inaccurate in my reply, I will give you an overview of this later.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U43	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! A maximum of EUR 760000 is foreseen for the year. You said that in the first year, in the year of start-up, payments of EUR 260000 were made. That's the question. When last summer the Ministry of Justice launched a mass advert to invite people to consume this service, the Ministry's notice stated that legal aid is provided across Estonia with few exceptions in all places, until out-of-court proceedings and even before the court. But let us see how it is financed: in fact, only the first two hours are free for a person, the next three hours are already 20 euros per hour and when it goes over, the person has to pay the full price. I have two questions. In what places is this legal aid not provided? And is this really free legal aid, and isn't that money a little too little?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U45	Thank you. I am not denying that it was clear in setting these conditions that, in some cases, disputes may be very complex and require very thorough consideration. For this reason, time-limits had to be set for the provision of the service. In reality, if a person wishes to consult a specific legal counsellor for more than five hours, he or she will have to pay for the remaining hours on the basis of the service price list. So he's ordering this service according to his financial means. Now, where the legal aid is being provided. I want to stress once again that these opportunities are quite good if a person wants to meet a counselor physically. I read you this list, it sounds like an introduction to some band's summer tour. I'm not gonna go over those city names again, if you don't mind. But indeed, this advice cannot be obtained in all places far from it. It would probably not be realistic in all population units either. If I remember correctly, this list of places had an important input from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Initially, we had a shorter list, but the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs considered it necessary, even though this is not enshrined in the law, to include some additional municipalities or settlements in the terms of the competition. And you can also get a consultation by phone, online forum, e-mail. These advices do not require mere physical contact. Is that reasonable or not? I would like to stress that the average consultation time has been one and a half hours. At the same time, there has probably been quite a sway. In a large number of cases, legal advice explains to a person that he or she has misunderstood his or her rights. He may not have any particular right. People can have a lot of false or deceptive images that can lead them to make wrong choices in a rational way. Such cases will certainly take less time. On average, counseling has lasted an hour and a half. But in the second half of this year, we will try to analyse the availability of legal aid more closely and, if possible, to improve the conditions within the framework of the upcoming competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U46	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have to admit that this free provision of services to a large part of society, the income of most people is below the EUR 1803 rate, and this is accompanied by a grand analytical and control mechanism that gives me the creeps. All the more so when it is now very clear that the chosen service provider has a major problem with a good name and reputation. Is this also some kind of world-view consensus in government? One party offers free public transport and creates clumsy schemes, you offer free legal aid to most of the society, and it also looks like a vinka-vonka limp?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U48	No limp, Andres, vinka-vonka. It's okay! In fact, if we take it from the right perspective, there is an own contribution. The shareholding exists and grows over time. I think that this own contribution is certainly also justified. We can set aside an analogy with certain specialist medical services, where there is a participation. Even if the person's taking this seriously comes on time, he realises that it is still largely taxpayers' money to protect his rights. Is that a rational system? Maybe it's too stiff. On the contrary! Prior to the implementation of this system, legal aid was also intended for an amount of EUR 4 million. Above all, it has been intended for legal proceedings and this income rate has been significantly lower, say, near the poverty line. It is undoubtedly difficult to apply for a specific lawyer for legal proceedings, whether it is criminal or civil administrative proceedings. This process, which is taking place through the appointment of a judge, is difficult, even though we have also tried to make it easier with forms and requests. What is important here is that these legal advisers assist people in submitting their application even if a person wishes to have legal proceedings. He must, of course, meet these criteria. I think this is not a world-view issue in terms of the right or left scale, it is a world-view issue based on the scale of the rule of law. In reality, the prerequisite for realising fundamental human rights is that people are aware of these rights. That's a presumption! I have to say that if, in the nineties, in the transition phase at the time, where a great deal of new ownership and other relationships developed, such a wider legal advice service existed, it would certainly have changed many reform decisions. It wouldn't have made them more painful, but it would have made them more rational. Services of a similar nature are also offered in other countries. We actually had a choice. In 2015, we also analysed the Finnish model. In Finland, both the system of judicial representation and legal advice is structured in such a way that such officials are paid by the state. We had to make an ideological choice. We found that a better solution would be for the state to order legal assistance from the Bar Association, as well as legal advice by competition, on the basis of a legal obligation. We did not want to increase the number of public officials to provide this service. It is possible that a certain trap could also have been held in a situation where an official receiving bread from a state would have to protect a person in a situation where a person has lodged a complaint against a state institution or is himself under criminal proceedings because the state is accusing him. So it could be opposite positions. But this is the model in Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U49	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned that 12% of the customers who received the service have been dissatisfied. Has the Ministry analyzed what their cause of dissatisfaction is basically? And if the recipient of the service is not satisfied with the service, has the Ministry paid for the service to the law enforcement provider, or has some kind of protection mechanism been developed for that purpose? Please explain the whole procedure!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U51	Yeah, there's a defense mechanism. If the service does not meet the requirements or even worse, if, in the most drastic case, it has not been de facto provided, the State will, of course, not have to pay for it. One thing is, the Ministry will identify the aid. This is such a great brother's control, which Andres pointed out as too much or, let's say, a majestic control mechanism. In short, it checks whether a particular case has taken place, for example, whether a meeting of persons has taken place. Another thing is people's sense of complacency, whether they feel that they have received something that is necessary. Based on this cognitive satisfaction, we can dictate to the service provider. Now specific cases in which legal advice is not satisfied. That is what the Hatter of the People's Representative asked. In order not to mislead the High Legislative Chamber, I will give a more precise overview of this after the inquiry has been concluded. However, I would like to say that it is certainly not nice that a particular person who offers this service has such a reputation. I certainly cannot consider this to be a fact that can be said to be awfully fun. Far from it! I have asked to be examined whether the person who is the organiser of one company has been punished for criminal offences or has been subject to civil law restrictions, a business ban or a ban on any other economic activity. The answer has been no. Whether additional criteria for ensuring reliability and transparency should be applied in future competitions and procurements is, in my opinion, the subject of a more serious debate. I certainly don't rule it out. At the same time, we need to understand that this is not about the exercise of state authority, that we have engaged somebody with some bad reputation in the public administration. We have two companies that provide legal services because they met the required criteria. These are the problems of one person's reputation. I understand the human resentment of people who think about how a country can build such a relationship. The only explanation at the moment can be that this is not an advantage or recognition granted by the State. This project is the fact that companies are paid for the provision of services. Similarly, the payment for the service applies to the construction of some kind of immovable property or other subject-matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U52	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U53	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! Please, could you further specify how much of this service is represented by face-to-face meetings, how much, I don't know, e-mail conversations, how much phone conversations? And how many of these are there? I don't know if I'm going to use the right terms for one-off cases and how many follow-up discussions or follow-up counselling?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U54	Thank you for such a very professional question. That is certainly justified. I can say that this so-called catalog is indeed diverse. The lion's share of legal advice consists of face-to-face meetings. In the case of web counselling, the obligation is to send a reply to a person within five working days. So it's written advice. Telephone instruction must be provided on weekdays from 9 to 17 o'clock for two persons in need at the same time and for one person in need for a maximum period of 30 minutes. How exactly these cases will be divided, the Ministry will certainly have a very detailed overview of this, and I will be happy to pass it on to the representative of the people. There's no secret about how this is happening. But in order not to be inaccurate in the generalisation, I will provide specific information on how the legal advice was given last year to more than 5 000 people: who have received assistance by physically meeting with the counsellor and how many were given help online and over the phone. I'll send you an additional response. It is certainly the duty of the service provider to keep this account and the duty of due diligence of the ministry to have this overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U55	There are no further questions for the Minister. Negotiation. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U56	Mr President! Good minister! Good ambassadors! I have to admit, now I'm going to start with a sentence that sounds a lot in this hall. It's like there was a lot of talk, but when you think about whether we understood everything very accurately and got the answers to our questions, you want to say that I don't think I could. The last question: Asked how many face-to-face counselling is, how much online and how much on the phone. Unfortunately, the Minister did not know how to say this, but replied that the catalogue was diverse. The next thing I know is the question. The name of the service is free of charge state legal aid and if you look at what information the Ministry of Justice offers or what is found on the legal advice website, you may get the impression that it is free of charge of quality and rapid legal assistance. Why? Because in order to obtain legal aid at all, a person must register as a client of the Estonian Legal Bureau. This registration costs five euros. This money gives you two hours of legal advice. Next, you have to pay 20 euros per hour for the next three hours. And from the fifth hour onwards, the so-called full price will be paid, which the state will not compensate for. When you think about how and in what cases this legal aid is provided and is provided up to the courts' courts' courts' courts' courts' courts' proceedings, the state aid seems to be relatively limited. The Minister said that last year the service was provided or paid for approximately EUR 260000. However, it was possible to use the service for up to EUR 760000. As a result, around EUR 500000 was not used last year. I think there is a legitimate question as to whether the winning service provider still has the skills, competence and ability to provide high-quality legal assistance throughout Estonia. As the Minister also said, it is actually not possible to receive the so-called face-to-face service anywhere in Estonia; this possibility is only in selected places. Of course, you can say that there is a phone and an e-service is also possible, but sometimes it is relatively difficult or impossible to get good advice by e-mail. It is also worth thinking that if 12% of those who have received the service say that they are not satisfied with it, whether it is a high-quality aid. Once again, we heard from the Minister's reply that monitoring is being carried out on a daily basis, on a regular basis. I doubt that officials will be able to monitor, consistently and systematically, the quality of legal aid from the various media. Inevitably, after today's debate, there is a feeling that this is not a very well-designed service. I would even like to say that the organisation of free state legal aid has become like a high-quality legal aid farce. It doesn't seem fair or right, though it should be both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U57	Honourable Chairman! I have a speech from the floor because Monika Haukanõm has already largely described the nature of the problem. Having listened to all this discussion, I think it is probably necessary to stress very simple principles. First of all, the most defensive part of society, of course, requires free legal assistance, needs such a service. I'm not gonna argue with that. But the income limit of 1803 euros seems to be irrational. It is essential to ensure that the service provider has a good reputation. With this failure, the Ministry of Justice has ridiculed the whole process and service as such, and this is regrettable. Thirdly, the Minister referred here to the Finnish model. Of course, I do not really know how it is going to happen there, but there is certainly the idea that state officials actually have to give basic advice to citizens. Is that supposed to mean that the free legal aid providers are on the government's payroll and that someone needs to be recruited, here I would rather say no. But if we could stop alternative activities in ministries, such as this endless control of organized legal aid, then perhaps at the expense of internal reserves we would find a resource to provide basic clear advice to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U58	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U59	Don't the members of the Riigikogu want more speech. Minister? Urmas Reinsalu for negotiation, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U60	Thank you to the heirs for such constructive remarks. In Finland, it is structured in such a way that there are, in essence, public or state legal aid offices in which people on public payroll are employed. Our analogy could then be'state lawyers', who are on the government's payroll and provide advice both in court proceedings and in other advisory legal aid. Their professional activities consist only of legal advice; they do not perform any other public administration tasks. Now, out of the cost of this aid: one-off own contribution of EUR 5, two-hour free advice and, for the next three hours, the own contribution rate is 50% of the EUR 40 rate. Well, in 2015, the average hourly fee for legal services was 130 euros plus VAT. I think that if a customer receives two hours of advice for a 'visit fee' of EUR 5, this is a very important difference between these people and what is the market price for legal advice. There was also the question that only the selected locations could be consulted as to whether this list could be extended. I have listened carefully to this proposal and I hope that someone who makes an inquiry will make his proposal. We will certainly analyse how these places could be located across Estonia. There was also a concern that some of the money was not used. I don't think it's so fatalistic that it's too bad if we didn't get to the target we set. It is not like paying out pensions, so everyone who is entitled to a pension has to get that money. Of course, there is a disorder, if not all 300,000 old-age pensioners have received their pension, there is some confusion. It is still a subjective right of people. The state must, however, fulfil its duty of care in the sense that people must be aware of this right. Whether they use it or not, whether they prefer to read the law themselves, prefer to use the legal advisers on the market, that is, of course, their free choice. No one here can limit anyone. But it is certainly important that people are informed. The question of whether there are problems with the quality of the legal advice was also raised. Perhaps this service could be replaced by providing legal advice to people by ministries or other public authorities? I am one hundred percent convinced that when requests for clarification are made, they must be given a substantive answer. I have tried to keep this line in the Ministry of Justice, and I have encouraged officials to do so. You can't give a formal answer that you have no reason to demand it, and that's it. It is important to try to describe a person's legal position. Here, however, there is a very clear line of professional work and independence between legal advice and other counselling. Public authorities or public officials, whatever their main role, cannot take on the role of legal consul or legal counsel. They tell a person that one or another pattern would be rational in his situation. A legal counsellor can introduce different choices to a person; a person makes the choice himself. I think it's important to keep that distinction, not to blur that line. Public authorities cannot become legal advisers, suggesting whether one or the other pattern is correct or not. However, they must provide information on different options. I fully support this attitude. So thank you very much for asking me this question. It was also an opportunity to popularize the legal counseling project. But now, when it comes to quality issues, the quality of service was called into question, it was examined whether quality was poor, and I can confirm that the Ministry has a full overview of the different types of service. I'm sure I'll provide that information to the interviewers. As far as quality indicators are concerned, these people do not have legal knowledge to evaluate this aid, but I consider it at least satisfactory when it comes to 90% satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U61	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-04-02_U62	Free mike. I'll see you tomorrow. Good night. Have a nice day at work. Closure of the sitting at 4:41 p.m.
