ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu, especially Vladimir Velman and Kalle Laane, whom we congratulate on today's birthday! Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]] Although, for certain reasons, today could become a general day of forgiveness, the Riigikogu starts with the handover of proposals and draft laws. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As there seem to be some questioning, I decided that we would instead propose a draft law on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is a draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act. As you know, the subject is topical. The European Parliament elections will be held in May 2019. But what's different this time? The fact that we are most likely to have one more mandate, that is, seven more than the rest of Estonia. Our law doesn't say that now. Our proposal is to change the wording in such a way that the number of members elected to the Estonian Parliament is set out in European Union legislation in the future. This is a practical approach so that it is no longer necessary to change these numbers at all times if the number of our mandates is to increase as the country and pride grow. And a significant change, representatives of honourable political parties, is that according to our draft, the number of candidates on the list may exceed the number of members elected from Estonia to the European Parliament by two, i.e. seven plus two equals nine. Whoever doesn't make it to nine could do half the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U3	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U4	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! On behalf of six members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. There are six questions in the inquiry and this is entirely based on the amendment of the basic school and upper secondary school law adopted here at the beginning of the year and the related amendment of other laws. We ask exactly how the schools have started with support specialists for the academic year. How have advisory teams been put into work and who can get to know very thorough reports prepared by advisory teams? Has the Ministry started developing the rights and status of the assistant teacher and, if so, where has it been reached? So all these six issues are very clearly focused on one topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U5	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Tax policy, which has not been thought out and has been carried out by trial and error, can cause very serious damage. We have already seen this and, unfortunately, we will see it as an example of border trade in the years to come. The seriousness of the situation has also been understood by the Ministry of Finance. In the new economic forecast, we see the figures that say that border trade has taken on dimensions that we do not find elsewhere in the European Union, in the example of other countries that are in contact with border trade. It has become even more clear today that without intervention the problem will not resolve itself. The problem is not only that hundreds of millions of euros of tax revenue are not collected. We also see other negative aspects of excise policy besides the movement of excise revenue to Latvia. The aim is not cheaper alcohol, but an optimal tax rate. We can see that the long-term downward trend in alcohol consumption has reversed its rise. Given the market share of border trade, we can see that the average price has become cheaper for the consumer, because Latvia's alcohol prices are lower than we had before the last increase in excise duties. Border trade is ruining trade in the southern regions and has hit our jobs. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I am pleased to hand over the draft, which is a step in the direction of gradually putting a stop to border trade. It is not easy and it may take years for the ultimate solution to the big problem that has been created without thought. However, this bill is a step in the right direction by bringing excise duties on alcohol to the level we had in February 2017. As I said, the draft is a step towards bringing border trade to a halt, improving the revenue from the budget and also taking public health into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U7	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. The Management Board processes them as provided for in the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Now that we're all here, let's make sure we're all there. Please! 88 delegates will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U8	On Thursday, we did not discuss the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Mart Nut, representative of the Isamaa Group, for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Isamaa Group does not support the extension of multiple citizenship. To a certain extent, multiple citizenship is inevitable, which exists in very many countries, if not all. I am going back to the VII with this problem when the issues of citizenship were discussed quite a bit. Then there were two possible approaches on the table. One approach was that people who are Estonian citizens and who have settled abroad as a result of events during World War II should definitely retain Estonian citizenship. There is no way in which people can be denied the citizenship they have acquired when they are born or residing in another country. The second position was that this should not be allowed ♪ we must stick harshly to one citizenship. In fact, we should not recognise Estonian citizenship of Estonians living abroad, but we should be guided by the nullity of giving Estonian citizenship to all those who had come to Estonia during the Soviet period. There was no third option on the table at the time. Thus, the general concept was such that the widespread multiple citizenship was not recognised. The first option was retained and supported by the governments of Mart Laari and Andres Tarand, who were in power during the VII membership. The Citizenship Act, which was known to have been adopted in 1995, was also based on this principle. We can make a small tour of whether Estonian citizenship could have been taken away at all, because the Constitution was in force and it did not allow for the withdrawal of Estonian citizenship at birth. I don't think the Constitution really would have allowed this, but I repeat, these were the options on the table. Whether or not we want to expand multiple citizenship is another issue. As I emphasised, this approach is not supported by the Isamaa Group. The second round of questions, which has been dealt with by the bill, is the possibility of withdrawing citizenship for extraordinary services. I do not dispute the need to clarify the conditions for the withdrawal of citizenship acquired by naturalisation, given that there have been a number of developments which may give cause for this. I also recall the 1994-1995 here. The debates of the year, which we can also look at in the protocols of the Riigikogu of that time. At that time, it was entirely unanimous that citizenship granted for special services was one of the sub-categories of citizenship granted by naturalisation. This means that I repeat that, according to the constitution, it is indeed not possible to take away the citizenship at birth, but it is possible to take away naturalised citizenship. Consequently, citizenship granted for special services can also be withdrawn under the current law. So the bill that we have on this table for discussion does not solve this problem by itself. To the desired extent, naturalised citizenship can still be taken away, and those points that are to be supplemented by the draft concern, for some reason, only citizenship obtained for extraordinary services. They do not concern all the conditions of citizenship acquired by naturalisation. So the Isamaa Group does not support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U10	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, Oudekki Loone speaks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, There are many problems with the regulation of Estonian citizenship. One problem is what has been said about this draft: we have a contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act. It is as if we give some people the constitutional right to have multiple citizenships and not to others. While you have several citizenships that are your constitutional right, it's like you're breaking one law. Of course, this is absurd and should be changed. Our Citizenship Act still has grey passports in mind in the 1990s, which were then designed to solve an acute problem, and which had to be temporary. As with temporary things, they remained forever. We have a question, then, who were the citizens of the Republic of Estonia before World War II, whether or not the citizenship certificates of emigrants are taken as the basis of citizenship. There are many people for whom the official has decided that yes is to be counted; others are not to be counted. There's too much uncertainty, and the official doesn't care. Probably hundreds of people are now in a situation where the Estonian state says that you see, we have lost it, you are still not citizens. Such a thing cannot be done by a self-respecting state, and the problem of these people must, of course, be resolved here faster than the procedure of this bill. So, for the future, there will certainly be the question that we cannot punish people in any way for the mistakes of the state. In this sense, this bill is probably born of a good idea, a desire to organize things somehow. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U12	Yeah, please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U13	However, unfortunately, it is a somewhat unthinkable draft that does not really solve the problems I mentioned above. Let's start by looking at where we allow double citizenship. There is, in fact, a list of unthinking countries. Well, the fact that we allow double citizenship in the European Union is unbiased: we are a member of the European Union, we have free movement of labour, we have very many policies that we will inevitably do together. So there's an exception to this. But the rest of the countries do not fit under such a classification, a common denominator, which would say that we have an impartial list. If we look at the draft explanatory memorandum, there is also a reference to the same values and there is no reasonable reason why double citizenship is not allowed. Once again, we are seeing unclear names that cannot be viewed legally. A person cannot come and wonder whether he has the right to this double citizenship or not. He doesn't understand the law. In this way, the basis for writing the law must be logical and understandable to everyone. Let's also look at the question of the Estonians in Abkhazia. In their case, very many have raised the question of whether they could maintain their citizenship in the Russian Federation for simply practical reasons that this draft law does not want to allow exclusively. In fact, this does not solve this type of issue for many other people who hold a citizen's certificate for emigrants. We must decide on citizenship on the basis of a citizenship certificate, not on the basis of the country in which people or their descendants will come to live. It's just random right now. To draft a bill that says that we do not like the Russian Federation, it simply does not make sense. We may not like him, but we can't write it into the law. The draft law also does not improve the situation where we see that our citizenship law actually deepens the conflict between naturalised and native citizens: a naturalised citizen is, as if all the time, a little second-class citizen, he is not quite the same. One of these examples here is the withdrawal of citizenship on the basis that we do not respect our values, the organisation of society, the Estonian language. Firstly, it cannot be measured and, secondly, it means that all citizens of special merit have to live all the time worried that there might be another government that doesn't like my views. Taking away citizenship for views is anything but democratic. When it comes to the rule of law and democratic values, the idea of taking away citizenship for our views does not fit in either the rule of law or democratic society. That's something I'm sure you can't do. The Centre Party is in favour of reviewing the principles of citizenship law and citizenship. We are certainly in favour of abolishing the contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act. Double citizenship must certainly be raised on the table and consensus found. But we do not see that, in this form, it can be done, and that is why we do not support this draft. We support the raising of all these problems and the resolution of all old injustices, including the elimination of the double citizenship problem, because in future terms, our citizenship principles are pretty good. There is certainly no need for the Estonian state to put archipelagos before people to whom it is the only and important home country, nor before good people who want to join us and who love the Estonian state. Of course, let's solve these issues, but not in any form, not in the form where the existing government is going to choose the kind of citizenship to which we are giving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U14	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Valdo Randpere. Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U15	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sitting in the hall for the second day on Thursday, after all, we've started to think it's a very good bill, but it's a very poor play in this hall. I look to the left: the Social Democrats report that the bill treats citizens unequally and that it is not good to give double citizenship to all, naturalised citizenship, and also to all gray passport men, all over the world. But dear Social Democrats, the citizenship law is actually unfair because we have birth citizens and naturalisation citizens. They are also treated unequally by the Constitution, as citizenship at birth cannot be withdrawn according to the Constitution. Its inequality has been written in by the state and its inequality has been written in by many countries. If you go to America and you're not a birth citizen, you won't be president. Or maybe you can't. But what is perhaps important for the rest of the hall, especially for the right-hand side, the IRL or the Fatherland, whoever you are? This bill does not create any new citizens. This will only allow the citizens of Estonia after birth to have double citizenship with the countries sharing common values with us, from among the European Union and NATO Member States to which Australia and New Zealand have been added. We are only talking about birth citizens and double citizenship with our allies; we do not support double citizenship with Russia. If you, Fatherland, understand this, maybe you can understand the following reasoning: we want to eliminate the contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act with this bill. The Constitution does not permit the removal of birth citizenship. However, the Citizenship Act requires a person to give up either the Estonian citizenship at birth or the citizenship of another country acquired in order to avoid double citizenship. In my opinion, this is not a right in this Chamber, but an obligation that, when we see a contradiction between a law standing on the ground and a constitution, we must react and try to eliminate that contradiction. Here is another point, this withdrawal of citizenship for special services. It is said that this is one of the forms of naturalisation citizenship that can be, but it does not have to be, it is actually a matter of interpretation. We are a compromise and we are now offering another solution to this draft right here. The draft is based on the Aliens Act, which can then be said to be unfair and discriminatory. The Aliens Act basically establishes the procedure for one foreigner to behave in Estonia. We thought that citizenship granted for special services, which may often also be given to an alien, could be taken away from this logic if constitutional order was not respected, etc. But you can also use the logic of the Orders Act. In our view, citizenship granted for special services could be withdrawn if a judgment has entered into force whereby a person has been convicted of committing a deliberate criminal offence when he becomes aware of the circumstances which occurred at the time the nationality was granted, which were then unknown, but which would have precluded the grant of citizenship, etc. So we are a compromise. As far as the government's opinion on this draft is concerned, frankly, I have never read such a hysterical, panicical or confusing government's opinion on any of these drafts before. Imagine how our little, small draft will be handled, which actually gives Estonians living abroad the feeling that they belong to Estonians in their homeland. It is said to cause social tension, injustice and confrontation, which in turn significantly increases the threat to public order and national security. The signature of this government's opinion writer is that of Indrek Island. That name takes me to one point in itself. I'm gonna tell you a little bit about getting this bill. They also asked why you hadn't done this before. Six years ago, I already had the idea that in fact Estonia could fully legitimise the possibility of double citizenship for the citizens after birth. I went first with this talk, we were in the coalition at that time with the Fatherland League, who was known not to be supported by Sotsi, Indreku, to seek support. The same Indrek told me on the first day that a very good idea, he thinks. He thought and came the other day to tell me that, no, you can't do that, you should give everyone double citizenship. It is a very good idea if we give it to everyone: naturalisation for those who have acquired citizenship, for those who speak other languages and whatever. Their support was lost. I also spoke to the Centre Party. I realized the Centre Party was a little split up back then. In the meantime, the Centre Party has even done something. A year ago, your vice-president here made a draft about the withdrawal of this citizenship for special favors, but this bill disappeared into a drawer somewhere. On the columns of the papers, we read about it, it hasn't come into operation. I assume that part of the Centre Party will support this bill, but maybe not. Let us now look at this on an international scale. This bill has actually been written off Latvia in many ways. In Latvia, a law of exactly the same logic has been in force for five years and no problems at all. Logic is exactly the same: double citizenship can be enjoyed by allied states or by countries sharing the same values, but not, for example, when it comes to Russian citizenship. This law works and there are no problems. Studies among Estonians living abroad show that 70% of Estonians living abroad do not feel that the Estonian state needs them. 43% of them do not feel that people living abroad are well treated in Estonia. If we want to change this attitude and understanding a little bit, we must allow double citizenship for those people who have fallen away from Estonia and live in countries that are friendly and share the same values, and make it a reality that we abolish this contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act. As far as the Patriotic League is concerned, I understand that Mart Nutt has just said that it is not supported by the Patriotic League. Tsahkna once said that the IRL is unambiguously opposed to double citizenship. Now Tsahkna is unambiguously in the 200 political parties in Estonia who, as far as I know, support this idea of double citizenship. But also Liisa-Ly Pakosta, for example, who has gone from the Fatherland Union to the Commissioner for Equality, has said: 'If Estonia is interested in Estonians actually returning home from abroad, it is reasonable to allow double citizenship to a certain extent. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U16	It was interesting to listen, but we ran out of time. Henn Põllaas, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U17	Ladies and gentlemen, Proposals for double citizenship have also been made in the past. They've always been rejected. There is now a new attempt: it is two-faced in a draft, the other parts of which are relatively reasonable. In 2013, the Ministry of Internal Affairs carried out an impact analysis on double citizenship, the conclusion of which was unambiguously negative as it poses a direct security threat. The process involved the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Culture, Police and Border Guard Board and kapo. The Minister of the Interior was the representative of the same party, Hanno Pevkur, who has put this bill on the table here today. I'm going to make a brief summary of this analysis. Yes, double citizenship is provided by a number of countries. However, it is mostly granted in limited cases, for example where the application comes from parents of different nationalities. Double citizenship is not common, and there are clear reasons for it. For example, after a bad experience, the Netherlands has made double citizenship unacceptable again. The Citizenship Act says that an Estonian citizen must not be at the same time a citizenship of another state. Our citizenship policy has changed little since the restoration of independence and has been based on the view that its principles will not be changed. The bill we have on the table today is turning our citizenship policy completely upside down. The establishment of a list of countries with which double citizenship is permitted will not solve the problem, as our citizens may also become citizens of third countries which are hostile to us. When allowing double citizenship with Member States of the European Union or with other countries, it should be taken into account that many of them also allow double citizenship with third countries, such as Russia. By giving Estonian citizens the right to be a citizen of another country after birth, there is a situation where these people are exposed to the political and social influences of other countries. Since loyalty to the state is undivided in reality, there is undoubtedly a conflict of loyalty, especially when the other country has different interests. How to ensure, for example, mandatory military service for Estonian citizens, which is not elsewhere available, etc.? Double citizenship increases security risks by significantly increasing foreign influence in parliamentary elections and other policy, social and economic areas. The Constitution provides for the preservation of the nation state and public order and the security of the state as the objectives of the Republic of Estonia. However, a double-citizen has obligations against several countries. By allowing double citizenship, we give citizens of other countries access to Estonia's highest power. The question is which country's interests are represented, for example, by a member of the Riigikogu voting, a minister or a diplomat when he negotiates with another country whose nationality he also holds. Who is protected by such a general or a Special Branch agent? Even if it is a friendly ally for us, each country has its own interests. To whom are such individuals loyal? Who wants double citizenship here? The Constitution states that Estonia also protects its citizens abroad. Double citizenship can create tensions in relations between countries. For example, if a person wants diplomatic protection against another country as a citizen of both countries, Estonia's ability to protect its citizen abroad will be reduced. By legitimising double citizenship, the obligation arises to manage a person's identity substantially more widely. This puts a heavy burden on the Police and Border Guard Board, the Poo, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. Problems arise as to how to obtain and control information about other citizenships of a person. However, transnational cooperation still does not provide full information as to whether the citizen is also a third-country national or not. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U18	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U19	Maintaining double citizenship also requires major and costly IT developments. Changes must be made to databases such as population registers, databases of identity documents, registers of refusals of entry and databases of persons who have acquired, restored or lost their nationality, etc. An agreement must be concluded with many countries for the exchange of data on the nationality of persons. Today, we do not even have them in full with those countries with whom we have double-citizens. In 2013, a one-off cost of up to EUR 3 million and fixed costs of up to EUR 1 million per year were estimated. At present, these amounts are undoubtedly significantly higher. Indeed, we have individuals who have illegal double citizenship here in the Riigikogu. The double citizenship resulting from the violation of the law cannot be a legitimate basis for legitimisation. It is our duty to stand up for the interests of Estonia, not of individual persons or of foreign countries. In the long term, this bill directly serves the Kremlin's interests. The final conclusion of the analysis reads as follows: there is no need under international law and the Constitution to legitimise double citizenship and this would be contrary to a consistent citizenship policy and would lead to significant broad and direct security implications. There is therefore no reasonable reason to legitimise double citizenship in Estonia. Nothing has changed in this respect: this analysis is now exactly as adequate as it was a few years ago. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party therefore proposes to reject the draft at first reading. The performers can return with this once the provisions for allowing double citizenship that harm Estonia's interests have been removed. Then you will also get our consent and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U20	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U21	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to talk a little bit about two sub-topics: firstly, the trends in our legislation more generally and secondly, on a more specific subject, namely this draft. I begin by saying that, when the Soviet Union occupied Estonia in its day, the Estonian people, in response to the new reality, invented a series of new words to mark previously unknown phenomena. One such word, which was introduced in 1940-1941. In 2006, it's a 'comjac'. It's starting to get forgotten now, but in my youth, it meant a pointless, crazy back and forth, or even a senseless job. This kind of combo has been going on "state reform" for the last four, five, or six years. For very strange reasons, people of all kinds have talked about state reform as something that should be almost absolving, and all kinds of opinions that state reform, or should not, is mildly suppressed or sidelined. I do not know that those who raise the issue of this state reform would have raised the question of the Citizenship Act. Overall, I think that we have two important things that we should deal with over the next few years and that we will not be able to deal with. First of all, it should be acknowledged that our country's formation, during this 25 years, has made various mistakes in our country's design. It doesn't matter why these mistakes occurred, it's important that they don't let us go on. Perhaps the biggest and most prominent of them is the issue of national funding for political parties. But it's not the only type of error. Another type of error is that many things that have long been screaming about the need to deal with them are not dealt with. One of these things is certainly the question of modernising the Citizenship Act. This 1995 law had probably failed in some respects from the outset, but for now, woe screams to heaven. That's another thing. For example, yesterday we had a question to the Minister for the Interior in this Chamber, where we addressed the issues of the possibilities of electoral circles and foreign Estonians in the context of the approaching elections. This is an equally sour question And now this key question, what happens next. At the moment, the government coalition, and probably the EKRE, say that we are voting out of the procedure on this draft. Okay, let's vote out of the procedure. If it were to involve at least working on a new citizenship law in a ministry or several ministries, it would make sense, but it doesn't. Work could only begin if, as a result of the next elections, we would have a government coalition that would like to deal with such a matter, but this work would probably not be completed during the next parliamentary term. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U22	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U23	After all, our choice right now is that we have two methods to move forward. One thing is to think that Estonia will never have a new and significantly better comprehensive law on citizenship, in which I do not believe well and which will certainly take an enormous amount of time. Another possibility is that we will move forward with this problem one step at a time. There's a lot of trouble. Let's take one thing for example, and if we do not even reach the end of this during the current Riigikogu, then at least an important preliminary work would have been done. To be honest, I didn't really understand the meaning of these speeches here. People's representative in Põllaa has read to us all the political and other fears that come with this bill. I fully agree that these fears exist and must be taken seriously into account. People's representative Loone told us that basically it is necessary, but we need to go a different way and far beyond. That, too, is the subject of discussion, why not? People's representative Randpere, in my opinion, said perhaps the most important aspect. It is not so much a question of theory or legalism, but a question of the daily lives of living people and their future, of destiny. These are also important issues. Let's get out of here! I must conclude by saying that, in my opinion, there is still fear here, just as in the last year, in this time of the government coalition, there has been a fear of real work on every serious issue and fear of officials in their own ministry who do not want to deal with things that are uncomfortable for them. This is also the result of the Riigikogu's request for comfort and certainly a great deal of political laziness. They're going to dominate here. You can't go on like this. I hope that all or at least the majority of the Members of the Free Party Group will vote in favour of this draft remaining in the process, and that it will continue to deal with this subject at least at the level of Riigikogu officials and our representatives of the people in this Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U24	People's representative Henn Põllaas will be the Reply, his name being mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U25	Thank you. My colleague mentioned my name, claiming that I had read out the fears of double citizenship. I would like to stress that these are not fears, but an analysis prepared by the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Culture, the Police and Border Guard Board and kapo. And then the Ministry of the Interior was led by Hanno Pevkur, member of the Reform Party in this hall today. So these are not fears, they are completely serious aspects that must be taken into account. And we have to take them into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U26	Valdo Randpere also has the right of reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U27	Thank you. First of all, I would like to get rid of the wrong that sounded in the previous speech and in this board before. At the time of this analysis, which was referred to here and where the Ministry of the Interior was a party, the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, was not Hanno Pevkur. This is bullshit! You know, a little lie like that couldn't blow up and run. The second thing is that we are talking about security risks, including the fact that one of our Riigikogu members has been caught up in the composition of our Riigikogu, who has double citizenship and who is a security risk. Let's get this straight. I escaped from the Soviet Union in 1984. I dealt with anti-Soviet activities abroad, and because of the betrayal of my homeland, a criminal case was brought against me in Estonia. If you don't believe me, go see Freemom. § 62, possible punishment: death penalty. There was no death penalty, but the Soviet Union took away my citizenship three years later. Since 1987, I was a stateless person in the Kingdom of Sweden, and a year later Sweden gave me its citizenship. I had no citizenship at the time, and I also had no dream or feeling that I could ever become an Estonian citizen at birth. Fortunately, however, three or four years later, I became an Estonian citizen at birth because it was discovered that my father was an Estonian citizen. I can't remember where this border was drawn, either it was 1934 or 1939. I didn't have to do anything to apply for birth citizenship. I had it all of a sudden, and I was happy to accept it. But I do not feel that I would in any way be more dangerous to the Estonian state. I would like to know when a person becomes dangerous to the Estonian state either when he betrays his occupation power or when this occupation power takes away his citizenship, or when another country only gives a travel document, not a person without a passport, so that he can travel. Will he become a security threat at that moment? Or is this happening at the moment when Estonia becomes free and the person discovers that he is also an Estonian citizen at birth because his father was?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U28	A debate always becomes practical and serious when spoken from the heart. Evgeny Ossinovski, representative of the Social Democrats, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A few comments on this debate. There have been repeated references to both me and the position of the Social Democrats in this debate, which has not been mentioned here once in this debate. I'm not gonna make an emotional exorcism in history, but I'd like to clear up a few things. Firstly, it is understandable, of course, that such a discussion is taking place both in society and in this Chamber. Given that the world is changing and people are increasingly mobile, it is clear that there are more and more practical concerns that people have every day. This certainly concerns those people who have fled Estonia at some point and whose third or fourth generation now lives in Canada, the United States or another country, but also those who, for business, family or other reasons, have either temporarily or permanently settled in other countries in recent decades, have children with nationals of another country and have completely practical questions as to why a child should choose between the mother or father's nationality. Consequently, if we look at the trend of the last few decades in the countries of the European Union, this trend is very clear, with double citizenship being allowed in more and more countries. As regards the issue of double citizenship, Estonia is one of the most conservative with its regulation, with Austria and Lithuania. It is clear that these discussions are absolutely timely and relevant. Neither I nor the Social Democrats have expressed a position on this issue, because I believe that this draft is a political draft in a bad way, or a party-political draft, six months before the elections. This became clear to me when, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, my colleague, as a representative of the Reform Party, tried to present it and there was not even a particular desire to answer the essential questions raised by the Members of the Commission and also by the representatives of the Government. Perhaps that there had been some attempt to convince colleagues that a sensible thing was being done, I have not noticed about this draft. And since the Social Democrats have not asked voters for a mandate to legitimise double citizenship, we cannot support it now. Debate on this issue will certainly continue, both in society and in the party. However, I did indeed draw attention to one of the things that the representative of the Reform Party was trying to set up here in an ambitious manner, telling everyone how we want to share citizenship and whatever. You see, in a democratic rule of law, the granting of rights or the taking of rights must be in line with the word and the spirit of the Constitution: if some people are granted more rights and not others, then there must be a legitimate reason in the Constitution. We are talking here about the fact that a proposal from the Reform Party would have the right to have double citizenship by birth citizens, but other citizens would not have. I also asked about this legitimate reason in the Commission and in this Chamber. The answer was actually this: we so chose, it was our political choice, it was our political decision. You see, this is not the way it works in the democratic rule of law, that we simply decided that some people will have rights, but other people will not have these rights, and there must be a legitimate reason for this. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U30	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U31	Unfortunately, this argument did not come up. The representative of the Reform Party said that what is then, citizens are unequal in all countries: some are born-born citizens, others have acquired citizenship by naturalisation, third by marriage, and others by some means. These are ways of acquiring citizenship; they are not citizens' rights. There are, of course, different ways of acquiring citizenship in all countries. The question is, if you have received citizenship, are you a fully-fledged citizen like everyone else, or are you not. Of course, it can be staged with this example, but you see, in the United States, only a native citizen can be president. Among other things, we also have this, and this is the only difference in rights in Estonia between birth and naturalised citizens. If this difference in rights is now to be increased, there must be a legitimate reason why it is done. Reference is made to the Constitution. Yes, the Constitution obliges the country not to take citizenship away from its citizens after birth, but it does not oblige naturalised citizens to take it away from it, it can be regulated in one way or the other. I do not rule out that the legitimate reason may be here, and that is something that could be discussed honestly, but unfortunately, there was no intention of bringing this discussion here. Take, for example, the third generation of foreign Estonians in the United States. They are nice good people, who are of course Estonian patriots and could be related to Estonia, but many of them do not speak Estonian, some of them may never have been to Estonia. According to this bill, we want to give them the right to be a double citizen. Okay, here we go, we'll make a deal on that. But why in this case couldn't a citizen who has made an effort here in Estonia to become an Estonian citizen learn the language and take an oath.. and who is, let us admit, much more related to Estonian society? I'm not saying one way or the other. I think that this debate, whether or not to allow double citizenship at all in principle, still needs to mature in society. But if you allow it, then there must be a very clear legitimate reason why some will get it, and others will not have it, it is a constitutional requirement, it is not a political decision. This is not a political decision; it is a constitutional requirement. And not answering these questions, which the initiators of the draft have systematically done both in the Commission and in this Chamber, does not, in my opinion, speak of a sincere desire to solve this problem, but rather of some kind of pre-election attempt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U32	It is true that the name of Henn Põllea was not mentioned in previous negotiating talks and also in the lines. However, our set of rules provides that if the negotiator refers directly to a subject relating to a particular member of the Riigikogu, in this case Henn Põljaasa, the word will be given. I'm gonna give Henn the word for the field line, adding that sometimes you start to think about how to negotiate so that we don't drown in lines afterwards. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U33	Thank you. I can appreciate that. I wanted to apologize. I was wrong. I was looking at the wrong year by mistake. The Minister of the Interior, during which this double-citizenship analysis was completed, was not Hanno Pevkur, but was indeed Ken-Marti Vaher. But if this mistake of lying is, as Randper claimed, I doubt it very much. It was the Reform Party, the Third Government of Andrus Ansip, so there is no big difference in that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U34	Ladies and gentlemen, However, by giving the floor to Mr Randpere, I propose that we limit ourselves to these lines, unless Valdo now says something extraordinary. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U35	I often say something extraordinary. And what I'm saying right now is that the same government that was referred to was written at the time that the government was falling apart precisely because the Minister of the Interior opposed double citizenship. Although Ken-Marti Vaher has said that his opposition came from giving double citizenship to those who had naturalised citizenship, because it is an obvious threat to our security. We do not give double citizenship to those who have naturalised citizenship, so this argument falls away. As for the argument made by the previous speaker that we are going to come out here in the run-up to the elections with some bullshit to get some attention, that is not true. We've been at this for years. I also described it on the remote, how I've been and talked about it. We've been at this for years. In fact, the question is, if you think about the elections at all, that we have an estimated 800,000, 100,000, 200,000 Estonians abroad. Why do we despise them, why don't we want them back? Why do we not want to let them feel part of what is happening in Estonia? Please, let's do this! And support this bill! The Reform Party will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U36	Since the minister of the previous government is not among us now in this Chamber, we cannot hear his line. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 634 at first reading. The same proposal was made by the EKRE. This brings us to the vote. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? Thank you! I am voting on the proposal by the commission and the EKRE to reject the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 50 parliamentarians voted in favour of the proposal, 35 against and no abstentions were found. The proposal of the Steering Committee and the EKRE Group was supported. Draft 634 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U37	First reading of the draft law amending the law on gender equality initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 683. Minister of Health and Labour Riina Sikkut to waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to the draft law amending the Act on Gender Equality and, in this respect, to the amendment of other laws. The draft introduces two main changes. First of all, the Gender Equality Act is complemented by sections of gender-based comparison and analysis of wage data to help employers fulfil their obligations under the law already in force as a promoter of gender equality and also to make sure that they do not have one gender preference and take gender aspects into account. The second amendment concerns the right of the Labour Inspectorate to supervise the public employer in carrying out the above activities. Now from the background why the gender pay gap will be monitored. Indeed, the wage gap in Estonia remains above 20%, both in the public and private sectors. According to Statistics Estonia, the wage gap in the public sector was slightly smaller in 2017, but it was only 0.4 percentage points, so there is concern in both sectors. In the European Union, as we know, we are still the country with the largest gender pay gap. Salary gap studies and analyses show that only 15% of the pay gap in Estonia can be explained by people with different educations, workloads, working hours, occupations and occupations. 85% is then the unexplained pay gap that concerns motivation, commitment, attitudes, but also discrimination. Working income is the main source of income or the only source of income for the majority of us, and remuneration for work also affects other types of income. So the pay gap affects not only the pay available in one month but also the future pension, parental benefit and unemployment benefit. Reducing the pay gap affects well-being not only during working life, but throughout life. Reducing the pay gap, especially in Estonia, also contributes to reducing child poverty, as there are many single-parent families known in Estonia, i.e. families where the mother raises children alone. More generally, the gender pay gap reflects the structural inequalities we have, the different positions of men and women in society, the different educational choices they make and the different choices they make in the labour market. So apparently the odds are equal, but access to resources is actually different for us. Therefore, in order to overcome this inequality, we need to take greater account of gender aspects in the organisation of social life and to shape relevant policies in society at large, but equally with every employer. In Estonia, the think tank Praxis has examined both the pay gap and ways of overcoming it and has recommended five main measures that could be implemented. Two of them are next. Firstly, better implementation of the Gender Equality Act, or indeed employers must be supported in fulfilling the obligation already in the current law. Secondly, it is necessary to analyse the practices and pay systems of organisations and to support their transformation into a gender perspective. In addition, there is, of course, a need to improve the possibilities for reconciling work and family life, and gender aspects need to be taken into account in education and labour policies in order to reduce educational and professional segregation. This draft law concerns two measures: on the one hand, better implementation of the existing Gender Equality Act and, on the other hand, the analysis and modification of recruitment and remuneration practices and remuneration systems in organisations. In 2015, an employer survey was carried out in Estonia, which also examined the principles and practices of remuneration. It turns out that less than two thirds of organisations have, in fact, dealt with and regulated their remuneration systems in terms of their obligations under the Gender Equality Act, while in one third of organisations, the formation of remuneration is purely a matter of negotiation. If the salary is calculated only from the negotiating point of view, no assessment of the positions has been carried out, no analysis has been carried out of how remuneration is formed, the value of one or the other position or job in the organisation, it is not possible to assess whether the organisation has respected the principles of equality. The same study also showed that there are only a little over a third of those organisations in which the employee who returned from parental leave is raised when other workers have in the meantime increased their salary. This will contribute to the preservation of the gender pay gap. Returning from parental leave and related concerns and achieving a level playing field are one of the problems most addressed to the Commissioner. For its part, the European Commission has repeatedly pointed out in its country-specific recommendations the large gender pay gap in Estonia and the need to make remuneration systems more transparent. There have been two changes to the draft and now more detailed than their content. First of all, the Labour Inspectorate makes an annual gender-based comparison of wage data per public employer. This comparison shall be carried out automatically, on the basis of the data already submitted by employers to the tax authorities in the employment register and tax returns. The employer shall be informed of the results of this automatic comparison. A digital tool will be created with which this comparison will be made, and this tool will also be available. This assessment can also be requested by private sector organisations that are not obliged to make this comparison, but if they wish to analyse remuneration systems within their organisation and obtain a national assessment on the basis of the available data, they will be able to use it. Then, if the data-based comparison provided indicates that the employer may not pay equal pay to women and men for the same or equivalent work, the Labour Inspectorate may ask the employer for explanations and ask the public sector employer with 10 or more employees for a gender-based analysis of salary data. The real purpose of this analysis is to consciously look at recruitment and remuneration practices, whether or not they take gender-based aspects into account and how they can be improved within the same organisation. Although we are talking about the supervision of the pay gap, this analysis by the employer himself and the informed design of in-house practices are, in fact, the most important objective of this draft, or it will be of the greatest benefit. In order for employers to be able to do this analysis, the Labour Inspectorate supports and advises, the Ministry of Social Affairs is developing a guide for analysis and is planning training courses for employers. If the analysis reveals that there is no objective reason for the pay gap, the employer shall draw up an action plan indicating what steps he will take to reduce the pay gap within the organisation. Those measures should be adopted within a year, if necessary, and may be extended for a further year. At the end of the implementation period of the Action Plan, a gender-based analysis or comparison of wage data shall be re-examined to determine whether the measures have met their objectives and have produced results. The Labour Inspectorate also offers advice in the preparation and implementation of the Action Plan. In addition to the comparison of wage data and the supervisory aspect of the Labour Inspectorate, there are two other changes to the draft. The law already in force provides that the employer must also collect statistical data on his organisation on a gender-based basis, allowing the application of the principle of equal treatment in employment relations to be respected. So far, only one fifth of employers have collected this data. The amendment now specifies what the data piece is, which is the data that the employer should collect in the future. Secondly, according to the law in force, the employer must, in fact, provide workers or their representatives with relevant information on equal treatment between women and men within the organisation on a regular basis. Surveys show that, more than ten years after the entry into force of the Gender Equality Act, only 6% of employers have provided information on the situation of men and women in the organisation and only a little more than a tenth have informed employees about how equal treatment between men and women is guaranteed in the organisation. The draft law specifies this existing obligation and establishes that workers must be informed at least once every two years. Secondly, it specifies the information to be included in this information to be provided to the staff. The information should include a gender-based general comparison of the average salary or remuneration of female and male workers and the remuneration and benefit to be paid in connection with the work, by work, by occupation or by group of service. But now it's cost-effective. Expenditure will be spent on developing and communicating the digital tool, and the Labour Inspectorate will also have a permanent cost. These numbers exist in the explanatory memorandum, all in the order of 200,000. In the first two years, the cost of developing digital solutions and information activities will be higher, and in the future fixed costs will be EUR 200000 per year. However, this EUR 200000 has been fully spent, because the resources devoted to the areas of equal opportunities, including health and well-being, really ensure that we can all develop ourselves on an equal footing and do not have to fear discrimination. In that case, we are all better workers and we are working effectively. There is also a diversity of organisations that should make the best decisions. There are already exemplary entrepreneurs in Estonia, as well as private entrepreneurs, who knowingly have been involved in their organisation so that both recruitment and remuneration schemes take gender aspects into account and receive equal pay for equal work. The Act shall enter into force on 1 July 2020. So far, you can develop a digital tool and deal with communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U39	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits is the first number on the list of long questioners. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U40	Good minister! The starting point is that we are all guardians of women's rights in this Chamber. But the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations, which essentially includes dozens of women's organisations, is critical of the draft. From the documents of the Ministry of Justice, I read that the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities are also critical of the draft. Ülle-Marike Papp, who has been the promoter of gender equality in Estonia for years, is also of the opinion that this draft is not ideal. Why are you bringing a floor draft with so much criticism? Doesn't it seem to you that a number of organisations protecting women, of course, are somehow critical of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U41	Thank you for your question. Two aspects. On the one hand, I think it is not unusual at all that the draft receives comments and comments. Many of them also concern the clarification of the terms, so that the draft text is clear and clear. Here I see no difference between the other drafts that have come from the Ministry of Social Affairs. On the other hand, yes, the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations has indeed been critical of this draft, but not all women agree on many other aspects of social life, and it cannot be assumed that all women share the same view of how much concern we have about the pay gap and how these steps should be taken to reduce it. Understandably, as men have a different understanding of how to monitor the gender pay gap, whether to do it and by whom, just as the round table of women's associations has a different understanding of how and who should do it. I think this is a perfectly normal debate that will lead us to a better result. At the same time, the Estonian Entrepreneurial Women's Association, the Women's Support and Information Centre of MTÜ, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, the Pärnu Women's Support Centre, the Estonian Women's Research and Information Centre have expressed their support for this particular solution and draft. So there is a multitude of opinions, and I think that we will achieve a better solution in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U42	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your thorough presentation. The issue of education. Certainly I recognise the problem of the pay gap, it is a good thing that the subject is being dealt with. But the problem is that when we look at the education system in Estonia, we see a serious gender imbalance, and that is to the detriment of men. What about the male teachers we'd really like to get into school, who we're waiting for in schools, and what about kindergartens? How can we keep them there? Are the few of them going to disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U44	No, I don't think those few male teachers are gonna get out of school. However, it must be done to support both women's educational choices in favour of more men-centred disciplines and vice versa, and it must also be done to get more men to school. But this is the subject of other drafts and other packages. When we talk specifically about pay, there are probably a number of male teachers in a particular school environment. Schools need to negotiate how to do this and how to design remuneration systems to be transparent, adapted to the skills and responsibilities of employees. At the moment, we only rely on the fact that a male teacher traditionally teaches mathematics or physics. We have established fee schemes, such as the primary school teacher, who is mostly a woman, gets less pay. But the idea of looking at and evaluating jobs and looking at the value created by these jobs still means a change in our thinking. If the manager of a small business gets maybe four times as much pay as a child psychologist, then it's always been like this and it seems normal to us, but if we look at the effort, the contribution and the value that each of us creates at his place of work, then maybe we can figure out that this contribution could be equal and pay could also be equal. The same analogy applies to the school environment. When you assess jobs and look at what they are, what they are, what they are, or what they are, or what special skills they have and what they add to school life, it turns out that remuneration should reflect this, it is a man or a woman and it teaches physics or primary class children. So this transparency and understanding, which is the value created, for which we thank with this reward, I think, does not put men's teachers in a worse position, but actually improves things for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U45	Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U46	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, This issue we are talking about today is very important in society. I believe that the debate on this legislative amendment alone will make a major contribution to raising awareness on this issue. But my question is about the draft very large explanatory memorandum, which shows different patterns from the perspective of different representatives. These representatives are the public sector on the one hand and private companies on the other. Can you describe the main concerns of private operators that affected them with this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U47	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the obligation to monitor and analyse the pay gap currently extends to public sector organisations with more than 10 employees. The private sector was initially excluded, participation is voluntary, the use of these funds is voluntary, the analysis depends on goodwill. When this draft was drawn up, the concerns of businesses were common. It does not really have anything to do with this subject; it is rather a matter of administrative burden. Businesses were more concerned about whether they would have to start providing additional data than the size of this analysis if they had to maintain the gender-based remuneration data, which would mean or what the costs would be. This fully understandable concern for economic operators about the administrative burden that the state constantly imposes on them can be answered that an initial assessment is made on the basis of the data already provided. These data, which must be retained, are the usual accounting data that they are obliged to keep for seven years anyway, the obligation to be able to obtain information on the basis of the gender aspect and by work-family basis, is the result of the law already in force. With this draft, we do not impose any additional obligations on businesses, nor do we impose any additional obligations on public sector organisations in this respect. Rather, we are helping them to fulfil their obligations under the existing law so that we can achieve the objective of making remuneration systems more transparent within the organisation, providing information to employees, and we are still moving towards narrowing the pay gap with small steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U48	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U49	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for this excellent presentation. I think the law should generally be universal. From this law, this is, in fact, the continuation of the Heidy Purga question, the private sector has been excluded. When meeting a lot of young people and women, including older people, the question has arisen as to why this law, as it were, is more demanding with regard to some and less demanding with regard to others. I'm with the young people, I have to admit, I just don't get it. What led to the exclusion of the private sector from the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U50	Thank you for your question. I agree. I would also like the draft to be more ambitious. If you look at the experience of other countries in the European Union, it is actually normal for companies in the private sector to take gender aspects into account in the informed design of such remuneration systems and also to give feedback to the country on the pay gap within the organisation. In Estonia, there was a plan to apply it to all employers, but it was a political decision to narrow it down only to the public sector. The public sector will set an example and good private companies will be able to ask for this information and advice on a voluntary basis. Tööinspektsioon also advises them if they wish to reshape their internship within their organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U51	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You don't seem to have a very close contact with the real world if you're seriously discussing that an entrepreneur should get as much pay as a public employee. It simply ignores the circumstances relating to risk or capital injection or whatever. But there has been a lot of talk here about transparency. I'm also a big fan of transparency. It is now said that we are already going to control, organise and punish, first of all, in the public sector, with very high costs both for public sector agencies and for the budget itself. I would first like to see a proper transparent calculation of how we calculate this pay gap in the first place. Please don't talk about this Praxis. I have seen the European Union's calculation, which puts Estonia at its highest pay gap in the first place, ahead of Romania, Spain and Italy. I asked where it came from. This is because Estonia has calculated such numbers. I understand that women's working hours and men's working hours are taken, the money number is put aside and they say there is a gap. But how does it really work?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U52	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U53	Thank you! We're spending time in a room right now. I think that our alienation from life is relatively equivalent, neither of us is working as a child psychiatrist, even though they are a very serious disadvantage. But now for the calculation of the pay gap. Yes, as with all other statistical indicators, there are different ways. We are at the top of the European Commission's rankings all the time. Indeed, we have the biggest pay gap. These data come from Estonia, but Eurostat has its own rules for calculation, they exclude too small companies or organisations and some sectors, so that they make their own adjustments. Data from all Member States are comparable and comparable. Statistics Estonia calculates another wage gap indicator for Estonia, which is in the same order of magnitude. It calculates it by covering all our institutions and organisations and sectors. In this sense, Estonia may prefer to use the Statistics Estonia indicator. But regardless of the methodology we use to calculate the pay gap, the fact that we have this gap large and have not significantly narrowed in recent years remains a fact. Yes, the difference in gross hourly wages for men and women is examined and can be calculated for the country as a whole, can be seen in different sectors, can be viewed in an organisation or by occupation, but such a difference in gross earnings is the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U54	Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U55	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for your very good presentation. But I have a question and it's like this. I read in the explanatory memorandum that the unexplained pay gap can be expressed on the one hand by the effects of factors that have not been measured or cannot be measured, such as motivation and commitment, and on the other hand by discrimination on the labour market. Is there any way with these changes to clarify the unexplained pay gap? It is very easy for the employer to say that these people in my organisation are paid more because they are more committed and their motivation is higher. There's no way to control it from the outside.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U56	Thank you for your question. This comparison of wage data supporting employers, analysis of these differences and, if necessary, the drawing up of an action plan at national level do not give us direct information on the unexplained pay gap. If the results of the analysis and the action plans are aggregated and further analysed, it may indeed reveal something that has not come out of the analysis so far, because we simply have not collected this type of data on the remuneration systems and recruitment practices of organisations. So indirectly, he might be able to help explain it. At the same time, completely independent of this draft, there will be a broader analysis of the pay gap anyway. Through this we are trying to open up what this unexplained part of is made up of, how much there may be some attitudes inside, stereotypes, discrimination. So maybe in the next few years, we'll get an answer to that question, and we can figure out 85% of that part.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U57	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U58	Thank you. Dear Minister, Maybe you can open it to your own phrase that it's a matter of other laws that happens to a practical wage arrangement. That's what you said when you answered one last question here. I'm sure you'll remember. But my question is: how do you explain the Commissioner for Equality's criticism of this draft? Aren't you doing one thing? What's the contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U59	Thank you. This reference to other legislation came from the fact that this draft really is about monitoring the gender pay gap in the working environment, in organisations, but the reasons for the pay gap are also about reconciling work and family life, there is also the segregation that we have in education. This bill does not go to such root causes. The Commissioner has indeed been critical. Some of these criticisms relate to who should supervise whether this should be done by the Commissioner, the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Labour Inspectorate. In the course of our discussions, we have come to the point that this is a normal part of working life, workers are constantly being recruited and remuneration systems are constantly being redesigned. In the same way, the employer also shapes the working environment and concludes employment contracts. The Labour Inspectorate is responsible for all other aspects of working life concerning safety at work, the working environment, health care at work, employment contracts, dispute resolution in the Labour Dispute Committee. Therefore, the discussions revealed that it would also be logical for the monitoring of the pay gap to be imposed on the Labour Inspectorate. But the opinions that could do this were really different.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U60	Gender equality also raises questions in Peter Ernitsa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U61	Good manager! Good waitress! It's not a question, it's a question of why they act like this with an ax. The fact that a woman and a man must receive equal pay for equal work is elementary. But this is about the public sector, where one in five people works. At the same time, the Gender Equality Commissioner says that the Minister's arrangement should actually be sufficient, an audit should be carried out and the whole jam. He also says that this is an expensive and ineffective measure. But now you want to create a new institution, a competence centre for equal pay, and next year give EUR 200000 for information. The number of employees in the public sector is well below that of 200000, 135000 or what it is, and a total of one-and-a-half million. Why do you do this kind of shield work when you could order the ministers to audit and all the jam? Moreover, this concerns only one fifth of employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U62	Thank you for your question. The law has an obligation, all employers have one. The Ministry of Finance conducts regular public service salary audits. All these regular activities are taking place, but it hasn't gotten any better. There is still a pay gap in the public sector. The intention of the bill is not to punish in any way, there is no need for an order, there is no need for a fine or a precept. The leaders of organisations should be supported in ensuring that recruitment and remuneration practices, which are in each institution, are gender-sensitive. We can order a particular leader to change someone's salary, but it doesn't change attitudes, it doesn't change mind, it doesn't change anything for the future employees of this organization. So we have really found that this kind of advisory and guiding process, the path to transform internal processes, is what should be chosen. However, as far as information is concerned, all employers, not only public employers, but all employers, will be informed about the issues of equal treatment. The digital tool for assessing the gender pay gap in your institution will also be available to everyone. So awareness-raising costs are not only for the benefit of public sector employers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U63	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U64	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal refers to the practice of monitoring equality of pay paid to women and men in other countries. Examples are all from Europe, 13 countries, and they show that wage calculators, wage audits and the traffic lights of the pay gap, which allow self-assessment, are all good options for greater fairness, true, at first, in public wage policy. Do you have comparisons with the American continent, Canada and the United States? What methods are used there to achieve greater wage equality? Driven by one of the previous questions, I also ask you that when it comes to the public sector, how do you intend to deal with the issue of autonomy in the local government and how to improve the regulation there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U65	Thank you. Above all, we have looked at examples of Europe, among others, Iceland and such countries. The way we stand for equal pay in the United States is not in the explanatory memorandum, nor was it in the context of action. However, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I have already been enlightened that studies have shown that increased transparency of wages in America has led to higher pay for top executives, they receive stock bonuses there, etc. But I agree that there is a very different work culture, that wage agreements are different. I'm not sure we have anything to learn from it. Local authorities. In fact, these rules, which concern the working environment, safety at work and the Employment Contracts Act, extend to all organisations and exactly the same to local authorities. Local authorities and their institutions are still obliged to pay equal pay for equal work, and they must properly redesign these processes within the municipality. I do not see any concern in this sense; they have exactly the same duty as other authorities to do these things, just as the Ministry has a duty to comply with this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U66	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm trying to fit two questions in one minute. Question one. The equal pay competence centre set up by the Labour Inspectorate and its development for this purpose is set at around EUR 200000 per year. How many employees will it be, and are these additional or redistributive jobs? The second question concerns the use of the words 'wages' and 'wages' throughout the draft. You could say they're still relatively similar. Consequently, there is some reason why it is necessary to distinguish these two words in terms of supervision. Could you open it, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U68	Thank you. The Labour Inspectorate is designed to create six jobs. At the same time, the aim is to improve awareness of this new task, supervision throughout the organisation, so that maybe other inspectors, if they visit the employer on the spot, can speak or advise on this subject. So this impact and these skills to advise on this subject are likely to arise in the broader Labour Inspectorate. In addition to monthly salaries, people receive sometimes a performance fee or a bonus, it can be regular, it can be irregular and it can make up a pretty large part of the total income of people. The difference may also be that basic salaries are equal, but one sex receives more bonuses or bonuses. In fact, all additional charges should also be included in the analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U69	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! In response to Peter Ernits, you have come to talk about counseling, teaching, and raising. But according to the law in force, the Ministry of Social Affairs should probably advise, teach and grow in the same way, because the law has been in force for about 14 years. Where could this law - abiding employer receive these teachings and this counseling?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U71	Thank you. The Ministry of Social Affairs has dealt not only with the pay gap but with the whole issue of gender equality and is responsible for it. Over the years, advisors have also been trained. I may be wrong about this figure, maybe there are four advisers who really advise employers, are outreach and training for employers. In fact, within the framework of this existing budget, the Ministry of Social Affairs has also done these things on the issue of the gender pay gap, but this volume has undoubtedly not been sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U72	Urmas Kruuse. Rainer Vakra chose freedom. [[The Minister is laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I noticed in your report a reference to the fact that about a third of the salary depends on the negotiations, at least from your speech it seemed that way. I was beginning to wonder about the subject where the negotiations will remain in the future. But I am surprised that the public sector has such a huge pay gap. How will the authorities be provided with ranges to what extent their salaries could vary? Do you see in the future such a possibility of discrimination that we say that we need more men or women in a particular profession and that we are starting to, like, really discriminate? You're always talking about equality that nature doesn't give us from time to time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U74	Thank you. Indeed, wage ranges have been provided in the public sector, but these ranges are often very broad, for example in some occupations of EUR 1500.3000. After all, the negotiating space for this pay range is quite large and the pay gap can ultimately be double. It is simply important to avoid that, in the case of one sex, negotiations lead to a maximum at all times, and not to the other. You referred to discrimination when some processes do not take place, as of course. Even now, the law provides that if the competition has two equal candidates, the candidate who represents the under-represented group must be chosen as a man or a woman.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U75	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U76	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I think that such a calm and well-argued debate on this subject is certainly very necessary, and I am quite frankly pleased that today's debate here has largely been this way. The pay gap is not some sort of female thing; it is actually at least as much a matter for all men whose daughters, mothers or women receive 20% less pay for equivalent work than men who do the same work. I also think that the pay gap is not just a social issue, but actually an equally economic issue. I think that, in addition to collecting and analysing wage data, it is at least as important to encourage small girls, but also women, and to help them to harness and exploit their potential, for example, in business. This particular draft has already received quite a lot of criticism. You also pointed out at the beginning that every bill can always be improved. What part of this criticism are you prepared to introduce into the draft, or which part are you prepared to accept?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U77	Thank you. Actually, the bill has changed a lot. The fact that this has been narrowed down and applies only to the public sector, but also to the way in which the exchange and analysis of data is carried out, who does all of these things have been established in the drafting process. Similarly, the fact that we are talking about gender-based comparisons of wage data, is what these terms are all about. If there is to be an additional round of proposals, then, I am sure, there will be further proposals on what could be better formulated and what obligation could be made clearer. I can't tell you what the proposals are coming, but they're definitely coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U78	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U79	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'm sorry, but it seems to me that the problem is being dealt with adequately. Let's see the explanatory statement. This solution is more costly than you claim in the explanatory memorandum. I am concerned about why, under the budgetary impact of the draft, you have not analysed what amounts are going to go into the alleged gap, well, this gap is there to liquidate it. I'm talking about this salary bill that these institutions will also incur. Where do these resources come from? What size are we talking about? You're talking about this new office. What kind of pay are these employees going to get, do they really start getting equal pay for all six of them? So what's the 200,000 gonna mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U80	Thank you. Okay. Given that 200000 is a fixed cost per year, I think this is a very cheap and efficient measure. We are not talking about a 20% increase in the pay of women working in all public sector organisations. What we are talking about is that the head of the organisation looks into his organization and analyses whether, when new people are recruited, there will be an informed agreement with the person who will be taken into this job. After all, in the public sector, there is a wage increase almost every year. The question is, if there's any extra money, whose salary it's going to go up. If, as a result of the analysis, there is a wage gap within the organisation, and the action plan provides, for example, for two or three women who so far have not received equal pay for equal work, this additional money should be channelled there. But there is no plan for raising the wages of all women in the public sector from 1 January next year. This does not need to be done and therefore such costs will not be taken into account. Now these six people at the Labour Inspectorate. Equal pay for equal work means that there must also be equal work and equal responsibility. If the tasks are different, the salary may also be different.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U81	Hanno Pevkur. The Vakra is with us.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U82	Vakra's on our mind, yes. Got it. Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In general, I have always understood that the remuneration for the work done is still in the market and that it is precisely the ratio between demand and supply. There are certainly works that physically may seem very different and, given the different conditions, some of them are heavier, also different inputs and outputs on the labour market affect this remuneration. But I'd rather ask you about practice. How do you imagine it if there is such a collective of 20 to 30 employees? Let's get to the school that Heidy Purga asked about. There's a director and an IT teacher (IT has higher salaries) men and the rest are women. What's that practical change in school?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U83	Thank you. Wages are formed in the market, yes, but the rules laid down in the market have evolved from past patterns, from historical experience, from the fact that men first received education in the past, and from which sectors they moved. The fact that the market is now setting wages, I think, is not universally correct. The market also directs us boys to study IT and girls as kindergarten teachers. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, but it's historical, I don't know, the burden or the legacy or the burden we're dealing with, the basis on which these choices are made. If these choices are made as such, then our market values these choices in one way and another, and I think that is not right. Exactly the same is true of this example of a child psychologist. These skills are such, and the impact on the life of a young person may be that it can be more important work than anything we have paid for in society so far. But this is about reviewing our attitudes. I think the market is not the only one here. If our values change, the market will also pay a different salary in different positions. And this school example. Indeed, IT skills are specific skills and this speciality has a higher salary not only in the education sector but also in other sectors. The school needs to analyse what these skills are and what this competence is needed in one case and another and how we value it. This must be done openly and other teachers must understand it; they must know that the Director really has greater responsibility; he has other types of tasks. The principal's salary, I think, is higher in all schools than the grade teacher's. There is nothing to worry about, this is not a pay gap. The question is, do all the principals have to be men? Maybe we don't have to, maybe there's some way we can review it, so if there's another principal's competition, there's gonna be women among the candidates. This is not the kind of thing that needs to be redesigned at the day, but it is also important that the school deals with which people are recruited and how they are recruited, how these competitions take place, whether we have candidates of both sexes. [[The cavalry.]] Yeah, yeah. I would like to mention, for example, private sector operators who are consciously involved in this. That's what Sorainen and Swedbank are doing. If there is also an internal competition and there are two applications from men, they will propose to take part in the competition for a woman who is fit to fill this position. They are conscious of having candidates of both sexes. I think that's what our schools should do more.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U84	Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U85	Thank you. Minister, first of all, thank you for coming to the Riigikogu on this subject. The number of questions shows that there is interest. If it can be discussed, it's only very positive. First of all, I also regret that this draft concerns only the public sector and a very large part, or the private sector, remains outside and that this political agreement did not come at the end. But as they say, a better sparrow in his hand than a dove on the roof. Let's move on with the slices. The question, however, is that there is one minor wage gap in the Nordic countries. Why don't you tell me a little bit about what's been done there, that it's been achieved. For example, I have heard that Finland has a duty to disclose wages at all, that they are not classified and that this has contributed very much to reducing the pay gap. What do you think about this if, for example, we take such a step in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U86	Thank you. Indeed, in the Nordic countries, the pay gap is smaller, and in the Nordic countries, segregation in education and the labour market is not really what we do. There are more male school teachers and kindergarten educators, and there was also much earlier work to improve the reconciliation of work and family life. This will also help to prevent women from being at home mostly with children and men from having a career in the best working life. What was the other part of the question? [[A voice from the hall.]] Oh, yeah! Yeah, that's right, and the paychecks have been made public. In Finland, wages are also public. But that is an interesting question in itself. If companies were also critical of this draft, which would they choose, would it be public wages or the monitoring of the pay gap? Quite an interesting question in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U87	Honourable Riigikogu! At the moment, we in the Riigikogu are all wondering whether it is worth supplementing the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. There was this moment today when both Heljo Pikhof and Yoko Alender wanted to ask another question when their first question was answered. Under our rules, the President of the sitting will not give the floor immediately, although as President of the sitting, I would be happy to continue this debate if it concerned the same subject. Perhaps it would be worth supplementing the Home and Working Procedures Act in such a way that, for example, when it comes to the same subject, hands should be raised. The President then understands that this is a follow-up to this issue and that he urgently needs further discussion. The second option is that we have a very long list and Yoko Alender and Heljo Pikhof can only ask their second question, which may be the continuation of the first question, for example, half an hour later. Then neither the President of the sitting, nor the respondent, nor sometimes the questioner, will remember what he was asking for. So it's worth thinking about. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U88	Thank you. I have a procedural question. On the basis of which point of the Home and Working Procedures Act did you now receive the floor? Background: I am not in favour of such gender inequality if Yoko and Keit can ask their questions at first and I have to wait two hours in line. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U89	Good Jurgen! If I'm naming you a section and a subsection, I don't think you'll be able to identify if I'm responding adequately. But we will proceed according to the current rules and give the floor to Heljo Pikhof for the second question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U90	Thank you. It is a very good indicator that employers and labour inspectors also want to train on the amendments to this draft. But how do you plan to get these employers trained? I understand that their interest in this subject is, to say the least, lukewarm.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U91	Thank you. I'm not planning on coming here with the reporter's bill. However, occupational safety and work environment issues also mean costs for employers, but they are more of a negative issue, while training is also a part of it. I do not know whether more information needs to be made or whether you need to make personal contact and ask them to participate. If there's a problem, we have to deal with it. But I agree that maybe this training is not attractive for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U92	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I wanted to ask you about the other laws you referred to, which could still allow men who are under-represented sex to be kept in the education system, but let's leave it at that. We will come back to this another time, although I personally believe that this is a problem in both education and health. But now the question of this bill. How can we measure whether the draft is effective? Are there any metrics, are there specific objectives, how much salmon should narrow? Can you monitor the impact of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U94	Thank you. On the first side, I say that segregation and reconciliation of work and family life, those two things I thought about together. The parental benefit law is important for reconciling work and family life, for example. There are things that can be regulated at law level, but I agree that segregation in education is something that happens outside the law. Indeed, the draft states that four years after the law came into force, at the end of 2024, the Ministry of Social Affairs will carry out an analysis. It will examine the impact of its implementation on whether the pay gap has narrowed, in which institutions and to what extent. So this impact assessment is planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U95	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum accompanying the legislative amendment refers to the results of surveys, according to which only 6% of employers have provided information to employees about the situation of men and women in the organisation. Can you tell us why many employers do not fulfil this obligation to provide information?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U96	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U97	Thank you. Actually, I don't know. The same survey asked about the design of remuneration systems, how wages would develop. It is the same thing that only a third will be the result of negotiations. In addition, it was also examined whether the employer would provide feedback to employees, how equal opportunities for women and men are guaranteed and how remuneration is maintained in the organisation. But for what reason, I can't answer about it, I don't know if it's just a lack of awareness or unwillingness to do it. Yeah, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U98	Please, Vilja Thomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U99	Thank you. Dear waitress, Undoubtedly, we all deplore the gender pay gap, but my ear is affected by this example, which you are constantly producing in the framework of this draft, that child psychologists receive less pay than other workers. I work as a psychologist in the public sector, and I can assure you that both a female and a male psychologist will receive exactly the same salary there. But my question is that you said that there are regulations, but they are not being complied with. What makes you think this new bill will force these regulations to be complied with? Do you not want to increase red tape and give the state the role of babysitter, so that the state must start to coercive entrepreneurs, whether public or private, as if to discipline, raise or teach? I'm upset about these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U100	Thank you. Yeah, female and male psychologists can get equal pay. This example concerned the fact that the organisation has different jobs with very different profiles and wages have developed historically. We can take another example, perhaps a kindergarten teacher and... [[???Vahelehüüe saalist: 'Ma ei räägi sellest.'???]] But one type of occupation is carried out by people of one sex and other types of occupations by people of another sex, in fact they are very different jobs. It could be a person working behind the line or lifting heavy things versus a kindergarten teacher. Let's look at the responsibility, see the assignments, the effort at work. If there is an assessment of jobs, it may turn out that they are actually completely equivalent to work, but for some reason we are paying twice as much for one job. And in one organization... [[The cavalry.]] It contributes to the fact that we have a large pay gap in sectors at general level, not just in the case of different tasks. It may also be a marketing person selling goods produced by the person working behind this route. If these posts are very unevenly filled, one type of work is carried out by people of one sex, another type of work by people of another sex, and salaries have historically developed and do not look at the specific value that is created at the workplace, the responsibility that is there, it contributes to the pay gap. It preserves this segregation, which is why some type of work may not be attractive to men. I agree that a comparison between the pay of a female and a male psychologist is not a normal example, but these are things that we need to think about, and employers who shape remuneration systems need to think about it when assessing jobs. Second, we have all kinds of legal obligations. We're focused on the Labour Inspectorate. Once again, we are taking matters of safety, working environment and health at work. Yes, there's a legal obligation, but these things don't happen by themselves. Surveillance, it's clear, it's necessary. We are now using the exact same model for the analysis of gender-based wage data. If the obligation under the law is not complied with, advice will be used to make the change happen and supervision will also be used. If, for example, it is necessary to set out in the action plan the steps towards reducing the pay gap, then monitoring is also necessary. This is the same step as has been taken in many other legal acts. It doesn't make the country a bigger babysitter, as you said, than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U101	Honourable questioners! Let me remind you that you will all be able to ask two questions. Please avoid creating additional stories during your response. Let us think about those who, in 75 years' time, will read the verbatim report of today's sitting and everything that it says. So they wonder why this Riina Sikkut jumps from one subject to another. What the questioner says without leverage doesn't get into one or the other paperwork. It's a request. Besides, Monika Haukanõm today proved that more than one question can be placed in one minute, and if she takes the floor a second time, she will get four questions together. So much for a friendly suggestion. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U102	Good manager! Good minister! The point of the coalition agreement is being complied with, yet there is no plan for development, nor is it stated in the explanatory memorandum. Perhaps it would be enough to improve supervision and not have to change the law? My question, on the one hand, is why it has not been done. Our government has not really emerged yesterday. But how many of these 135,000 employees in the public sector are in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs and what is the gender pay gap among those in your administration? What have you done to make it minimal?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U103	Thank you. In this sense, it is really good to reply that the pay gap in the Ministry of Social Affairs is smaller than in other ministries. I'm not gonna bring out that rear top. But indeed, the Ministry of Finance puts together an analysis of the salaries of civil servants every year. The Ministry of Social Affairs has a pay gap from 9% to 6%. So in some cases, men get even less pay. Indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs has one-digit percentages, the situation is somewhat better than in other organisations, but nevertheless it should be further analysed, which should be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U104	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U105	Thank you very much. An hour ago, Pope Francis said that Estonia has moved forward with giant steps. As far as gender equality is concerned, there is no way to confirm this. For example, the same issue of pay gap we are discussing. Iceland has a law on equal pay, in other words, pay for equal work is a duty; it is forbidden not to pay it. I'm gonna come to a subject that already sounded like this. This is the issue of publicising wages raised by Urve Palo. I'll keep going. Not only in Finland, but also in Sweden, wages are public. In other ways, by paying income tax, all people can monitor each other's income tax, in fact, learn what the income of a person, a man or a woman is. And when we talk about the average wage gap in the European Union being 16%, in Sweden it is 11% to half that of ours. That's why I also think that...
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U106	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U107	... publicising wages could be a good, tangible result much faster than perhaps giving the Labour Inspectorate supervisory powers. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U108	Thank you. I also agree that making wages public would have a significant impact and perhaps a better result. But strangely, we cannot even agree to analyse and monitor the pay gap in the public sector. I can imagine how difficult it would be for our society to have this debate on the disclosure of wages. But I agree that we should keep this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U109	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It's very nice of you to be so patient here to explain these things. But you gave an example and mentioned the harmony of the gender pay gap as positive examples of Swedbank and Soraise law firms. As we know, there are both multinational companies, and there is great competition for each position. We bring a comparison from the public sector to the Estonian police. In order for someone to go to the police in a certain region at all, there are higher wage coefficients. How do you see this situation within the so-called framework of this draft? Where does this comparison come from if there is no competition and there is a need to make this job a little more attractive by raising wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U111	Thank you. Indeed, in addition to the gender pay gap, there are regional pay differences. Doctors who work in rural areas are paid starting allowance. In this case, some additional effort will be valued. It is a political decision on how we direct policemen, family doctors or anyone else to rural areas, Ida-Virumaa or south-eastern Estonia to work. But the gender aspect comes in there in such a way that this premium cannot be imposed on grounds of gender. If a male or female doctor or police officer wishes to go to work in Ida-Virumaa, then the premium should still be granted regardless of gender, as this is due to the regional aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U112	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U113	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! My follow-up question after your answer is that if every year the issue of pay gap is to be resolved through a'regular wage fund', not through additional contributions, then what year do you think this gender pay gap should be eliminated. Secondly, labour shortages in the public sector are also a daily phenomenon. What does this bill of yours bring? We probably need to start bringing migrant workers into these sectors as well. We are talking about education, health care, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board, already mentioned here. There are huge jobs where there are problems. Thirdly, are you moving in that direction to create a caste system: junior specialist, amount of x, senior specialist, amount of y, advisor, janitor, etc.? There would be a classification that would put our society within a very clear framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U114	Thank you. It is still up to each organisation's management to analyse and decide how many steps they take and how many years they will reduce the pay gap. According to the draft, this action plan could be implemented within two years. However, I do not know, perhaps there are organisations where the pay gap is 50% and it takes more time than small steps to move to this equality, but generally it seems that this two-year perspective could be realistic. I'm a migrant worker. In the public sector, we are not talking about adding jobs to six jobs in addition to the Labour Inspectorate, we are not talking about... [[A voice from the hall.]] Yes, I do not know, the proposals are only to reduce the number of employees in the public sector, perhaps with this smaller number of employees it will also be possible to fill these jobs. There is no migrant labour plan to fill public jobs, and I do not think there will be one. The box system. The background is that equal work must be paid regardless of gender. The rules that a top specialist has to get 10% more or less than a specialist, no one's gonna put it in place. In one organisation, the remuneration system should allow equal pay for equal work for women and men. There is no regulation of the pay gap between the different groups with different responsibilities and there is no intention to regulate it either. It can be put in place, agreed and communicated and negotiated by the management of the institution to its own authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U115	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U116	Thank you. There is certainly something in the pay gap that exists, it is at different levels in different countries, no one is contesting it. In any case, there is one principle that makes sense, and this principle is that when people do equally valued work, they also receive equal pay for it. Similarly, in my opinion, it makes sense and makes sense that the best possible person, regardless of his gender, is being recruited, is not gender-based discrimination in the same way or in the other. But in addition to the comment, I'd like to ask you a few specific questions. You replied earlier that you could also take the direction to impose the same burden on the private sector. I specifically ask you whether it is your wish to impose the same obligation as you have in the draft law, also on the private sector, and, if so, when. I ask for your personal opinion on what measures you have in order to reduce the pay gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U117	Thank you. As has already been shown on the basis of previous questions, I think it would be very easy for the private sector to choose whether we are going to make wages public or whether they are going to analyse gender-based pay within the organisation, and if there are differences, they will find a way to pay equal pay for equal work for men and women. Then we don't have to write it down, it might be a choice. Perhaps transparent public wages would produce a faster and better result in society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U118	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Equal pay for equal work is very difficult to weigh in terms of law, to be quite honest. You have even highlighted many differences in this debate. I am not quite sure whether statistics can take these differences into account, given what the future labour market is and how flexibly we intend to work. Even the disclosure of wages in the public sector has not helped to close a certain gap that you expect from the private sector. But what should an employer who, as a result of negotiations and competitions, has received the best employee who asks for less than has been paid for this work in this institution so far? How is he supposed to behave, and should he pay him right away?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U120	Yeah, I should pay more right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U121	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U122	Oops! [[U. Kruuse comments from the hall.]] Yeah, that was the last question. The first was equal pay for equal work. Yes, it is difficult to assess, from the outside it is very difficult to assess which work is equal, where this contribution and effort are equal. Thus, it remains up to the employer to analyse and decide. He knows what the skills he needs, what the outcome he expects from one post and another, and he can still make them comparable.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U123	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U124	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for this important draft. This is undoubtedly an important, albeit small, step in the promotion of gender equality. It's a long way to go. Here's the question. It is known that women often choose less ambitious tasks, although the job name can be the same and the position can be the same because they are overloaded with home care work, often with higher maintenance costs than men. As a result, they may also have lower wages, as they choose less ambitious tasks. Would further changes in laws, such as family law, be needed to ensure that the prerequisites for a more equal participation in society as well as for a more equal pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U125	Thank you. Indeed, although the law provides that no one should be discriminated against because of pregnancy, having a child or family responsibilities, nor should a lower salary be paid as a result, I agree that practice may differ from this. The parental benefit law, which allows the father and mother to work in both places and take care of the part-time child, has already been mentioned here, so that the burden of caring for the child is equally shared. This is one step in order not to create a big hole in working life and not to create unequal responsibilities in caring for the child, but it is a small step. In addition, care burden arises when caring for elderly parents or disabled children. I agree that there is still a long way to go, that this burden is equal and that it would affect the participation of the two sexes equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U126	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U127	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Obviously, you've done a lot of brainstorming, and you've got a lot of good answers to all the strange questions. Please solve the real situation: there are three municipal saunas in Tallinn and the sauna has traditionally served as a sauna aunt. Now, if some saunas want to go to work there, how and how is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U128	Thank you. I really don't understand the problem of recruiting saunas. The Kalma sauna or the Iron Sauna can hire a male sauna uncle, yes, and pay him the same salary as a woman.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U129	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U130	Good minister! You said the reasons for the pay gap were elsewhere. Then let me quote. Studies to date have shown that the labour market is gender-discriminatory with its vertical and horizontal gender segregation. I guess, for example, the 'price' of medical and educational workers on the labour market is considerably lower than that of IT specialists. This means that, in essence, we will not solve the problem of the pay gap with this bill, but we will offer supervision. At the same time, the supervisory system is already in place in the current laws, i.e. employers need to ensure that the pay gap is not created. Here's the question. Is it right to impose an obligation on employers to identify and eliminate such systemic or societal causes? Turns out the reasons are elsewhere, but we're punishing the employer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U131	Thank you. Indeed, for historical reasons, we are not changing the social attitudes and rules of this bill. The causes of the pay gap are much wider than what a particular employer pays someone as a salary. But this is the part where this bill helps to ensure that women and men receive equal pay for equal work in the workplace. Indeed, there is also a monitoring element because this obligation has not been fulfilled. But there are other reasons. These concerns that women have more interruptions in working life due to caring for their children or that they leave the labour market earlier in order to care for their older parents, do not resolve this bill, need to be dealt with further. The same is true of segregation in education. Why are young people already making educational choices that traditionally lead to jobs with different pay? This is a small step, and I think that this EUR 200000 is also a small cost, so we cannot solve the whole pay gap problem. This is one aspect where we can make things better, but in all other places we must continue to tackle the pay gap in order to ensure that both genders are equal in education and that the burden of caring for children is more equally shared.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U132	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U133	Thank you. This last answer, however, can only be accepted and can also be accepted that this is a very important problem. But I am very doubtful whether any position and national compulsion at all are an effective way of solving this major problem. Just as a fire cannot be extinguished with a pipette, it is unlikely that the six officials will be able to solve such a fundamental issue. But am I on the wrong path when I say that a large part of this reason is that, for certain logical reasons, some work is still regarded as men's work and parts are regarded as women's work? Am I on a very wrong path when I say that with the development of robots, artificial intelligence, and technology, we come to the conclusion that human physical qualities are less and less important? If we actually create such an environment that these new jobs can come to Estonia, we will also create more equal opportunities for different genders in Estonian working life.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U134	Thank you. Although the content of the draft, this important change, concerns supervision, instead of coercion, the focus is still on advising employers to support the restructuring of the organisation's internal processes so that recruitment and remuneration are relevant to gender aspects. But now the robots. Indeed, the most likely is that physically difficult and routine work will be automatized first. This effect on one or the other sex may be stronger. At the same time, I do not know clearly which sex it affects more. For example, sewing robots leave a large proportion of the seamstress unemployed, and in our world it is likely to affect more women's jobs. At the same time, all of the more physically difficult work, lifting something or operating machines, lines, perhaps involves more men's jobs. What's the balance at the end, which is the greater impact, I can't tell you right now. But no doubt that's the effect. When we talk about the automation and digitalisation of jobs, there are also clear risks of new gaps, unlike the gender gap, they are more age-based or skills-based, that they are able to go along with the world of new jobs due to the existence of digital skills and who are left behind. We certainly must also address this gap in order to equip as many people as possible, regardless of gender, with the skills that will enable them to be valuable in the future labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U135	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U136	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I will continue with the question of Heidy Purga as to why only 6% of employers have informed employees and provided information on the situation of men and women in the company. Some employers point out that although the law that requires it has been in force for some time, there is still one government regulation that should be submitted by the Minister for Social Affairs and which would establish which data should be collected and how they should be analysed. Do you have any information that the Minister of Social Affairs of this government is about to submit this regulation to the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U137	The same draft actually specifies what the data should now be stored by the company in order to allow for a gender-based analysis. Indeed, this obligation existed earlier and this data element is now being clarified in this draft. But this salary information 6% will probably go back to the fact that in our entire society, wages are somehow very personal information that is not readily shared. The example that I have given is that when you talk to the Statistical Office or the Market Research Interviewers, it turns out that the worst answer is the question of income. Even if there is a given range and there is no need to give a specific number, this is a question that is often left unanswered. This information is somehow perceived as private, although according to the law, there is no prohibition on disclosure of their salary data and such a clause may not actually be included in the employment contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U138	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U139	Dear Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. According to the draft, an ex ante assessment, i.e. a hazard forecast, is carried out on the basis of the unadjusted gender pay gap figure of the organisation. That is my question: how can such a general statistical indicator give rise to suspicion that someone has been placed under less favourable terms and conditions than a worker of the same or equivalent sex? Maybe you've already touched on that in your answers today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U140	Thank you! I agree that this is a general calculation. In fact, information is provided in the register of work, like by occupation, and businesses could also be given more detailed calculations. This is a matter of debate, but it is now agreed that the first assessment is based on a single number of organisational gender pay differences, the total difference between gross hourly wages for men and women is calculated in the organisation. Maybe if we only took one organization, it would be difficult to conclude anything. If we do this for all public sector organisations, there will be peaks, where differences are greater, places that should be looked at more and analysed, whether there are objective reasons for the emergence of such large gender-based pay differences, or whether there are attitudes behind them, pay systems that are unthinkable and unmodern. I agree, this one assessment is general, but it gives an initial reflection of what the situation in this institution is. If this is a concern, it should be analysed in more detail whether or not there are differences that have been identified for objective reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U141	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U142	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress, Minister! The question is this: can you explain the pay gap between teachers working in state secondary schools, municipal secondary schools, private schools and kindergartens in the same work? The teachers give everyone 24 hours, for example, but the wages are different. While Mr. Ligi was the Minister of Education, he left like bangs in the hands of teachers. A senior teacher, a junior teacher and a teacher-methodician when they don't exist anymore, but the salaries are different. I can say, for example, that I'm a chemistry teacher and my salary is definitely different from the average salary because I'm unique. There are quite a few of them, of all kinds. That's where the differentials come from. How do you explain that there is a public wage gap in state secondary schools, municipal schools and kindergartens?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U143	Thank you. Salary should be proportionate to responsibility and duties. If there are jobs that have been assessed as equal, people could receive equal pay regardless of gender. If teachers have different tasks or different workloads, different careers, different skills, there should be no difference in pay based on gender.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U144	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is whether Estonian authors and artists should be treated equally. Let me give you a simple example. When the Ministry of Social Affairs invites Anne Veski and Nublu to perform at the Christmas party, they are equally remunerated, because the money you pay them to perform is public money. In order for this bill to be credible, you could start with your own ministry. Can we be sure of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U146	Thank you. This draft actually concerns the payment of remuneration when an employer enters into contractual relations with an employee within the organisation. In the case of purchased services, it is either a performance or a catering service, it is what a performer gets, for example, in the form of remuneration, and other costs, it is the cost of leverage, musical equipment or background singers that are included. Since the Ministry of Social Affairs isn't paying Anne Vek and Nublu's salary, I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U147	Me too. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U148	Thank you. The purpose of the database you create is to compare the pay data of women and men, to identify the difference between the average hourly wages of female and male workers and to inform the employer about this. It takes hundreds of thousands. At the same time, the Estonian Research Council has financed the RITA programme's study 'Determining the gender pay gap'. By the end of 2021, instruments and solutions to reduce the pay gap will be scientifically developed. The cost of the study is planned at EUR 650000. Why is it necessary to create a new database before the results of the research are known, or why is it necessary to spend money on research if you already have the necessary database and analysis methodology?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U149	Thank you. This RITA-funded project is the analysis I referred to, which seeks to understand what the pay gap is about. Indeed, there is an attempt to clarify 85% of our pay gap and to propose ways of solving this problem. There's a lot of this 85% inside of it, I don't know, social attitudes, stereotypes that can be redesigned in kindergarten. The measures that emerge from this study are much wider than what we are looking at here, so that the employer has to pay equal pay for equal work. They complement each other. That is what turned out to be the causes of the pay gap are different. This draft is one step towards reducing the pay gap, the RITA study and its results are the next step.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U150	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U151	Do you think it would make sense to review our ministry's salary levels? It has been found that, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a lower wage level, and it is also known that there are a lot of women working there. Do you think it would be informative and that would be interesting information?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U152	Thank you. On the basis of this draft, too, all public sector organisations must actually make this clear to themselves. If there is a pay gap, if it appears that the level of women's pay is significantly different from that of men, then in the organisation, whether it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or another, this analysis must be carried out in order to understand what causes the pay gap and whether it is because female workers with equal responsibilities and responsibilities are remunerated differently from male workers. If that is the case, then we need to find a way to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U153	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Equals are treated equally and unequally. If we wait for the bus, we will probably not see whether a man or a woman is driving because we think he is doing the job just as well as a person of a different sex. But let's say one headmaster really, really wants the boys to be taught work and physical education by a male teacher, and he makes that decision, even though a female teacher is also a very good candidate. Do you look at this director in a wrong way when he makes a decision in favour of a man solely because of his gender?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U155	Within the framework of this draft, it is still a question of pay, of equal pay. However, if recruitment reveals that in this school, teachers of work education and physical education are all female and there are two candidates, a male candidate and a female candidate in the competition, the current law says that preference should be given to the representative of the under-represented group. So in that case, recruiting a man is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U156	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U157	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! How to explain the behaviour of Tallinn University a couple or three-four years ago? When students were taken into the teaching department, the male students got in without testing, but the female students had to experiment. How can such behaviour be explained from the point of view of equality?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U158	Well, students don't get paid there. But I don't know the broader context of whether the same thing applies here, that when classes are completed, many classes are assembled in such a way that there are, for example, 12 boys and 12 girls to ensure numerical gender equality. I cannot tell you whether there was a question of gender imbalances at Tallinn University or why this unequal treatment took place on the basis of gender. I really don't know how to comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U159	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U160	Thank you. In 2014, the European Commission recommended that countries increase wage transparency within organisations in order to reduce the pay gap between women and men by making available average fees for categories of workers or jobs in companies with more than 50 employees for men and women. This minimum number of employees is set to avoid excessive administrative burdens on employers. In Estonia, this obligation is intended to be imposed on all employers, including micro-enterprises. Why have the drafters not followed the recommendations of the European Commission, and why are small businesses being bullied in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U161	Thank you. In my opinion, the Commission has formulated this obligation in a company with at least 50 employees, i.e. in fact the State may decide to do so in the case of smaller organisations, but the Commission thinks that, from at least 50 employees, this obligation could exist. We have decided that ten employees in the organisation are the limit if a gender-based wage analysis could be carried out. After all, Estonian companies are usually small compared to companies from other European countries, and our institutions, including public sector institutions, are considerably smaller than elsewhere. In the case of other rules, whether they are statistics or funding rules, we support the fact that the differences between the smaller Member States are also taken into account. It is not possible to establish the same rules for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U162	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U163	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I understand that Estonian entrepreneurs must be ten times better than European entrepreneurs. It has already been touched on here once, but I want to come back to it, too, that according to the laws in force, the Ministry of Social Affairs must give instructions and assist and advise everyone on the application of the principles of equal treatment. Can you give an overview of how many guidelines and areas have been issued and what these guidelines tell us, how progress has been made in implementing it over the last 14 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U164	Thank you. Indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs has drawn up guidelines for employers and has trained employers' advisors. There have been analyses of what we have in the pay gap and what measures might be to reduce it. Employers' remuneration schemes have been analysed. There have been different activities. For a more detailed overview of the activities of the Equality Policy Department, I can send you later if I wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U165	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Listening to the debate in this Chamber today, we have heard opinions from the wall to the wall, so why only the public sector, why not the private sector, etc. I looked at the country-specific recommendations of the European Commission. In fact, the recommendations we have been given over the last three years have been very seriously addressing the issue of the pay gap, but it is pointed out that this should also be done in the private sector. There is no difference between the private sector and the public sector, with a pay gap of around 22% in both sectors. In the explanatory memorandum, I did not find a very clear answer to the question on which arguments we have reached today's solution for why the public sector. You yourself also said that you would have preferred a more ambitious draft. Perhaps why such a choice? I'm not telling you at the moment whether I think it's right or not. And the other half of the question. I think we've got rules for a ten-man facility. Is this information correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U167	Yes, indeed, ten and more employees, in which case a gender-based wage data analysis should be carried out. And the public sector, indeed, all these digital tools and advice from the Labour Inspectorate will also be available to private operators, but supervision was limited to the public sector. It was a purely political decision. To make it compulsory for all employers in Estonia, you did not come.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U168	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U169	Thank you. Any drafts must be drawn up in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, we don't see that in this law. Why is it so panicky and so hasty here that this bill came to our desks in violation of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U170	Thank you. Indeed, it is extremely regrettable that so many drafts are being prepared without the intention of being developed and are being moved forward in an urgent manner. All I have to say is better next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U171	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Last but not least, maybe it is urgent, but I understand from today's debate that the Ministry advises and knows how to deal with the pay gap. After all, today's law is going to add to it and it will seem that this planned RITA study on reducing the gender pay gap means EUR 650000 cast off. This study will have to be completed by the end of 2021. You know everything anyway, and you know how to do it, and life is going. Then why the research?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U173	Thank you. No. As I have said many times, we still have an unexplained pay gap of 85%. To understand what the attitudes and stereotypes of which this inexplicable part is made are the focus of this RITA study, and on this basis measures can be developed. Exactly as I said, there are obviously attitudes that need to be developed in kindergarten and school in order to influence people's educational choices so that we do not have jobs for men and women. That's where the spike goes. At the moment, we are talking about setting up recruitment and remuneration schemes by employers in their organisations so that they take gender aspects into account. These two things complement each other and together lead to a reduction in the pay gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U174	Hardi Volmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Minister! Let's just say that if we went to the wording of this problem and removed the epithet of'sex'? I think we have a rather important so-called mother problem, in fact, in the overall pay gap in the public sector. Do you agree with my statement or do you want to challenge it?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U176	Thank you. I agree that these gaps, they are regional or national, are more present in our labour market than only based on gender, but the gender pay gap is very large, it has so far been well analysed and there are concrete measures to reduce it. The focus is therefore on gender aspects. But I agree that there are different gaps in the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U177	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U178	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your very thorough and balanced answers. I do not think there is a single person in this Chamber who, for example, has a son and daughter at home and who would be very pleased that if these children were to hold the same profession in the future, they would be paid differently. Perhaps bringing up such an idea will raise fewer questions in the future. But the question is that the sectoral pay gap is a very important part of this. Poverty, old age, and carer are generally a woman's face. In social work, in welfare, but also in healthcare care, carers are mostly women, which also leads to very low wages. If the government were to look at the fact that in certain sectors where most working people are often women, the rise in pay numbers would be a little faster, then perhaps men would also start working there and offer their support and assistance to women who have to work very hard. Would you be willing to carry it on as a member of the government, perhaps as a future member of the government, as an idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U179	Thank you. These decisions, for example, on the rise of teachers' pay, have not been gender-based, but it is important for those who hold such a significant position in society to have a significant increase in wages. The same is true in social welfare. Whether men or women perform this function of caring or providing healthcare, wage increases in this area are inevitable. It's absolutely necessary, so I'm sure I'll stand up for it. I hope that this wage increase will also bring a better gender balance to these activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U180	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U181	Thank you very much. I was prompted to ask this question by Mr Hardi Volmer's very correct thesis. This also ties very well with what the Pope has just said about the coherence of society as a whole. I too, as your predecessor, had much to do with the fact that, for example, retirement or retirement age exclusion and potentially poorer wage arrangements were somehow turned or turned to their advantage in such a way that such a thing would not happen. It is also actually known that there is a gap between the salaries of different nationalities and those of other social groups in certain regions. Can it be assumed that any government policy will follow the assumption that we will not artificially make decisions that are harmful to such vulnerable groups? For example, could it be criticised for the recent decision that working pensioners were taxed higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U182	Thank you. Indeed, we have many attitudes that put some groups at a disadvantage in working life. They're not just gender-based. Older people are a very important group whose chances of finding and staying in work, as well as the amount of wages, are often shaped on the basis of incorrect attitudes. This amendment needs to be addressed in parallel. There are groups, such as the Russian-speaking women of retirement age in Ida-Virumaa, who are in many ways caught by cogs. The pay gap is very large for these people and the gender aspect is very important there. So reducing the gender pay gap will actually significantly improve the situation of those people who are in a poorer position in many respects. Now on pensioner taxation. If I recall correctly, four out of ten, or even a little more, pensioners remained in the same situation with regard to the introduction of this EUR 500 tax-free minimum, because their monthly incomes are so low that they remained below EUR 500 before the introduction of the EUR 500 tax-free minimum and remain below EUR 500 after that. Five out of ten pensioners won because, according to the old system, they would have had to pay income tax on their pension or pension and working income. Now, when that rate went up, they kind of won. Indeed, less than one pensioner in ten is the one whose working income exceeds 1200 euros or also 2100 euros. We also have pensioners who earn EUR 4200 per month. They really are now paying income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U183	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U184	Thank you. Here's the question. Do you have an overview of the salaries and pay gaps in other ministries besides your ministry? If you issue such a law, then the government should set an example for other organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U185	Thank you. These numbers are given as professional groups, are specialists, top specialists and management. This information is available from all ministries. I don't remember all the numbers by heart. At the Ministry of Justice, the pay gap of top specialists must have been 24%. There's big numbers like that in there. This information is, in my opinion, available on the website of the Ministry of Finance, where there is a public service salary report, where you can look at the state of the ministry. But overall, in the public sector as a whole, the pay gap is larger in lower positions, smaller in top management. The pay gap may have been 6.6% among top managers, but it is also the part of the public sector with the lowest number of women. Perhaps the few women who take the lead have more or less equal pay for men, but those who work in lower jobs and who have more pay are lower than male colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U186	Thank you, Minister Riina Sikkut! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U187	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Since the debate has been very thorough here today and the Minister has also answered all the questions that have arisen with great substance, I will remain minimalist in my presentation. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at its meeting on 18 September, chaired by Marko Pomerants, chairman of the committee. Jüri Adams, Hanno Pevkur, Helmut Hallemaa, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb, Peep Aru and Tiit Terik took part. As usual, there was no Jaak Madison. The minister introduced the bill, and I am not going to go over it here because he has done it thoroughly today. I will give a brief overview of the issues raised in the Commission. Lauri Luik wondered how much the cost of the change could be. They replied that according to the figures included in the explanatory memorandum, 256000 EUR were planned for 2020 and some 200000 EUR per year thereafter. Lauri Luik also wondered whether new people would be employed to implement the changes. It was said that some people were indeed employed by the Labour Inspectorate in order to monitor equal pay. Mr Pevkur wondered why it was considered necessary to lay down the concept of public sector employer in the draft. Hasn't it been done elsewhere? The answer was that the concept of a public employer may differ from one law to another, and its clarification in this draft is necessary in order to make it clear where the Labour Inspectorate will monitor compliance with the principle of equal pay. Hanno Pevkur then asked why the distinction between state secrets and classified foreign information is only provided to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, although some other ministries also have a bearing on such information. It was answered that other ministries had not raised such a problem and that is why only the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Home Affairs have limited the application of this rule to staff working on state secrets. They asked why they wanted to create a new database. It was said that this was not a new database, but that it was intended to automatically link together the data already provided to the state by companies or employers as much as possible, free of administrative burdens, in order to provide gender-based wage comparisons to employers in the spirit of zero bureaucracy. Mr Pevkur felt that changes to the law often had little use and, above all, awareness-raising should be addressed. The Minister replied that awareness-raising activities had not produced the desired result, although they were good things, and consequently further action was needed. Member of the Commission Ossinovski said that raising awareness is actually also one of the main tasks of the draft, providing the necessary non-bureaucratic mechanism to make employers more aware of the gender pay gap within their organisation. This is often the case, or it is generally the case that the gender pay gap has not arisen because the driver has deliberately wanted to discriminate, but has arisen gradually, as a result of individual decisions. It has come as a surprise to some employers, when they have seen a large picture of wages in their organisations, that men get more on average than women. There are different reasons, for example, that men are more prone to ask for a raise than women and in time it will accumulate. Jüri Adams was interested in the broader function of the Labour Inspectorate. The Minister replied that the Labour Inspectorate was a subsidiary of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which oversees public health and safety at work and also resolves labour disputes. Jüri Adams expressed an interest in the concept of administrative supervision. The Legal Adviser explained that administrative supervision is provided for in the Government of the Republic Act and the State Supervision Law on Orders. Administrative supervision is the control of the activities of one administrative body in the exercise of its administrative function. Hanno Pevkur asked what is meant by the term 'pay gap traffic light'. The Minister replied that, by reference to the traffic lights for the pay gap, the technological solution would be created, which would provide the institution or company with a first assessment of the organisation's pay gap on the basis of the registration data. For example, there is no big pay gap in the organisation with a green light, but there is a red one. The Ministry of Social Affairs also intends to develop a guide on evaluation and comparison of works, which will explain, among other things, how traffic light assessments are made. Jüri Adams also considered that the opinion of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu should also be asked about this draft. Then they went to decisions. It was proposed that the draft be put on the agenda today; this decision was consensual. It was then proposed that the first reading be completed. There were 6 members of the Commission (Helmut Hallemaa, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb and Tiit Terik), Jüri Adams was impartial and the remaining members abstained. It was proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 10 October, the decision being consensual. It was then decided, also by consensus, to appoint Mr Ossinovski, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U188	Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the committee rapporteur? Raivo Põldaru, I understand, wants to participate in the negotiations. [[A voice from the hall.]] There are two questions. One, two... and three is already a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U190	I'm opening negotiations. For the Social Democratic Party Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U191	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable colleagues! As Social Democrats seven years ago with posters 'no pay gap! " The wages of Estonian women and men differed by more than 30%. Today this difference is 25.3% according to Eurostat and 20.9% according to Statistics Estonia. In this way, the woman's salary in Estonia is either a quarter or a fifth less than the man's salary. The gender pay gap in the European Union is 16%, which in turn means that Estonia continues to represent the largest gender pay gap in the European Union. Neither is the fact that, in recent years, the European Union, namely the European Commission, has urged Estonia to step up its efforts to reduce the pay gap, in other words, reduce inequalities between women and men. A country-specific recommendation actually means an order to work for a Member State. The programme of action of the Government of the Republic, i.e. the government agreement for the period 2016 to 2019, provides that in order to reduce the pay gap, the Labour Inspectorate is to be empowered to supervise the salaries and benefits paid by women and men for the same or equivalent work by the employer. There is now a compromise before the members of the Riigikogu, which obliges the public sector above all to pay equal pay for equal work. A question that is equivalent to work is a clear answer in a legislative amendment: work is equivalent if it is assessed as equivalent in terms of complexity, responsibility, difficulty, conditions and result to be achieved. Thus, this is the answer to the bearded question about the equivalence of the work of the car repairer and maintenance worker. The state and public undertakings must, of course, set an example for the private sector. By the way, in terms of the gender pay gap, both the public and the private sectors are equally sinful, as the Minister pointed out, as remuneration is 22% in favour of men in both sectors. I believe that the law must be universal, but at the same time the government must be commended, because it is better to have half of the racket than nothing at all. Now for the change of law itself. There is going to be an amendment to the Gender Equality Act, which, just as with bureaucracy, will have to start collecting gender-based data. But that's not in the law, on the contrary. The digital tool developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs helps to bring together data collected in different databases on the basis of contactless monitoring, in particular the Tax and Customs Board, as well as the Statistical Office. As a result of linking the data, the employer gets a clear picture of the actual situation in the organisation. If contactless surveillance, the so-called pay gap traffic traffic, shows unequal treatment of workers, then there will be an obligation to carry out a salary audit. In fulfilling this obligation, however, there is one thing: a public employer with less than 10 employees is not entitled to request a gender-based analysis of salary data. Personally, I very much hope that the so-called 'wage gap traffic', which will soon start to work in the public sector, will also gain popularity in the private sector. Further readings on the issue of reducing the pay gap in the Riigikogu will probably be substantive. For too long in Estonia, we have endured ridiculous or degrading thinking about gender equality. It is time to turn over a new page and see what can be done together to reduce inequalities. That is exactly what the gender pay gap is: inequality due to the gender of people. It is prohibited under both the Constitution and the Gender Equality Act. Today's first reading will contribute to a change in the gender pay gap, a reduction in the gender pay gap, if the draft is approved. That's what you have to stand up for. We Social Democrats call on all the political groups in the Riigikogu to support this worthy amendment, so that there is less inequality in Estonia and the realization that the economic independence of women is a human right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-25_U192	It's 1:00.27. We'll resume the negotiations tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
