ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! If I may now draw your attention, we will begin the first Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. As always at the beginning of the sitting, it is the right time to ask whether you have a wish to hand over drafts or questions. That's not what you want. Next, please register as present. Please, let's do the presence check! 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; there are no 26 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, We have one item on the agenda today, namely the Act on the Implementation of the Law of Property Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the Amendment of Other Laws, i.e. the amendment of the fee for tolerating the utility network. The number of this bill is 405. The second reading report is presented by Mr Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council. If we usually come here before you and say that we have a very good bill, rather often we do so, though not in opposition, today I declare, in a completely neutral position, that I have a draft here that I cannot say whether it is good or bad. The specific nature of this draft is that we have discussed it for a very long time in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The debate actually started in April last year, then I think it was the first session. The Commission has now discussed this times three, four or even five, I will look after it, I have protocols here and I have to tell you all about them, but the result is still that you take it the same way or the other way, that there is still no party, that maybe they are the least of the government, that the owners of the infrastructure or the landowners are satisfied with the result. At the same time, of course, the situation is that since 2012, we have basically no existing regulation in this regard, because the 2012 Supreme Court ruling declared the situation in force or at that time illegal as regards farm charges. There has been no very good solution to the horizon in five years either. What I am now presenting to you is, in itself, such a small two-to-three-page draft, which has only one amendment, which is made by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and that is also the time limit for its entry into force. This includes, as has been said, a huge number of meetings and meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs and a huge number of letters from the people and companies involved. The last letter came from Elektrilevi this morning and there are further details, actually dissatisfied with the content of this bill, but nothing quite new that we did not already know. I will now go to the part which is today my task as rapporteur to talk about what has taken place in the Riigikogu Legal Committee between the first and second reading of this draft. We had a debate on 16 November. Representatives of the Information Technology Association, representatives of Elektrilev, owners of infrastructure as well as representatives of owners' organisations were invited. Then we discussed it back and forth, explained it. The government has explained its position, the Ministry of Justice has worked on it. To sum up, this is one of the first drafts in which I say that if we have had a debate in society about whether or not a member of the Riigikogu would need an assistant, I feel that this time I really need one. I would have gladly handed it to some helper and said, "Hey, be good and come out with some kind of salomonic truth, 'cause if I listen to one side and the other separately, even in the committee session, I feel that both are right all the time. It seems to me that the electrification is absolutely right when it represents its views, but I have this feeling that the owners are also right when they represent their views. To the point. In fact, the fact that, if we now raise farm charges to a large extent, we will satisfy the needs of the owners, but sooner or later these tariffs will pass through the service, for example, in the price of electricity, but as consumers, we will pay for it all. Is that what we want? Suspicious. At the same time, do we want to violate the rights of owners and say that the owner has to endure any burdens without a fair reward? It's not exactly right either. So he's a little bit of a choice between plague and cholera. However, a debate took place on 16 November, no other decisions were taken than the Commission's continuing debate. We reunited on December 11, and we discussed it again. There were many questions and answers, but the result was still that the Commission decided to continue the debate (the decision was consensual). We then resumed the debate in the Commission on 18 December and then reached procedural decisions. It was proposed that this draft be put on the plenary agenda for today. In fact, it was proposed to put the draft on the agenda by 10 January, but later, last week, this decision was amended because it was better put on today's agenda. The second reading was proposed to be closed (with 6 votes against, 0 abstentions) and sent to third reading when the second one is closed by 17 January (also 6 votes against, 0, abstentions 3) and put to the final vote (also 6, 0 votes against and 3 abstentions). I don't know if you have any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U4	Good waitress, when your report is over, at least one question is for you. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U5	Thank you. Good waitress! I very much agree with your assessment that it is difficult to take a clear position on whether to be in favour or against, because there are many nuances here. Please, would you recall why the amount of the farm premium is calculated on the basis of 7,5% of the tax price of the land rather than on the basis of the market value of the à la what the land could actually have? Why 7.5?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U6	That's a good question. This is the example of what I'm talking about looking for a church in the middle of the village, but it's not really a church. There were very specific examples. According to the Ministry, the tax price for some type of land-for-profit land could, for example, be EUR 5 for certain coefficients. The owners, however, considered that this could be EUR 130 on the basis of exactly the same adjustment. That's where we are sometimes. This 7.5 has been put here with the idea that since the maximum percentage of land taxation is 2.5, the 7.5 will in any case cover it. It means that this 2.5 is certain and 7.5 is precisely the 2.5 which is the maximum rate of taxation of the land that the municipality can decide, and in addition, depending on the extent to which the use of the land is prevented, the additional coefficient is either 0.5 or 1. If you are completely prevented from using your land, you will receive a 7.5 and, in addition, you will be compensated as the owner for one-off expenses in case you have to do something specific. If the use of the land is not prevented at all or another option, by the way, if no compensation is made and if this infrastructure is needed to meet your own needs, it is completely zero, i.e. it is not 7.5%. I don't know if I answered your question. I'm saying basically, when you read this bill or when you read it, it's all simple, it's short, it's understandable, everything seems completely understandable. However, if you start to look at the minutes, letters, views and debates of the sittings, this is the jungle and the maze. The final conclusion was that, on the one hand, the infrastructure companies wanted to receive clearer guidance from the government, for example, it should not be stated in the law that the charge is a normal charge for the use of the building. Such an expression, in itself, is very fluctuating. But at the same time, the Department says, okay, if you can't reach an agreement with the owner, then go argue this dispute in court. That could be right. We do not know, at the same time, what is the result of this law, whether we have a huge number of litigation or nothing, because people really do agree. There were also examples that, in the event of another form of pricing being put in place, the conduct of an electric cable on Viru street for one house could in principle cost Elektrilevi 4600 euros, monthly or yearly, in any case no less. Such extreme examples and mathematical models are infinite. So, in some ways, there is the hope that the owners and infrastructure companies will come to an agreement. If they do not arrive, the court should be able to decide what this fair remuneration and compensation is to compensate the holder for the restriction on his use of the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U7	Hatter, please ask another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U8	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, thank you! Indeed, this issue has actually been raised by the Chancellor of Justice, who has referred to the violation of constitutionality, which comes from the fact that the landowner bears too much responsibility for farming. If so far there has been compensation of up to EUR per hectare, we are talking about an amount of up to EUR 10 per hectare. Do you think that the constitutional barrier to such prices has been resolved? Can the Chancellor of Justice be satisfied with the work of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U9	I cannot now predict what the Chancellor of Justice will say, because I am undoubtedly not as competent as the Chancellor of Justice. See, I just cried for the missing assistant. However, in principle, this violation of the constitution, which has so far been referred to, is due to the fact that the land tax paid by the landowner is higher than that paid by the infrastructure companies. There is a contradiction that a person's own direct expense and direct tax on the state is greater than it will actually be compensated for afterwards. The current model eliminates this contradiction. Would you consider it sufficient? I say that there will be a dispute between the owners and the companies it will hit, and certainly also between the consummers who will eventually have to pay for it. Whether it is considered a constitutional offense, however, I can no longer decide or appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U10	Next, I would like to ask Mr Sults. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U11	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good waitress! It's a simple question. You mentioned a lot of subjective factors in the agreement and how it would be more reasonable or better. They talk to each other, and then they shake hands. What particular formula, formula or matrix is proposed to calculate these things in order to avoid pointless long disputes and agreements that all ultimately smell a little bit? Were there any such concrete, concrete, unambiguous formulas proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U12	Thanks, that's a good question! Actually, the answer is two-sided. Firstly, with regard to the direct prevention of land use, there is a clear and specific formula for tolerance fees, yes, up to 7.5% of the price of land taxation, that is a farm fee. This point of dispute, where judicial disputes may also arise, is the infrastructure elements inside the buildings, i.e. substations, etc. There, these infrastructure companies really asked the government to make sure that you could not foresee any specific formulas, matrices, formulas or limits. The government found, and I think, to a large extent rightly, that it is very difficult to provide such matrices because every house, every place, every dense settlement or diffuse settlement is so different that you cannot come up with the same solution, just inside the building. It also depends on how much it prevents you from living, i.e. whether there is one part of the building that can't be used for any other purpose at all as a substation, or whether it's really going to be a transformer in your bedroom. It was a joke, of course. In addition, the question of how much must the owner contribute to maintaining the building's condition, whether he needs to snow off the roof or what else he needs to do in this regard. The situation is unconvinced in that it is so full of individual differences. Basically, you could say that two completely identical objects are likely to be difficult to find. We really have to hope that an agreement will be reached between us. Or the court will resolve it so that everyone is happy, of course, it is hard for me to believe.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U13	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! Let me get this straight. This injustice, which concerns the current situation, will now be resolved? It seems rather strange that the obligation that the owner has to the state and what the state is trying to impose with certain burdens is not balanced. The owner shouldn't lose there. I understand there is a solution to this in the new law. On the other hand, is it not inevitable, in a sense, that even if such an over-Estonian coefficient or a general principle were to be created, the differences would still remain? Some things need to be argued in court to bring certain types of precedents. Did the debate also discuss the extent to which possible restrictions are taken into account in the sense of certain prospective business making or profiting? If, for example, I have a narrower business opportunity or I cannot do a certain type of business, is it being taken into account, or is this the subject of discussion at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U15	Thank you. Good question! It was really discussed, perhaps not exactly, in the wording you said, but basically, yes. It can be compared whether there is direct damage or loss of income. Indeed, there was a debate on the amount of income that had not been received. That's what's vague, and it can blow up a lot of calculations, just like everybody's afraid. In this case, if you take the loss of income on the basis of a model, which in itself is difficult to recover again, it can be very, very expensive. But basically, the problem or the problem is that the owners would like to see more than that they are also compensated for any loss of income. In the Commission, this was discussed only in passing. I know in some countries where this road has gone down that infrastructure companies or that the country has acquired land that is so loaded. In this case, the law also states that the State does not, for example, have the right to levy a farm premium on the land it owns. But then the discussion would go a little easier on the tracks. Unfortunately, neither Estonia nor companies are at the level of wealth so that we can resolve such disputes simply by not having money on the table and no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U16	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U17	Thank you. Good waitress! I understand that, in the context of the households that have already joined, this is the option of 'a plague or cholera', as you yourself expressed in colour. Did you also address this issue in the Commission that, if there are households wishing to join the electricity grid, does the current pricing model in the context of connection fees include all kinds of servitudes, their setting? Is there not a situation here in which merging households or businesses pay and receive both the plague and cholera in the context of current laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U18	Thank you for your question. This was not directly discussed in the Commission, already because, in fact, the draft here does not regulate accession in any way. In case your merger prevents you from using your own land, you will not be paid any farm fee, as I have mentioned. However, there is a good question about the overall arrival of the normal electricity bill, as well as the connection fee, of how much the whole picture is affected by the fact that the farm fees are included in the calculation. In that sense, your question is justified. However, this was not discussed in the Commission, and I really have no idea how this calculation is going to take place today with regard to subscription fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U19	Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The second question came up with your answer, and it came up with the idea that, in certain cases, it would not make sense that the state should also experience, from the perspective of the 'owner', the greater or unpredictable cost that you have called for the country. I mean, if the state actually had to pay and had to pay clearly higher charges, it would start looking at more sensible solutions at some point. If the fee is not high enough or too low, it may actually mean that work and activities are planned in a way that does not require much effort. That's the question. In my opinion, the remuneration should also be sufficiently motivating for network companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U21	That is, of course, a very good question. To be honest, we did not discuss it that way in the Commission. This is a bit of a point in life and competition, but also in the way these same companies operate. I know from experience. I live in Viimsi, and when I moved there, we basically had a weekly blackout every week, and I don't exaggerate a serious blackout. Sometimes a tree fell on the power line. I went sawing one down myself, sawing my knee, ended up in the hospital. But I did something useful, and it wasn't the last time I did anything. It's been about 20 years now, and now it's come to such a point that we have an electricity company called Imatra before it was Fortum, and I don't remember the last time we had a blackout. Indeed, they have invested enormously, they have taken high-voltage lines underground, they have made it more convenient for both users and landowners, but above all more consumer-proof. So he's got to move towards it. Of course, such self-preservation should also lead to entrepreneurship in this direction. But yes, your question is justified. If the state is able to put itself in a more owner's position, there would be more of that understanding. I am not sure that the Ministry of Justice was able to instill a great deal of ownership in the course of this debate. At the same time, I say I understand their limitations. None of us want to take a decision that will increase the electricity price by 10, 20, 15% or, however much, if we make farm charges very high compared to today. We do not want to do this, either to the Estonian people or to the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U22	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U23	Thank you. I have an example and a question about life itself. A few years ago, when I was still mayor, I ran into this thing that here in Harjumaa, and I believe that there were such fierce businessmen in other parts of Estonia who bought private roads and other such land hedgehogs and then tried to extort huge amounts of money from residents or companies for tea use. At the same time, we encountered the fact that they also demanded completely insane compensation for technic routes, i.e. water pipes for power lines, etc., from their own path. In order to prevent such a situation, does this draft relate in any way to this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U24	Thank you. In principle, once again, one question that we did not discuss directly in the Commission. Except in one of the first Commission meetings, I asked the same question myself as regards the use of roads. In Estonia, there is actually another area that is unregulated, namely that the owner's access to his property may also be hindered by the fact that the owner of the other property does not allow his property through. It does not allow the use of roads that could actually be publicly available, for example, it could be owned by a local government and could be automatically set up as a servitude. Unfortunately, Estonians often have the custom that when property is acquired, there is also a strange kink: I have to defend or exploit this property at all costs and ask as much as possible for it, in case someone dares to put his foot on it or pass the pipe under it. However, this draft itself, yes, does not deal with this option. After all, those moments where such unreasonable charges have been demanded have usually ended in court and still have not been paid. I know a few areas where some people are being tried for these things. But in principle it should then be set, the same 7.5% of the price of taxation of the land should be the ceiling, and then, depending on whether it prevents the use of this road at all, it could also be smaller. I fully understand the nature of the problem, but it was not directly discussed in the Commission. It was undoubtedly the subject of regulating this draft, but not to a large extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U25	Peter Ernits, you're up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U26	Good manager! Good waitress! I understand that the church in the area of the current constitution is the landowners in the middle of the village, and the fees for technical networks are more or less in the parlanze. What was your feeling in the committee, whether the church will continue to be in this place, or whether the pressure on landowners and utility owners will be greater? Which side is it bigger?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U27	Good question again. Actually, I think you're a little inaccurate when you say it's in the parking lot. Not yet. Next week maybe when we adopt this draft, and the law will be in force on 1 January 2019. Then maybe this church will be in the middle of the village. At the moment, it is clear that landowners are the losing side and receive too little reward for creating obstacles to the use of their land. It's a constitutional barricade. What happens next? I can't predict. On which side is the pressure higher? In fact, letters, views and dissatisfaction have come from both sides, in my opinion quite equally. But the small hope is that this is the kind of change that we cannot predict the exact consequences of and know what this means in practice, precisely in the sense that we do not know whether it will lead to a huge number of litigation, which in turn may reveal the truth. This may in the long term lead to some Supreme Court ruling that brings us back to this hall, for example, or some new government that finds that the church is not quite in the middle of the village, but is on the edge of one village. Maybe there's gonna be a change. It's not like we're gonna stone the laws here, so they're gonna stay forever. Clearly, time may change. I can't predict which way it might be in this case or which way this church is now very close to the edge of the village.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U28	Good waitress, colleagues don't have any more questions for you. Now we can open negotiations; members of the Riigikogu can say their opinion on this draft. Külliki Hatter has registered as the first caller. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U29	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! The Free Party Group is critical of this draft. We have not, let us be honest, formulated a final position. What are the arguments why we are currently having a dubious view? Our aim and desire really is to protect and represent the interests of landowners. At the same time, we sense that if the price that could be more favourable to the landowner creates huge opposition among the infrastructure companies, it will come back to us in the form of the price of the network fee service. Thus, the landlord has not won; rather, he has been punished differently. However, I do not think that it makes sense to create such a situation. On the other hand, the rapporteur's statement made it very clear that this draft has no substantive impact. Different parties can go to court. The question is whether it is reasonable for the Riigikogu to adopt laws that provide for active access to justice. However, it is cumbersome in time and in financial terms, both to the landowner and to the complainant himself. On the basis of the discussions, I feel that the most dissatisfied are currently infrastructure companies, which have a real obligation or a burden to pay out the farm fee. In my opinion, landowners are more modest, at least as long as the network fee remains the same. I have a very sympathetic view of the private forest federation. They would be interested to see that the basis for assessing the network service fee would be the calculation of the loss of revenue, which they estimate would be at least 60%. They pointed out, for example, that if there is land under power lines where forest is to grow, the annual income of the growing forest should be estimated at EUR 135. Of this, at least 60% could be the fair remuneration they miss because they have an electric line on the ground. This argument was, unfortunately, not discussed in substance in the Commission. I am very pleased that there were quite a number of questions in this Chamber today, which would probably mean a joint session or debate between the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on the Environment, for example. We should have a wider circle than just one of the Commission's debates on this issue. I myself felt that neither the Ministry of Economic Affairs nor the Ministry of Finance were the fighting parties in this draft, which would guarantee that even state-owned infrastructure companies would keep the price stable. There are a lot of questions. One of them is the same as the one that I put forward, whether the constitutional barrage has been resolved in the context of this draft and to what extent it has been resolved. Of course, there will always be dissatisfaction and questions. Everyone has the right to take care of their own interests. However, as a legislator, we should also be aware of the risks when taking decisions. I therefore call on all the political groups to hold debates before the third reading and to think about whether we are on the right track. We haven't figured that out yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-11_U30	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Now we are going to the examination of the amendments. The Committee on Legal Affairs has tabled one amendment, namely on the entry into force of the draft law, and of course the Committee on Legal Affairs has taken full account of it. We have no further amendments. Second reading of the bill closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined today's agenda. I wish you strength and strength in the committees, and have a good day. I'll see you Monday. Closure of the sitting at 10.36 a.m.
