ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. 8th working week of the VIIIth session, Monday session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U2	Good Chairman! Good ambassadors! I will present an inquiry to the Minister of State Administration, Janek Mägg. The subject is the results of the administrative reform. In fact, last week, small summaries were sought both in the newspaper of the country, where no party considered this to be an important job for this season, and in Tartu. We do have a number of objectives under the Administrative Reform Act, but we believe that we are currently failing to meet these objectives. They are then better availability and quality of services or cost savings. What is even more worrying is that more than a year ago, more specifically on 13 September 2017, the Ministry of Finance sent proposals to the government to increase the financial autonomy of the local government, but they have not yet been discussed. We want to know why this debate has not been conducted. Does the government really not want to increase the capacity of local authorities? Has the administrative reform led to a more coherent development of the regions? And finally, that's the question. Administrative reform has been carried out. If financial autonomy is not to be increased, why do we need this ministerial position at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U3	On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U4	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates two draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions and other laws. And thirdly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu to replace 'the capital subscribed by the United Kingdom in the European Investment Bank'. When dealing with these two drafts in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U5	I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. We will continue to act under the Labour and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 76 members of the Riigikogu are present. Agenda. On behalf of the Bureau, I would like to thank the Committee on Monetary Affairs for proposing that the third item on the agenda of this week's Thursday session, which is the second reading of the draft law on supplementing the Income Tax Act (648 SE), be placed on the Wednesday agenda and be the 18th item on that agenda. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U6	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, have a suggestion: raising the second item on Thursday, the second reading of the draft law amending the law on weapons initiated by the Committee on National Defence, the second reading on Wednesday, so that we can concentrate fully on the debate on a crucial national issue on Thursday. The proposal is to make this the last item on the agenda for the Wednesday sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U7	I see. The first proposal was from the Commission. There are other readings here, and it is therefore important that it reaches the Members of this House in time. The Committee on Finance, I understand if he asks for an exception, he'll be ready with the documents. My question is to the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs: his opinion on this proposal? Please, Jaanus Karilaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U8	Agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U9	Then Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U10	But what if we don't agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U11	Then no change. As there was no proposal, with these amendments... Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U12	I'm sorry, I'm just saying, we don't agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U13	Got it! Then I will put the agenda to the vote, as it has been put before you. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, 8 against and 7 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Now, I understand there are procedural questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U14	Thank you. I didn't understand, and I don't think anyone in the hall understood whether this 'no agreement' applies to the law on weapons or both of the drafts we were talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U15	I thought it was about both drafts. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U16	Thank you. As Martin Helme did not mention the number or name of this draft, which he did not accept, it was not possible to understand what he did not agree with. He simply said that he would specify: disagree. But either one or the other or both, he didn't say that. You can check that in the verbatim. And neither did I.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U17	Let's make sure the manager was wrong. In my opinion, I asked quite precisely whether both amendments should be taken into account, as did the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as was the one made by the honourable Helir-Valdor Seeder. Martin Helme, what didn't you agree to? Maybe the manager was wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U18	We do not want both of these items to be moved around.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U19	Any more procedural questions? The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U20	Our first item is an inquiry by Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Sild and Peeter Ernits. [[It's ringing the bell, there's noise in the hall.]] Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U21	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I understand you have a lot of ideas to discuss after the weekend. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] However, Monday is primarily intended for work in the Riigikogu. We have an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, regarding information about the press and not just about the press about the fact that there is a very massive post-citizen editing in Estonia, let's say in Estonian, snooping. Since the numbers are remarkable, namely, 4596 speeches have been eavesdropped from Telia's Estonian network, which is ten times more than in Sweden or Denmark during the same period, this raises questions about whether Estonia is paranoid about terrorist threats or about the desire to prevent other crimes, or whether there are other reasons behind the citizens, including political reasons. If, for example, 1776 surveillance permits were issued in 2007, last year was 3154. Eavesdropping permits were issued last year in Sweden, where nearly 10 million inhabitants live, out of 890, while we have 1253 at the same time. As we know, there are only 1.3 million residents in Estonia. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister, of which the latter certainly deserves to be highlighted separately, and this is: 'Does the members of the Riigikogu, the persons associated with them and the political groups of the Riigikogu have been eavesdropped from 2015 until today? If so, for what reasons? ' Thank you! We give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U22	Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U23	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honorable House of Highness! Good questioners! The Republic of Estonia is the rule of law. In the case of serious violations of fundamental rights such as surveillance activities, the rule of law in the Republic of Estonia is subject to clear procedures and judicial review procedures, as well as a number of different supervisory systems. I can unequivocally assure the Riigikogu that no one is politically persecuted or pursued in the Republic of Estonia through law enforcement agencies. By asking questions about specific problems, the inquisitors refer to the Ministry of Justice's data that 4500 phone calls were intercepted on Telia's network in 2017 and ten times less in Sweden and Denmark. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Justice has never published a number on Telia's online eavesdropping. This number is taken from a report published by Telia, which indeed includes the data of Telia's subsidiaries in other countries. However, I would stress that Telia itself, in this report, from which the heirs took their statistics, has indicated that the published data are not comparable from one country to another. The share of this communications company's market in specific countries, other countries' crime... [[Noise in the hall.]] I'm starting over. So please turn the speedometer to zero! I'll start over. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U24	Yeah, it is. If the Justice Minister's speech is not to be heard by the MPs, it is just a terrible situation. Let's start from the beginning! 15 minutes for the minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U25	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honorable House of Highness! Honourable questioners! I would first of all like to say unequivocally that the Republic of Estonia is the rule of law when I answer this question. The Republic of Estonia is subject to very clear procedures, including procedures for the exercise of external supervision, in the area of interference with such an important fundamental right, such as surveillance activities. And I can assure you that in the rule of law, the means that have been given to state law enforcement authorities to establish the truth are not used in any way for political surveillance. As far as questioning is concerned, the authors of the inquiry have claimed that according to the Ministry of Justice, 4500 speeches were intercepted last year on Telia's Estonian network. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Justice has never published such a number. This number is taken from the report published by Telia, which indeed presents the relevant data from other countries as a reference. What is important is that Telia has also stressed in her report that the published data are not comparable to those of other countries. We do not know, for example, the share of the market of a particular communications company in one country or another, the structure of crime in other countries, the rules laid down in other national laws for tracking operations, the statistical methodology, etc. It should be noted that this report by Telia emphasises that the data on Estonia is probably more complete and the overview is better than in other countries, as Estonia has an automated system, i.e. an electronic direct connection. The report uses the term direct access. This means that there are electronic connections between the police and the communications company to intercept the phones, through which specific numbers can be intercepted if there is a court order. This system will also allow greater transparency: every step will be left behind and all police operations will be logged at the liaison office. These activities are supervised by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Estonia, the Special Committee on the Supervision of the Security Authorities of the Riigikogu, as well as the Chancellor of Justice. As far as official statistics are concerned, as provided for by the law, the Ministry of Justice publishes an annual review of last year's surveillance activities and this is completely public. According to this statistics, in 2017 the court issued 917 permissions to eavesdrop on the phone. By comparison, when we look at five-year dynamics, in 2013 it was number 1047. In the middle, with minor differences, these numbers have been of the same order of magnitude over the last five years. The second question concerns the increase in the number of surveillance activities and its relation to the percentage of crime resolution. The question is why it is precisely this type of surveillance activity that has been taken up unbridledly, although the law also provides an opportunity to use other surveillance activities that are less damaging to people's fundamental rights. I would like to stress that surveillance activities, as acts that seriously undermine the rights of a person, will only be used if other investigations do not produce results. The ultima ratio principle is followed, which is clearly included in the Code of Procedure. Eavesdropping permits are issued only by the court in the Republic of Estonia. When applying for a permit, the prosecutor's office must demonstrate convincingly to the court that there are grounds for suspecting a criminal offence and that it is not possible otherwise to prove that he is guilty. In 2017, about 10% of the requests for eavesdropping were rejected in part or in full by the Court. This confirms that the supervisory powers of the court and the power of final decision are not merely formal. In the last three years, the number of cases where surveillance has been carried out has decreased somewhat. If we put aside data on the number of surveillance permits, the number of surveillance permits has indeed increased somewhat, but this is more proof that the things that are being traced are larger, larger and more complicated. While mass crime, especially the use of property crimes, has been reduced in the big picture of crime, hidden crime, such as drug crime, has not diminished in any way. Despite the decrease in the number of registered crimes, the number of cases sent to court remains more or less the same. Thus, the effectiveness of the legal system, the resultivity, has substantially increased. The percentage of solving crimes is much better. The proportion of crimes solved has never been as high as last year: 69%. By comparison, this figure was 53% in 2012. The Court issued the highest number of intelligence permits in relation to drug, organised and economic crimes, particularly tax crimes. I would like to stress that surveillance can hardly be used for all crimes. The Code of Procedure specifies the crimes for which it is permitted. When establishing this catalogue, Parliament took into account, among other things, the following factors: whether it is a cover-up crime, whether it is a priority crime, whether it is worth emphasising that belonging to a catalogue does not automatically confer the right to pursue surveillance activities. The law states the ultima ratio principle, as I emphasised. Crimes included in the catalogue of types of crime allowing surveillance activities were registered in 2017 in 18688, representing 69% of all registered crimes. By comparison, in 2015, this number was 21923, representing 67% of all registered crimes. Assuming that one criminal case was initiated for each of the crimes, the authorisation to use surveillance activities was estimated for each of the 49th cases. That's 2% in criminal matters. In my opinion, it is certainly not too much. According to the Tracing Operations Information System, 1137 persons were authorised for the surveillance operation in 2017. By comparison, the total number of suspects was around 20,000. I would point out that surveillance is aimed at detecting serious cover-up crime. It is also important to stress that surveillance activities are subject to strong and multi-level control in Estonia. You can only listen to people, as I indicated, with the court's permission. The next question: 'Have there been eavesdropping of members of the Riigikogu, the persons involved and the political groups of the Riigikogu since 2015 until today? If so, for what reasons? ' I can assure you that the law allows the application of surveillance permits only to a particular person, which means that the faction of the Riigikogu does not belong to the category against which surveillance activities can be carried out. The Ministry of Justice has an obligation under law to have an overview or to compile statistics on absolute figures on how many tracking permits, procedures and files have been subject to large-scale proceedings in a given year. The Ministry of Justice does not maintain such statistics on a personal basis. This statistics concerning the people who have been or have not been committed to the act are certainly not within the competence of the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice does not produce such an overview of specific people. The Ministry of Justice, I stress, does not interfere with the work of the investigating authorities, the prosecutor's office, including surveillance activities. The question has been asked whether the members of the Riigikogu, the persons associated with them and the political groups of the Riigikogu have been eavesdropped from 2015 until today. With regard to the political groups, I replied that this type of authorisation would not allow this kind of tracking permits to be issued. As far as the members of the Riigikogu are concerned, you will understand that I cannot answer the question of who has been eavesdropped. Specific questions may be referred, as provided for in the parliamentary oversight procedure, to the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities and to the State Attorney General. I mean, if a circle of persons can be defined more precisely. Have members of the Riigikogu been eavesdropped from 2015 until today? I would like to emphasise once again that I am interpreting my competence to supervise the prosecutor's office in such a way that I do not collect or own such data on individual persons. In my opinion, the Ministry of Justice does not have the authority to have information in my vest pocket about whether anyone is being eavesdropped. I do not think that this is the responsibility of the Minister with political responsibility. However, the Ministry of Justice asked about this, indicating that we do not want to know any names from the prosecutor's office. We asked a general question as to whether permission to apply surveillance procedures to persons belonging to this group, i.e. members of the Riigikogu, has been requested by means of a special procedure provided for in the law. This is done on the basis of a written reasoned request from the State Attorney General with the consent of the Chairman of the Tallinn Circuit Court. And the short answer to the prosecutor's office was no: not requested. And as I was referring to, 'the persons involved' is a very vague category, it is difficult to define. However, if the heirs have an interest, the Special Committee on Security Authority Supervision will be able to clarify this. There is also an interest in whether the principle that there are certain restrictions applies in Estonia, but generally the person is informed when he or she has been subject to a surveillance procedure. And there is also a question of the situation when a person who is not subject to an eavesdropping permit has had to make a phone call with the person who has been subject to the surveillance procedure. Someone's calling him, and then is he going to be in that surveillance business? No such separate statistics were identified by the prosecutor's office. If these questions are to be asked more precisely on the basis of specific cases, then this can certainly be done through the Special Committee on Security Authority Supervision. However, as regards information to persons, 2198 persons were informed in 2017 that they had been subject to surveillance activities. This is certainly an important mechanism for ensuring the rule of law. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice has extensive powers to supervise the discreet collection of personal data and the processing and use of such information. If anyone feels that their specific fundamental rights or the fundamental rights of another person have been violated, it is also possible to address the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U26	Questions for the Minister. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U27	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You answered that last question in such a spiny way, and when-and-but-and-but-thought that there is no way to be convinced that, for example, the accountant of our party or the head of the office, I do not know, you will not be eavesdropping with any request from the tax administration. And maybe you could eavesdrop on everyone else who communicates with him. It's a common trick. But I'd like to be more specific. We know that one thing is a covert pursuit, which does not really need the court's permission, it can be done by the prosecutor's office on its own, and then there is eavesdropping and monitoring e-mails and other correspondence for which permission is required. These are different categories. Are you ready to explain these numbers and differences to us? Do you have any statistics on that? And can I get a more precise number on how many courts reject eavesdropping requests?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U28	Thank you. I can say that, as far as this second issue is concerned, in 2017, the Court dismissed, in whole or in part, about 10% of requests for eavesdropping. That is the information I have at my disposal. If you want a specific number, I am willing to ask the Ministry to prepare a detailed review of this. In fact, when the Ministry of Justice compiled this general report on surveillance statistics, it recorded certain figures as a percentage. As regards the authorisations issued for surveillance activities and their dynamics in the last year, the figures are as follows: Use of a police agent: from 22 cases in 2013 to 27 cases in 2017. Second, imitation of the crime: there were 102 cases in 2013 and 107 cases in 2017. Telephone eavesdropping: as I said, 1047 cases in 2013 and 917 in 2017. Other eavesdropping or viewing: 286 cases in 2013 and 627 cases in 2017. It has probably also been linked to technological developments. The screening and substitution of mail has increased from 8 cases in 2013 to 16 cases in 2017. And now, hidden surveillance, hidden collection of reference materials, initial research, covert screening and substitution has increased from 1363 cases in 2013 to 1460 by 2017. If you take all the tracking permits issued for such operations and add up the whole table, we were granted a tracking permit in 3154 in 2017. This figure was 2828 in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U29	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U30	Good manager! Good minister! Recently, we were talking about the influence that Marran, Head of Foreign Intelligence, was talking about. After your party partner, the Minister of Defence said that these influence agents have not reached the Riigikogu, but they are everywhere else. Here's my question. Let's say that we MEPs are not being eavesdropped. But at the same time, there is a concept such as the provision of information. Can you confirm that no one in the Riigikogu has been eavesdropped in the form of information procurement to detect a possible influence agent?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U31	The answer to me was the report on surveillance statistics. This pursuit is based on the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is exactly what the Ministry of Justice has. We are talking about procedural procedures, whether it be members of the Riigikogu or other people. This will take place in criminal proceedings. I am not in charge of matters relating to the provision of the information referred to. Therefore, I am not competent to answer these questions. If I were to start responding unsightly, it could create the risk that I would mislead you, a good questioner, which I do not want to do under any circumstances. Now, more closely than the agents. In itself, the word 'influence agent' may be too dramatic. We know the word 'agent' more like a spy novel: an agent in a coat walks around with a revolver and performs some kind of spy cult. In the same laws of the United States, the word 'agent' is also understood in a more neutral sense: it is a person who is under the influence of a certain authority or authority and who carries out his orders, carries out his will. Figuratively speaking, this is a broader sense of civil law. In itself, we would make a mistake in the case of these agents if we were to focus solely on the punitive meaning or qualifications of the word. Individuals can undoubtedly carry out such tasks in a much more diverse way. If you look at an impact agent register held in Congress of the United States of America, we can see that there are very different operators, lobbyists, who are acting on behalf of third countries or some institutions operating outside the United States. This register is certainly in the interest of transparency; it is in the interest of clarity. So the question and concept of influence agents should not be reduced to approaching it from a purely punitive point of view. This activity does not necessarily require any counter-intelligence measures by the State. But as far as this procurement of information is concerned, the Ministry of Justice is not in possession of this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U32	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The definition of the influence agent you have given suggests that the entire Estonian government is an influential agent of the European Commission and violates our constitutional order and undermines our national statehood. So this is a thought-provoking definition. But my question concerns another area, perhaps you are not well prepared for it either. The question is that you've explained the wire taps, and we understand how this procedure works, but what about hacking? Today, communication takes place to a very large extent by computer and smartphone. How are the procedures for monitoring the use of these devices in place? Are they analogous or overlapping?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U34	Thank you. As far as members of the Riigikogu are concerned, this special arrangement is provided for in § 3822 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is exactly the same, it provides for this special regime. One thing is the operations that are carried out during the search. For example, a take, take, I don't know, a server, or take away any papers or a phone, or I don't know what things can be taken away, then there's a separate search procedure. As far as eavesdropping is concerned, there is an exact order for this surveillance operation. There are no impressions in this regard. It is also recorded, there are statistics to this effect. As I said, other eavesdropping or witnessing, in 2013 in 286 cases and in 2017 in 627 cases. And as I delicately referred to, it is probably linked to technological progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U35	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Listening to your report and a little while thinking about these Swedish and Estonian numbers, it turned out that we have 20,000 suspects. In view of surveillance and eavesdropping, please reject the claim that the figures suggest that the situation in Estonia is much worse! What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U37	Thank you. There has also been the question of whether there are influence agents from the European Commission within the government. That definition I said was a neutral definition. I used a legislative act in this area in the United States. In the 30s, the United States adopted a specific legislation to prevent third Reich's influence on American soil. There were these concepts inside. The government of the Republic of Estonia, as a Member State of the European Union, certainly does not qualify for it. I can calm you down. As regards whether we have statistically serious crimes per capita, more per person than is done in the Nordic countries, yes, unfortunately that is the case. And when we look at the number of people who are suspected, yes, people have been suspected of some kind of act in the course of judicial proceedings, but that does not in itself mean that they can reach the status of the accused and also of the sentenced person. But what was my reasoning? It was that, when you look at the number of suspects and the number of actual surveillance activities, the proportion of suspects is, as I said, 2%. This certainly does not give rise to the conclusion that surveillance activities in our country are being carried out arbitrarily or with a light hand. As far as specific cases are concerned, the question of Danske's money laundering case has probably rightly been raised. In the case of money laundering crimes, even in the case of a specific offence which has been discussed here as a matter of national importance, there is no right of eavesdropping. This offence is not in the catalogue of these crimes, and I think it is well-founded to consider whether to provide law enforcement authorities with this tool to investigate such complex hide-and-seek crimes. So when I look at these numbers, I say that it is very important that we have the necessary tools for the public and society to ensure that the right to surveillance is not easily exercised and that people's right to privacy is not simply violated. In this sense, I do not agree with one or the other assumption of this inquiry. But we certainly need to talk about these issues in the country. The additional mechanisms that have been put in place, such as the capacity of the Chancellor of Justice to monitor this, have, in my opinion, proved themselves to be a safety concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U38	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U39	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Maybe you've mentioned it briefly, but I'll ask you just in case. Nearly 90% of the eavesdropping requests are granted by the court. But do you also have ex post statistics or an overview of how many of these 90% cases this has proved justified? Has this led to real solutions, and have these people proved guilty of what they were suspected of when they were granted permission to be eavesdropped? Has there been a follow-up analysis of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U40	Thank you. This is a very serious, compelling question of how to measure the resultability of different procedural procedures. However, of course, if a surveillance procedure is used to prevent a hidden crime or to detect the truth, we must certainly not treat it as if the act is already being used, if the person is suspected, then the resultability of the legal system is shown by the fact that the procedure is due to a conviction. This would certainly be a distortion of the rule of law. It can provide two-way codes of conduct. The first is that judicial authorities would not be at all willing to identify the truth by procedural means. And the other way would be for the system to be tempted to go to the end at any cost, to make accusations. There are certainly a number of cases in which the criminal case is brought to an end and the person against whom a surveillance operation has been initiated is not held liable because circumstances have emerged that exclude it. Now, the question, if I understood correctly, was that if, for example, a thousand permits have been issued, or a thousand persons have been subjected to surveillance, whether these thousand people have also been convicted in court. The Ministry of Justice does not have such a resultant assessment. However, I think that is a legitimate question. You can ask the prosecutor's office for this in parliamentary supervision, perhaps as a sample. One could take some specific section of the Penal Code and analyse how results have been made of the activities carried out under it. This could certainly be one of the subjects of analysis. However, I stress once again that the assessment of the so-called return of the justice system must not be based on the view that all things must end with a conviction. This certainly must not be an objective; it would distort the rule of law. I would also like to stress that the prosecutor's office has a duty to comply with the ultima ratio principle, here is a double-checking filter. One is the prosecutor's office, which makes such a request when the investigating authority reaches such a conclusion, and the other is a court. Once again, I would like to point out that both independent decision-makers must have the understanding that there is a reason to consider the exercise of an act that violates fundamental rights in a particular case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U41	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I listened to your presentation and learned that in the surrounding countries, where the population is several times higher than in Estonia, the number of eavesdroppings is lower than in Estonia. Why do you think we have so much human wiretaps?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U43	Thank you. I referred to the fact that national statistics may not be well comparable, as Telia's data does not provide a valid quantitatively comparable basis for this. I have already referred to the assumptions made in Telia's analysis. As far as this general dynamic is concerned, I do not see an explosion over the last five years which would give rise to an excessive concern as to whether this right is being abused. Is it necessary to address this issue with such intensity? Whether any authority or authority granted to exercise public authority, there is always a theoretical risk of abuse. This, of course, must be balanced with a multi-pronged monitoring system, as we have built up. And I think that this system, in itself, where a person is able to intervene, both in complaint law and in the legal and public interest, is subject to this supervision, is quite a good filter.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U44	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. As your report now turns out, mostly only suspects of a criminal offence are being eavesdropped. But are there any other transgressions that are considered necessary to obtain an eavesdropping permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U46	Eavesdropping requires permission from the court. And it really has to be criminal. Now, another questioner also referred to other procedures relating to the procurement of information provided for in the Security Authorities Act. This is another option and there is no presumption that it is a person who is subject to this act in connection with a criminal case. One very wide area concerns the distribution of speech. There are two kinds of phone records. For one, it is not the content of the call that will be searched, but the log files that will prove that the calls have taken place. They'll show you what number the number's been dialed to. This can in principle also be identified in civil proceedings. There have been cases where such requests have been made in civil proceedings to establish some truth, and the court has considered them and possibly decided to grant them. As far as the retention of speeches is concerned, I recognise that, in the light of the judgments of the European Court of Justice, this area in Estonia definitely requires further legal regulation in accordance with the judgments of the Court of Justice. It is precisely this protection of fundamental rights that has been the subject of the Court of Justice's judgments. I also initiated the drafting of one of these laws last week. We could have a clear and open-ended legislation on the procedure in Estonia with regard to the allocation of speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U47	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U48	Thank you. We know that members of the Riigikogu must not be eavesdropped, and you said here earlier that you would not listen. However, do you have any statistics that, in the process of obtaining the same information, when somebody else has been eavesdropped, the members of the Riigikogu have also been eavesdropped? People are communicating.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U49	Thank you. That would be, say, an innocent victim or Collateral damage, as the Americans say. I've already described how this could happen. I asked the DA's office, and the DA's office gave her an answer. The reply of the Public Prosecutor's Office was that, in relation to the members of the Riigikogu, I emphasised it as of 2015, such surveillance permits have not been requested or granted. The statistics on whether a member of the Riigikogu has come into contact with some of the people being eavesdropped have not been kept by the prosecutor's office. I referred to the possibility that, if this is of interest to the inquisitor, it could be investigated under the supervision of the security authorities. It will then be possible to obtain general information on this. However, I would like to stress that the procedure is that if a person fell victim to this eavesdropping, when he spoke on the phone with the person who was eavesdropped, he will actually be informed about it. But are the members of the Riigikogu not allowed to be eavesdropped theoretically at all? Yes, I can, but there is a procedure for additional consent. This is to protect the immunity of members of the Riigikogu in the performance of the duties of a representative of the people. Executive power must not be able to influence them in any way. This includes, for example, expertise for placement in a medical institution. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu must personally authorise this.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U50	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U51	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr. Minister! Fellow groups and other colleagues! We didn't really get much smarter than answering this question, and neither did we have any confidence or conviction that mass surveillance in Estonia would not be carried out in one way, another way or third, and that this mass surveillance would not concern politicians or be designed to obtain political information and influence politics. We learned that there are procedures, that Estonia is the rule of law, that Estonia follows procedures and that everything is fine. We are not quite convinced of this, we are not convinced. I read somewhere that a delegation of Swiss IT specialists visited Estonia recently to get acquainted with our e-governance and IT experiences, and was shocked when mass surveillance takes place in Estonia using IT opportunities. If such a conclusion comes from people who are in Estonia for a short time and who are actually shown the parade first, then this information is alarmful. This means that we are using today's electronic world, among other things, to gather information, not only about criminals but also about other people. And politicians certainly are no exception here. I can also say that we have been experimenting, me and my son Martin, who, unfortunately, was forced to leave for a meeting now. In our speeches, we've let the ducks out and watched what's gonna happen. And look, it's not gonna take more than a day or two to deal with the things we've been sending out a signal that we're gonna do that. I can give you an example of today. At the end of last week, on the phone, we discussed at length and widely what to do with this unfortunate Marrakesh contract. And see, this day, everything has become awfully anti-immigration! Look at the wonder, everything is as one man in the lead with Jürgen Ligi, and today, just before coming to this hall with the middle party, he's worried about the Marrakesh Treaty! And even the president says that if there is no consensus, he still doesn't go there. I wonder where this information now suddenly exploded in all of Estonia's political circles? I wonder how such miracles are born.! But look, they're born. And that's just one example, the most topical example at the moment. But I will now come back to the Swiss by extending the subject. Every day when I come to work, I drive across Tõnismäe and on the left hand of the city, there is a house that has been built in the days of the Republic of Estonia. This addition is towards Endla Street and covered with stain on the outside. My experience, which is quite limited in the area of special services, says that this wing hosts the electronics used to carry out all this surveillance and extensive hacking. Why am I saying this? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U52	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U53	I am saying this because, you see, we have now seen the election campaign, and we can see it in this election campaign as well, I can take poison on how our diligent journalists find some sort of 20, 10, 15-year-old slips, some sort of thing, some cases, some kind of speeches about people who are running for applications on the lists of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Faithful journalists find, imagine, even materials that have not yet been digitized. I mean, they go to archives, they go to libraries, they hang out with newspaper folders for years, and then they find that aha, a totally unknown candidate for an EKRE has done a relatively insignificant thing 15 years ago. But because of that, I can tell you what kind of villains and villains they are. Look, guys, we weren't born yesterday. The Minister may try to convince us that we have the rule of law, but we see that this rule of law is being abused. We have deep doubts. And the answers given to today's inquiry will not dispel these doubts. It is as if we have a circular guarantee from the justice and security community, under the auspices of the promotion and defence of so-called liberal democracy. All those who say they are in favour of democracy like us are just in favour of democracy. It is not written in the Estonian Constitution that Estonia is a liberal democracy. It is written in the Estonian Constitution that Estonia is a democratic rule of law, not a liberal one. And we are out for this democratic rule of law. But we see that, just as Russia has a sovereign democracy, just as democracy has been run elsewhere, so we have a liberal democracy. And we have come to the conclusion, and that is why we have also put forward the question that all kinds of epithetes before democracy mean only one thing: limiting the definition of democracy, clouding the definition of democracy, and directing the definition of democracy to a certain narrow bed, essentially censorship, and excluding pluralism. And this is what we see in today's Republic of Estonia, and we are fighting against it, which is because the Liberal Democrats are accusing us of anything. It doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U54	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U55	Good manager! A few colleagues! We've had a very long and hard day at work today. I wasn't planning on coming here, but listening to the honourable Minister of Justice's story, I thought I'd still have to go to the remote. I've spent many days as a journalist in courthouses talking to a lot of lawyers. If there were any of them in this room right now, and he could come here and take my place, he'd talk a lot more about what I want to talk about. We're talking about it often. First of all, there is such a thing as fishing, i.e. the provision of information. That's the eavesdropping. And, of course, not listening to cattle farmers and pig farmers and school teachers, but listening to journalists fishing! just, ladies and gentlemen, politicians, members of Parliament and, perhaps, of the government. It's possible. And if, in the course of this so-called fishing or information procurement, some sentences are obtained, no matter how it is understood, then the judge is often asked for eavesdropping permission. And that is what the honourable Minister of Justice actually gave us an overview of. But let's get back to the "actors." Head of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate Mikk Marran announced in a scandalous statement that we have identified the influence of agents in the Kremlin's influence with a network of agents who have entered Parliament and the government. It also includes journalists and entrepreneurs. And remember what a riot came about! I even asked the Minister for Defence that, given that the people who have been on the verge of local politics so far have now reached Parliament, who are then the Kremlin agents who will receive orders from there as well. And then the Secretary of Defense said yes, we've identified them, but not here. I don't know if it's in Latvia or France or somewhere else. Time and again the same information procurement! And you could ask that maybe the French or Latvian or German Foreign Intelligence Offices have identified these agents here too. If you listen to someone secretly, friends, there really is no point in listening to pig farmers, kindergarten educators, or workers. It is precisely this group that must be heard: politicians, parliamentarians, entrepreneurs, journalists. And I think that's why the Justice Minister's answer is competent. Indeed, it is likely that there are probably no secret eavesdropping permits issued by a judge for Members. At the same time, the Minister of Justice pointed out that, of course, we are in contact with voters and people of all kinds. If any of them, for example, are eavesdropping on an entrepreneur or journalist, then we, who are on the other end of the line, will inevitably be eavesdropped. So I think we're actually being eavesdropped. I don't have any records, but as a result of long courtrooms and conversations, I think... Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U56	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U57	...the interrogation is ongoing and we are being eavesdropped. We have phones, including smartphones, and it doesn't matter what they call secret eavesdropping. And this problem is only for freaks, what do you call it? But who's responsible? Is it Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, or is it the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is under the authority of the Foreign Intelligence Office, who, as we know, has identified a network of influence agents in Parliament and the government? However, as we have recently heard from the party partner of the Minister of Justice, not here in Tallinn, but somewhere else in European countries and other countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U58	The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate any further, but the minister does. That's the right he's got. Please, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U59	Thanks, respectables! First of all, about the question to which the first speaker referred. It was a very calculated and rational statement. I suppose not an information operation to undermine the trust of bona fide people, the public, in the rule of law. Look, democracy is a consequence. The precondition for the realisation of democracy is the rule of law, the functioning of the rule of law. And the prerequisite for the rule of law is, in fact, that there is trust in society. And fracturing the rule of law, i.e. worrying about this trust, I am far from saying that the speaker wanted it or that it was intended to do so, in fact, also means knowingly breaking Estonian statehood. Now, the question is that the speaker had a problem. He spoke to his son about the Marrakesh Convention and it appears that this information has reached political competitors because of illegal surveillance. So I understood his speech. What I want to say is that the Penal Code is very clear, first of all, criminalising illegal surveillance by law enforcement authorities. The Penal Code specifically criminalises the breach of the confidentiality of messages, whether by letter or otherwise. There are also penalties for private pursuits. If this feeling exists and it was not borne out from a point of view, which I certainly do not wish to attribute to the speaker, then I expect the speaker to turn to the national law enforcement authorities. If the views expressed in your private talk between you and I understand that, in your opinion, it is not the first time that you have reached the public or competitors or third parties who have no goodwill towards you, this must be done. Surely our aim must not be to establish a paranoia society. When people feel such fear, it must be done by means of the rule of law. We should fight fear together, and that is the subject I propose to you. You could do that if you spoke to me earlier. As far as the question of whether the milker or the hunter or the farmers are wanted to be eavesdropped, that it is actually worth listening to the decision-makers, the same thought was expressed in the Committee on Legal Affairs by Igor Gräzin when we were talking about the draft law on blunting the powers of the prosecutor's office, which has been initiated in this Parliament. I remember Igor Gräzin said what kind of drug lords, what kind of guys we don't care about. We are interested in the fact that, in relation to us, to politicians, these procedures cannot be carried out. And that was a very clear reference to the objective to be attributed to this bill. I am pleased that the second representative of the people who spoke did not hide this line of reasoning. Believe me, build up the rule of law and bring back the rule of law, this is a very difficult task, and I am sorry if we are going to play it down with such a doctrine of fear or suspicion. Because trust is a prerequisite for all things worthwhile. We all bear the people's trust, either through mediation or directly, and I very much hope that when people have fears, these fears can be alleviated. That is why there are judicial authorities that protect people's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U60	Honourable Riigikogu! The procedure for answering questions is that the first person to speak in the negotiations is the representative of the interviewers and, after that, all members of the Riigikogu who so wish. I have no right to speak to the addressee of an inquiry before all members of the Riigikogu have spoken. And since the members of the Riigikogu no longer wished to participate in the negotiations, I gave the floor to the Minister of Justice. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-11-12_U61	Free mike. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4.10 a.m.
