ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U2	Good afternoon, President of the Republic, President Rüütel, Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Ministers, constitutional officials, Excellencys and guests! I will open the VIIIth session of the XIIIth Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U3	I give the floor to the President of the Riigikogu. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U4	Mr President Kersti Kaljulaid and President Rüütel. Dear Riigikogu, good Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and the Government of the Republic! Honourable constitutional institutions, high ambassadors, good people and our friends! We will start the last half of the XIII Riigikogu with the certainty that in March next year the XIV of the parliament will also be elected in the Estonian country that has become 100 years of age. Estonia is a free and democratic state with a well-functioning and balanced constitution, where despite everything, there are more smiling and singing people to their country than sullen and vicious people, where they are able to become free and develop their lives, but where there is no lost memory of how freedom can be lost. It is therefore important and perhaps more understandable to us that any attempt, even if only to disrupt the unity of the countries and peoples who share the same values with us, is not in our interest. The saying 'Estonia in particular' also means 'a united Europe in particular' to us and 'a Union for the protection of the democratic powers of NATO in particular'. At this point, I am not afraid to be blue-eyed, I believe that the majority of voters with our friends agree with the name of their own country, of course, to say it. And not only in Latvia and Lithuania, who are our destiny mates, but in all our allied countries. However, some voters have begun to question it and to doubt it strongly: in other places more, we have less because of Molotov and Ribbentrop. To say these doubtful people are just stupid would be stupid. The biggest challenge for democratic countries is to give back confidence to those for whom the new reality has proved too complex. A person who doesn't know what to do is easy to scare. And these fears are also sunk by populists and democratic values in their own country, and the characters trampling underfoot will gladly take advantage of it. I'd be glad if their goals were different, but I don't know. This is where I spoke about Estonia's interests. And if you're right or left or no side at all, freedom is our common interest. Let anyone who doesn't believe read the Constitution. The most serious reading of this summer was the editorial of one daily newspaper, which appeared after the meeting of the heads of two large countries in Helsinki. The title does not remember, but the content is briefly summed up as follows: luckyly missed us, they did not talk about us. I understand the author of the editorial, but it still scratches the soul that such a editorial had to appear, whether or not heated by false news. Cooperation in Europe based on shared values and peaceful living between several nations in Estonia is a success story felt as a threat by those who are accustomed to instigating countries and peoples against each other for their own benefit. Let's not give them that gift. It is perfectly understandable that the breakdown of the international order based on the rules has caused many anxiety. While fully respecting the democratic decisions made by other countries and nations, Estonia has no opportunity not to recall the sad history of Europe in the last century. We must not forget this either. By believing and fully trusting our foreign and security policy services, I wish them strength, strength and success. I am pleased that we have also been able to keep the majority of these policies united in the Riigikogu, and I am absolutely convinced that this will also be the case in the next Riigikogu, the composition of which will be decided by the voters in March next year. And in connection with these elections, I have another story for you. The model of parliamentary democracy, which has actually justified itself, requires politically active people to gather in political parties. But we do or we don't, the reputation of the parties is, unfortunately, lower than we want. We all have to shake the ashes on our heads here, and I understand if someone thinks the others should shake more for themselves, but the joke's a joke, right? At this point, I would like to congratulate the President, who, in his speech on 20 August, just encouraged people to come to politics. But how dare they do so if it is these very parties who are responsible for all the bad things? It is particularly sad when political parties are raised by former members of the Riigikogu. I know that during their mandate they also contributed to the development of the Estonian state. But when the MP's lecture on 'Actual problems in the Estonian Constitution' consisted exclusively of an explanation of how the ambassador used his expenses allowances, I am not surprised that the voters have not re-elected him here. He really knew how to use these benefits. But now to read about how the parties are responsible for all the troubles, it is not fair to the party to which the ambassador belonged. I apologize if someone seemed to have a stand-up comedy, but it is with such simple black and white nonsense that we are reducing the importance of the work that political parties are actually doing. By the way, we won't all be reelected here next March. Let's respect the work we've done. In the run-up to the elections, the messages given by the political parties are, of course, getting brighter, but also shorter. That has been the case, and that is the case elsewhere, so this is the reality that we need to take into account. However, I call on you to explain your principles and the foundations of democracy within the framework of our current constitution, also outside the electoral campaign. One can hope that all of us will be better understood. Perhaps it would become clear that, in fact, we all have a longer view of Estonia's future in addition to moving our daily scoops. Listening to the public debate on democracy, it is not difficult to conclude that, for example, the advantages and disadvantages of the proportional electoral system and the major electoral system that we use are not even clear to the many who make the proposals. If we want all world views with significant support to be represented in Parliament, today's arrangements must be continued. It is also possible to use simpler ways, but then we can reach a parliament where only two political parties are represented, who maybe two together do not represent half the voters. All of this should not be ashamed to explain, on the contrary, perhaps it would also be understandable why some Estonian people are members of political parties. But welcome to all of you! The composition of the political party is known to require a programme, statute and 500 members. That's the formal side. In addition, a view of the world would also be needed, or if the word seems unacceptable to anyone, at least the principles on the basis of which and why they came together. Otherwise, the voters won't understand you. I wish all newcomers vigor and creative joy. However, with the beginning of the school year, hopefully, everyone who went to school will have to think of an understandable idea: to successfully conduct tests and tests, you had to attend the class. If the work of the Riigikogu is organised in such a way that some attend classes and others do not, they either start writing down or fail the exam. Neither of these options will suit Parliament in any way. I will not tire of repeating that today's knowledgeable world has also challenged democracy by the name of 'openness'. And not just in Estonia. My favourite reading in this Chamber is an explanatory statement from the Commission during the second reading of the drafts. But not only on the basis of these explanatory notes, but on the basis of a general attitude, I dare thank the committees. The work of Riigikogu committees has become more open and inclusive in recent years. The result: you see, it is slowly beginning to realise that the laws are not passed by the government, and often a new and better solution is found here to replace what the government has proposed. It is true that today, too, the level of working with civil society is still somewhat uneven. For example, we have received justified resentment because it has taken too long for the committees to make public the work of the drafts which have attracted great interest. So there's definitely something to improve. There's a saying that it's evolving. Thus, over the years, the working form of the Riigikogu called 'State matter of importance' has evolved. At first, there was a serious suspicion that parliamentary groups would use this form to introduce and make popular their political agenda. The truth is, it was done, but without much success. Today, the initiatives of the political groups are also much more substantive on an important issue, and the initiatives of the committees are particularly good. As an example, I will mention what the Special Committee on State Reform has initiated. Once in our school education, there was a concept like'mandatory literature'. The plenary verbatim, which reflects the debate on state reform, should be compulsory literature for all those who make numerous proposals on this subject today. You can find support for your proposals and you can not find it, but you will be smarter in any case, which is one of the points of discussing a crucial national issue. More about the state reform. The opinion is certainly not applauseful, but vice versa. Good Estonian people! This composition of the Riigikogu here has not been employed by the President or by the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. This is your election in 2015. You will be elected in March 2019. Any proposals on state reform that undermine the competence of the Riigikogu actually reduce the rights of voters. Decisions must still be made in the country, and the choice is whether it will be made by people of your choice and authority or by someone else. The balance found in the Constitutional Assembly between the sizes of the Riigikogu, the President, the Government of the Republic, the Supreme Court, the Chancellor of Justice, the National Audit Office has worked excellently so far. We have not had a constitutional crisis. In the course of the reform, let us not even create the possibility of such a crisis. The Riigikogu can carry out its duties when it is elected by the people who do this work 24/7. Democratic state order is at least as much a benefit as pure drinking water that needs protection. Yes, overlooking it can bring benefits for the moment, but also years of errands. I wish everyone a hard-working pre-election autumn and good choices for voters in March 2019. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U5	Madam President, I would like to ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U6	Mr President Arnold Rüütel and the good President of the Riigikogu! Dear members of the Riigikogu, Excellencys, members of the government, representatives of constitutional institutions! On this 100th birthday of the country, we are no better told about the country than Rein Taagepera spoke to you here in the Riigikogu: 'This country is too thick because, compared to the population, it requires relatively more civil servants than a larger country. At the same time, this country is too thin because it still cannot cover all its special needs. If we didn't have to maintain a culture built on our own language, then no crazy person would start creating a country that small. But we have this culture. And this culture is so amazingly strong that it has made possible what is not possible: namely, a country that is at the same time too thick and too thin, but still works. ' Let's think together today about how we've done this miracle. The more I have wondered about this, the clearer it will be the one in which we are, indeed, more skilled than other countries. Let's look back at the time of the Constitutional Assembly and get closer and closer to it today. First of all, we find the tensions in the Constitution between the various institutions that make it difficult to manage the state, but no one can ever actually get what they want without spiced it with the others. We find an electoral system that brings to Parliament enough different views and ideas so that all social groups can feel represented in the Riigikogu. We find a monetary reform law that was quick, risky and original, but, balanced with strict budgetary requirements, gave us safe money until joining the euro area. We find a tax system that, in its simplicity, was understandable to a society that had previously not earned real income and did not pay real taxes. We find the X-road of the e-state and the public-private joint platform, the Estonian gene law and the gene estate, all the necessary standards for joining the European Union, bringing the defence costs of the consensus to 2%, when many considered this NATO principle to be meaningless formality. What does this list tell us? However, the wisdom, courage and willingness of our Riigikogu formations to do things differently from international practice has been suggested, not only in the wit of our people and companies, but to a very large extent. Estonia differs from other countries precisely in terms of smart and inventive legislation. We have constantly shaped a legal space for the inclusion of new ideas and technologies, providing an opportunity for economic development, for people to earn rising wages and for a part of the technological upheaval in the world, just as no other country has managed to do. Now we need to move on and build. It is reasonable to build on a surface that has carried us well. There is no need to be ashamed that we have a professional parliament whose optimal size of a cubic root of population has allowed us to represent the whole nation at the same time, different opinions, and, at the same time, to move forward only by keeping our secret well known to the Riigikogu: if it is possible to do better than those who, because of their wealth, have often considered themselves to be smarter than us, then courage has always been found and always done in this Chamber. Decisions such as these, the long-term effects of which may occur in years' time, are always difficult to explain. It is only in retrospect that the Riigikogu leaves a very clear pattern of its activities in the legal space that favours the rapid development and spread of new technologies through smart lawmaking. It is not possible to see this series of tracks gradually moving forward in history immediately before the result makes itself felt. Now it already does, because only 33 countries in the world today have average wages above the average in Estonia. Of course, you've also thrown a less successful rabbit hook into your pattern. And I'm sure the country is doing things today that have never been needed or no longer needed, but it's also difficult to stop. We'll probably find such activities on every ministry's property. But it seems to me that some of these rabbit nuggets have been thrown on the safe foundations of our country and between the bearing walls. The problems are more expressed in wallpaper patterns than in carrier structures. And although it is obvious that we will undoubtedly be able to get rid of the wallpaper pattern that worries us, I do not think such an approach is appropriate. They'll change the wallpaper if there's a pattern flaw. Let what is worn remain untouched. The state order is also a tradition, a tradition that has served us well, which respects all democratic principles, and should not be subjected to it for a very good reason. Dear Riigikogu! I would like you to continue to recognize what is the foundation of our legal space, which is a bearing wall, which is a successful superstructure and which is a faded wallpaper pattern. Dear Riigikogu! I would also like you to have the strength and understanding to discuss whether our safe foundation and bearing walls could already suffer the suffering of a superstructure like ours, economically successful countries, which we feel as a welfare state in the broadest sense, a caring country. Our GDP has followed Finland's GDP in 1994. And how we admired the opportunities there to create a caring environment for our people! The time has come to gather the fruits of your work and of the entire Estonian people for the benefit of all Estonian people. It would be ugly now that our opportunities are not actually very different from the European average of 75%, although there is still a quarter shortage, but the size of the European average is already the same, to start sharing our fruit from the tree, which we have grown, together and patiently, often in need, less in solidarity than before. Competition belongs to the economy and the economy could continue to be as free as possible in Estonia without harassing unnecessary restrictions. But the distribution of the benefits that keep society together and move forward must be uniform, solidarity-based. Education, health care, social support, protection from violence, assistance in the event of accidents, all of this must be available regardless of the address and salary number. Only then will our society and its members be able to cope with the inevitable ripple of envy if the neighbor is doing better. It gives us comfort that at least the children go to the same good school as my neighbor's husband and go to a great university, at least the heart surgery will do us the same good surgeon, at least the police and the fire department will come to me as quickly as my rich neighbor. Inequality and economic stratification are just as natural in a free society as a worm of envy in seeing a neighbor's big new car or a violent lawn mower. But in a welfare state that gives a person the inescapable need to maintain at least a hope for a better future, at least for children rather than always for themselves, envy is a driving force rather than a destructive force. If hope is lost, there will be resentment and bitterness towards your country. Then each country's decision begins to seem a personal insult, and politicians do not understand exactly why taxes are going to Latvia now or simply not paid, because the tax office cannot look inside the envelope. It is not necessarily a matter of practical personal damage, it is simply a matter of insulting your country, which in turn produces alienation. And alienation will cause anger and evil again, not caring or noticing. I wish you strength, dear Riigikogu, both to renew wallpaper patterns and to work on this higher superstructure! The election year is also the time, the same and the same time that has never been given us too much. The time has come to offer schoolchildren what makes them wisemen to continue your work in shaping smart legal space in this hall; to encourage entrepreneurs to seek physical assembly of their ideas in countries with a more cost-effective cost, while at the same time keeping really productive, intellectual property at home; to researchers what ambitious nations are striving for alongside us and to work with us in such a productive way that economic success will never again have to be harmed either the Estonian environment or the global climate. And finally. In the year of Estonia's first general poetry party, you can't but finish with a rhyme Ain Kaaleip to describe which Estonia we want and always wanted: 'Friend, if you build a house, make big windows for it so that the clear rays of the sun don't stop shining in them! " Let us do according to the words of the poet. Thank you for your attention and your strength to work. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U7	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U9	Honourable Riigikogu! Thank you to the mixed choir K.O.O.R. and their conductor Raul Talmar! Finally, the five created by Eino Tamberg and Juhan Liv's poetry sounded: 'Isamaale'. Thank you! [[Let's hear it.]] And now nothing more than the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Please, who has a wish? Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! We thought it would be appropriate to start the season with something that is full of a spirit of cooperation and has a greater impact than only the regulated area. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, we submit a draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic to transform Estonia's initial and school education into a single and Estonian language'. Of course, it requires a comprehensive plan, from money and the school network to methodologies and school leaders, but we think that we should not delay any more; society is rather late for this. In 2017, we felt public readiness and proposed it in Tallinn. We also quickly received support from the Human Development Report and Integration Studies. And I do not want to recall the words that we had to experience last year on our proposal, because, in the meantime, there has also been a great deal of political support, even though different parties are talking quite differently. In this area, we believe that there would be a willingness here in the Riigikogu, as well as the support of the majority, to make this decision. The mood changes are very obvious, and it is time to put experts to work. But we stress that this is not about learning the Estonian language; it is about learning the Estonian language. And this isn't about segregation, this is about losing segregation. This concerns the economy, social policy, health, and goes to security. So the subject is serious enough to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U11	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U12	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. The first draft law amending the Gender Equality Act and related amendments to other laws. Riigikogu represents Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, the Government of the Republic, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law on heritage conservation. The Minister of Culture Indrek Saar represents the Government of the Republic in processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act, the Waste Act and the Social Welfare Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. And fourthly, the bill to amend the copyright law. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Have a nice autumn session! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U13	Thank you. I have adopted five drafts and we will proceed with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 91 members of the Riigikogu considered it necessary to notify their presence. Agenda for the first working week of the VIIIth plenary session. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the first working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and no one was against or impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U14	Free mike. March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U15	Honourable colleagues, good start to the season. If you think I've forgotten to fight for Valga City and Valga Hospital maternity, you're wrong. I want to tell you about what happened this summer. During the summer, Valga Hospital's maternity department was locked and repairs were carried out behind locked doors: the delivery rooms became reception rooms and the first delivery room became a dialysis machine storage place. Valga Hospital is most likely to become one of the departments of the South-Estonian Hospital or Võru Hospital, and the main thing that will be there is dialysis. General surgery is basically broken down. The management board of the University of Tartu Hospital has been replaced. The main conductor of the destruction of Valga Hospital, the velsker Seer, has been promoted to economic management at the University of Tartu Hospital. In October, all the ends are in the water, and there's no such thing as Valga Hospital anymore, there's a department. Valga Hospital's maternity department no longer exists, there is a postage, a monument on the road, on the Valga-Tartu highway, where the first road birth took place. Who's responsible for this? Wednesday, the day after tomorrow, the Labour Dispute Committee is debating a regulation issued by the Valga Hospital, which says that people left the non-existent department illegally. On Wednesday, the University of Tartu Hospital will judge gynecologists with conscience, or women's doctors. Do we really not have any chance of regional policy when Latvia is ready to do so, when Latvia's Valka is ready to do so, when the Latvian Minister for Social Affairs is ready to do so? It doesn't mean that our Mrs. Sikkut couldn't agree with her properly. Latvia is ready, but we will destroy. We're going to destroy it. What is the formula for young Valka if Valga's Russian comprehensive school graduates do not get seats at state secondary school because the state secondary school does not want to deal with the immersion? Of the 12 graduates, I may now be wrong with the number. just three were admitted to the Estonian-language studies at the Valga state gymnasium. Where do these kids go? From the eighth grade, children are taken to Tartu to study. So it's called regional policy, it's called looking to the future, it's called supporting visionaries. Someone comes here saying that Estonia has no vision. No, Estonia does not lack vision, Estonia does not lack visionaries, and Estonia does not lack the people who carry out these visions. Estonia lacks the will to support these visionaries. Singapore... No matter how stupid your point is, he deserves to be discussed, he deserves to think, and he deserves to be tried. If half of the 10 things we've initiated are real, then we're in or in. We are a very rich country, we have very rich minds and young people with broad horizons. Why do we turn the taps off where we can't turn them off? Yes, the elderly are important, the well - being of the elderly is important. But in order to get older, I have to be born first, I have to study for 25 years, and I have to have a supportive family for 25 years, and I have to have a community, then I'm gonna be a world healer. Where have those thoughts gone? The General's looking at me. Why is there no order? Why not? Why are the laws just laws, they are not mandatory? The speed will be measured in a campaign, and soon it will pass. Young people are fighting in the park. What do you think this is, news? We used to fight, too, so the earth and the sky were black. This means that the preliminary work has not been done, we are dealing with the consequences. People! The Valga Hospital must remain and the Valga Hospital's maternity department must remain, because it is not possible to remove from the periphery the things necessary for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-09-10_U16	I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 15.41 p.m.
