ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the second working week of the VII plenary session. Dear colleague Ants Laaneots, may I address you? On behalf of the Riigikogu and on behalf of the Riigikogu, I would like to solemnly congratulate you in front of the line on your 70th birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U2	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear birthday boy! On behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I hand over a draft law on the anthem of the Republic of Estonia. For many of you, this may come as a surprise, but the anthem of the Republic of Estonia has not been regulated in Estonia in any legislation except the Penal Code, which states that the anthem must not be dishonored. What this anthem is or how it should be used for real, there is no rule of law about it. We have the law of war, and we have the law of flag. More or less two-thirds of the countries of the European Union have their own anthem law; we do not yet have it. In 100 years, I think it would be appropriate for the Republic of Estonia to make this simple law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U3	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U4	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I have the honour to hand over a draft law amending the law on the organisation of local government. To begin with, at the very end of last year, one of our very important questions was answered by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise. The problem is caused by the situation in several councils, perhaps the most drastic one in Narva, where some council members' right to belong to the council committee is violated. But in fact, the law is still being broken in several municipalities of Estonia, or at least this situation is extremely controversial. I mean that the proportion of political forces in the council as a result of the elections has not been taken into account in the assembly of council committees. In order to regulate this matter better, we have one legislative amendment, which is essentially made up of two points. Firstly, the composition of the council committee must take into account the proportion of political party and electoral union representatives in the council. This wording is somewhat stronger than the one that came into the law in its time. Secondly, the representatives of a political party or of a list of electoral associations shall be appointed to committees on the basis of requests from a political party or electoral association and shall be confirmed at the chairman's office. Perhaps, so far, the creation of a committee was only a matter for the chairman of the committee, then political forces are now given a role here in order to comply with the principle of proportionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws. The Management Board works with them, as usual, on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 90 delegates will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U6	Today's first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group will vote against this law because we cannot believe that we are dealing with an increase in excise duty. So what if we're dealing with this by slowing down the rise in excise duty, but it's obvious that excise policy has failed, that new data are still coming in. Overall excise duty receipts have decreased, budget forecasts have failed and drinking is likely to have increased as a result of trade across borders. This is a crime against the Estonian people, the Estonian budget and Estonian business. As far as trade is concerned, trade lives largely because of turnover, the key to trade is turnover. Trade cannot exist in rural areas if a group of goods is removed. I don't think you understand this non-economicist, but it's not like you're just divorcing some kind of profit. No, if you subtract the turnover of some important group of goods, the connection isn't linear, but the shops just fall into the minus. If an optimal rate of excise duty is exceeded, the goods will be bought at the border in the future. Estonia has set its own record here; Estonia currently has the largest share of border trade in alcohol without any doubt. There is no doubt here, I think the statisticians will confirm that in the coming months. Estonian statistics already confirm that the share of excise duty and alcohol in the budget of our families is the largest in comparison with other countries of the European Union, and it is natural for consumers to react by looking for cheaper goods. All this is happening in such a way that moderate alcohol policies and increased awareness among people have already caused alcohol consumption to fall. We should be very pleased about this, and we should not be holding it back by the stupid decisions on the rise in excise duty, which actually make people drink alcohol that is simply bought at the border. There is no need to link it to alcohol lobby, because alcohol producers are very pleased, they sell their goods across the border. It is no longer necessary to deal with Estonian stamps either, but it is enough for the warehouses where all the economic activity is built up at the speed of turnover and where the mark-up is explained to me, I do not have access to accounting, but I believe experts in 5%, whereas in the conventional retail trade, where conveniences and small bills are to be provided, the mark-up for soft drinks is 45%. So compare. You don't have to do anything, you just have to pocket the money. So I hope that the Riigikogu will proceed to this law by not raising excise duties on alcohol, but by lowering them, and that this obsolescence will be cancelled today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U8	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U9	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, For this bill, I would say too little and too late. I would like no one to be able to pretend that this is a reasonable correction of government policy in a situation where merchants have been heard, the situation, receipts and forecasts have been viewed, and then it has been decided that we are now going to make some small change that makes sense. No, it's not. This is a bill that continues to raise excise duties. This is happening in a situation where we all understand that the higher the excise duties will rise, the less they will receive. This is what I was talking about here on the remote as soon as the excise race started in Estonia: this, if you raise the tax rate, does not mean that the receipts are increasing, but it may mean the opposite. We've been chopped up for a year and a half that we don't know anything about anything, and everything's fine. Now they're trying to pretend that all right, a little mistake has been let in, but we fixed it. This bill doesn't fix anything, there's going to be an increase in excise duty. The fact that the slope is a little smaller than originally planned doesn't fix anything. So it is impossible for a sane person to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U10	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Literary classics are talking about half the task or the work that is done when the whole thing cannot be done. However, this does not apply to this draft, because it is not a task-solving and not even a partial solution. In the right case, it is a partial correction of errors, but it is hopelessly late as well. Of course, I was also pleased to hear from the Reform Party that alcohol duty should be lowered, but you yourself started to raise it prematurely. But yes, in 2017, when the new coalition came, several more winches were turned. At that moment, if it was high time it was time to do something about the border trade that has come to stay, stay for too long, stop and do something about it, they raised and even raised 70% and 45% of the goods that have already gone completely beyond all kinds of limits. I would like to remind everyone that, in 2014, I felt that there was a time for the Minister of Social Affairs in Taavi Rõivas, a Green Paper on alcohol policy was adopted. There is also one such point about the long-term planning of tax policy: 'In the next four years, increase alcohol excise duty by an average of 5% per year. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance will develop a long-term framework for alcohol taxation, including annual review of tax levels, a list of participants in the process, a description of the process and a list of indicators for assessing and changing tax levels. ' It is very reasonable that, in the context of alcohol policy and alcohol consumption reduction, it was also recommended to pay attention to the risks that may have arisen as a result of the sharp increase in the secret market that had previously been brought about by the sharp increase in excise duty and the border trade that was beginning to be visible in South Estonia at that time. If we put this matter in a broader context now, I would very much like us to have some reasonable tax agreement in the run-up to the 2019 Riigikogu elections, because so far everyone in tax policy has stuck to their obsession. One obsession was, among other things, to reduce the rate of income tax at a rate that has gone beyond force, and it has started to highlight all these small taxes that demolish the system in order to fulfil their promises, which have now gone completely overboard. The excise rise definitely belongs to this group. A separate question is that we do indeed have very small taxes on assets, commercial taxes on assets, while at the same time we have a very high level of taxation on labour. Such a tax policy, in which everyone is in their own trench and, in the end, such unthinking changes are being made, is simply not sustainable. This result of excise policy is a very warning example for us. It's 'too little and too late'. This is a correction for mistakes when we already have two clear proposals for border trade and excise policy. So the Free Party also sees no reason to support the draft tabled in this form with its votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U12	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is recalled that the IRL's initial plan was more ambitious than the current draft. The Minister of Finance proposed to the government to cancel the excise increase in February, as extensive border trade reduces excise taxes and is not beneficial for the Estonian economy. If alcohol is bought on a massive scale elsewhere, it is clear that this increase in excise duty will not reduce health damage either. The government coalition, however, came to an agreement that we have before us today. The increase in excise duties on alcohol is halved for both strong and lean alcohol. Under the new law, the rate of excise duty on spirits to enter into force from 1 February is EUR 25,08 per % vol. of ethanol per hectolitre. This is lower than what was foreseen by 2018 in the Act adopted in June 2015 on a proposal from the Government led by the Reform Party, with a rate of 26.28. For the sake of truth, it should be noted that the IRL was also in the government when this decision was made. However, this rate is also lower than that proposed by the Government of the former Government, also led by the Reform Party, which was made in July 2014 for 2018 and provided for an ethanol content of EUR 25,15 per % vol/hl. These figures and earlier decisions clearly show how Saul became Paul in the form of the Reform Party. Border trade towards Latvia has just started from the price difference for strong alcohol, and less income from excise duty is mainly related to strong alcohol, whose excise duty accounts for a lion's share, i.e. the circa 60%, of the income from alcohol duty. In my opinion, the Reform Party has no basis to blame the current government for the failure of its alcohol excise policy, since it was their own legalised level of excise duty on strong alcohol that was even higher. Obstruction of excise duty increases reduces the risk of reduced excise duties and reduces the likelihood of movements beyond retail chains and additional production borders. The volume of border trade is, unfortunately, likely to continue to grow this year, as a large part of the price difference between alcohol and other goods is not only due to differences in excise duties, but also due to other factors such as lower mark-ups. However, it is quite likely that we will continue to deal with excise issues both in this Chamber and at government level during the discussion of the state budget strategy, putting together the budget, and also in the meantime. In addition to the problem of alcohol, there are growing problems with excise duties and prices on fuel. We will monitor prices on the world market and then decide whether and when changes are needed. However, we do things in a row and start by adopting this current draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U14	Kalvi on behalf of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U15	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, My friends and friends, if we talked as much about bread and Estonian food as about alcohol in this hall, I would still be delighted. Unfortunately, we are talking here about alcohol, alcohol and alcohol. When a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, came to this remote control and said that the Reform Party Group and Jürgen themselves did not support this draft, I thought that sportsman Jürgen sincerely felt that the withdrawal of alcohol excise duty was a bad plan and that alcohol excise duty should continue to be increased, as stated in today's laws. As a sportsman, he should know that alcohol is one of the most harmful to health. We all know what causes social problems and domestic violence, and this is because of alcohol, alcohol and, again, alcohol. Colleagues have already said that the Reform Party was indeed among the initiators of the alcohol race and the increase in excise duty. So if you come all the way out here today to tell me why we're raising excises, that this is the wrong way, then, good friends of the Reform Party, you're the one who started this thing. I'm not so blue-eyed that I think alcohol duty is the only thing on which access to alcohol depends. Of course, alcohol duty is one of those things. Probably raising excise duty on alcohol to me, who I drink from time to time, and I will not change the consumption habits of my age generation, but I look at the young people who are on this balcony today, and I can say that I would be delighted if we could change the habits of their generation of alcohol consumption by increasing alcohol duty. That's what we're working for. Raising alcohol duty is one of the reasons why availability is reduced. That's what we have to work for. Of course we have border trade. Why has border trade been between Estonia and Finland all these years? There is a very simple reason for this: a Finn earns more than an Estonian. Why is it working today between Latvia and Estonia? Latvia's average wage is 900 euros, we have over 1200 euros, and that is where the difference comes from. Of course, there is a lower excise duty on alcohol in Latvia, as their average income is lower. So, dear friends, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party, we think that there really could be some reduction in the excise duty on lean alcohol to control the border trade caused by the increase in the excise duty on strong alcohol. We support the bill on our tables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U16	Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U17	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Acts and border trade have already been discussed here. I'm gonna talk to you about something else. We have already been adopted and there is a risk that a new excise duty will apply from 1 February. However, a step is now being taken to reduce this increase twice. You can say nice words here. Words don't matter. Paying for what you do, paying for what you support. Do you support the increase in excise duty in this Chamber now, or do you support the fact that this excise duty is halved? That's all it costs. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U18	The word Jürgen Ligi can be used to counter verbal, corporate and sometimes personal accusations.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U19	Thank you. No, actually, I know the Rules of Procedure don't stop you from talking nonsense or lying. I have no right to take the floor on that. But since my name was named, I must resist the slander that the Free Party began with and continued with the coalition parties. I can assure you that during my government there were excise duties... during my government... doesn't mean I'd run the government, but when I was in the government. [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]] Then there was a 5% increase in excise duties, as the Green Paper anticipated. From now on, this policy was changed by the Minister of the IRL, whose name I will not name, simply because he cannot answer me. He's a little bigger than me in terms of weight. That is where this risky alcohol policy really began. But what I was talking about was a 40% increase in alcohol duty and a 45% increase since last summer. It knocked the market out of place. After that, there is no point in talking about the harmfulness of alcohol, but it must be said that Estonians have started receiving alcohol much cheaper than before and are likely to drink more now than they drank before the increase in excise duty in July. So please don't slander me! Please listen to what they say and respect it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U20	Honourable Henn Põllamaas! The representative of the EKRE has already spoken in the negotiations and you also have no substantive reason for replying because EKRE has not yet been in government. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 559. Let's start the procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Social Democratic Party 559. Please take a stand and vote. 50 votes against and 32 against, with no abstentions. The draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Social Democratic Party has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U21	The second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Social Democratic Party Group. If I wish to speak, I will open negotiations between the political groups. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 560. Preparing for this begins now! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Social Democratic Party Group 560. Please take a stand and vote. 71 delegates voted in favour, 16 against and 1 abstention. Draft law 560 on the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Social Democratic Party Group has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U22	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu entitled 'Revocation of a member of the Board of the Guarantee Fund and appointment of a new member' by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please report to the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U23	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee decided to initiate the draft on 18 December. The launch took place on 20 December and on 8 January at our regular meeting we discussed this issue. Under the provisions of § 7 (1) (1) (1) and § 10 (1) of the Guarantee Fund Act, the Riigikogu has the right and obligation to appoint two members of the Riigikogu to the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund. As a rule, this figure has been 2 and it is also shown by one representative of the coalition and one representative of the opposition. From 1 June 2015 the members of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund were Martin Helme and Aivar Sõerd. During the last year, there have been two representatives of the opposition in the Board of the Guarantee Fund. That is why, on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we proposed to call back the member of the Riigikogu Aivar Sõerd and appoint a member of the Riigikogu Dmitri Dmitrijev as a member of the Council. According to § 117 (1) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, one reading takes place. So on 8 January the Commission adopted the following decisions: to send this draft decision to the Chamber today, to carry out the first reading and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U24	You have at least one question. Andres Herkel, please! I would remind you that every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask an oral question when dealing with this item. That right is now exercised by Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U25	Thank you, Mr President. I have the next question for the waitress. What are the substantive reproaches of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on Mr Sõerdi's competence in working in this Council? Are there any? Which is the most important criterion, competence or proper party membership? How would you compare the competences of Mr Sõerdi and the proposed candidate, Mr Dmitriev, in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U26	Thank you. I cannot, unfortunately, give you an assessment of the competence of Aivar Sõerdi as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund, because, according to my memory, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has never discussed any matter directly related to the Guarantee Fund. Of course, with regard to the five directions concerning pensions, insurance or anything like that, we have dealt with this, but not against the background of the Board of the Guarantee Fund. If the law had been determined, that is the answer to the other side of your question, a set of skills required of a candidate who is offered as a member of one Council or another, we would certainly have met these conditions. This is Section 3 of the Guarantee Fund Act, if I am not mistaken, paragraph 2, you can read it. Now I was wrong, it's § 8 'Requirements for a Council Member'. There's no mention here that we should compare someone's competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U27	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the end of last year, there were quite a number of changes to the work of the Guarantee Fund. First of all, the Council chose a new manager and, on the substantive side, the Council instructed the Guarantee Fund to focus more on resolution activities, international cooperation, stress tests and consolidation with the Financial Supervision Authority and the other resolution authorities. What is your view of these things, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has the Council done its work in the right direction? What is your vision of the future operation of the Guarantee Fund? One of the fundamental issues, of course, is the reference levels of the sub-funds, whether they are sufficient, etc. What's your vision?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U29	Thank you. I would like to remind you that we have not discussed in our sittings what my vision is and what your vision is. We have been talking about the fact that, according to good practice, whether you like it or not, there is a reservation here. For example, the chair of the Special Committee on State Budget Control and some other committee chairman belong to the opposition, regardless of whether the chairman is a competent person capable of creating a working atmosphere in this committee or a completely incapable person of managing it. We're always talking about the practice here. It's one of the customs, and it's always been that way. As regards the Guarantee Fund and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I would like to remind you that just now, when we have discussed this issue, the issue of how this fund works and whether it is satisfied has been raised. For some reason, those who are in the board of this fund have not been trying to tell us anything about this whole time. So I'm totally cool about it. It is a fund whose activities are described by a separate law. There are interesting provisions about how independent this fund is and about its powers. I'd say my heart is calm because of this foundation. There are enough competent people there, I think the competent ones are all there, and so it will continue to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U30	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. Your answer to my colleague, Andres Herkel, was a little amazement. You said that you did not really appreciate and do not consider it necessary to assess the competence of the members of the Council. What else is to be appreciated? My question is that when you discussed this amendment in the Commission, what were the substantive considerations and reasons? Why did the Commission consider it necessary to replace Aivar Sõerd and replace him as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund Dmitriev?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U32	Thank you for your question. You still don't listen to what I'm saying. But now I ask the members of the honourable Free Party Group that, as I am starting to recall history now, which you probably do not like, do not listen, okay? I will remind you of one of the dozens, but perhaps hundreds of cases, such as how you once set up the leading team of Estonian Air and how you made these decisions. The National Audit Office found that the 100 million-paying decision had been taken in such a way that no one had seen any documents. Don't talk about competence! I'm talking about customs. As far as competence is concerned, in this Riigikogu, this hall is chosen by the people of the 100th century, I will not talk about the smartest, brightest and most skilled people in Estonia. Of course, the next day after the election, they're about to be something... But that's it. We don't have a mission to assess competence, we don't have to. If someone puts on such a task, there must be a defined examination procedure, appeal procedure, etc. If that's what you want, make a suggestion. So let's do this, but first and foremost, at the level of the government, I'd suggest. That it is not the case that you put a person who has never, I hope, had such a side-by-side relationship with the police in life, in the sense that he has never been punished, but who knows absolutely nothing and who does not even have a higher education. I can give you dozens of these examples. Who, in your opinion, is this one of your high-ranking colleagues who has taken turns in charge of three ministries? So where's the real competence? Don't bullshit me!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U33	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U34	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Actually, you've talked about good practice several times. The question was prompted by the first questioner who today handed over a draft on good practice and proportionality at local government level. My question is whether we really should not follow the same principle on both sides, both in the local government, but also in the country and at the level of the Riigikogu. Why are we talking about one person in this case? In this council, the Riigikogu is represented by two people, a member of the Riigikogu. A good recommendation to the opposition would be to sit down, discuss and agree among yourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U35	That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U36	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! Your answers sounded like one of the problems was that there were two members of the opposition in the Council. On the other hand, you said there was no need to assess competence. But then, from your point of view, what were the substantive considerations, why was it necessary to make the vanging and the exchange?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U38	Thank you. The problem here is that your party wishes to comply with all practices when it gives you pros, but as soon as it brings you some cons, you will break the Riigikogu practices. I absolutely don't like it. I do not have any special personal complaints, and I do not, how can I say, express particular support for one or another member of the Riigikogu. This place in this council, somebody agreed on this thing, I wasn't there. But we had to send a man there, and in any case there was going to be a rotation. I have nothing to add to this, you should know very well how these processes take place in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U39	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Jürgen Ligi on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party will vote against this draft not because one of its members will be removed from the Council, but because we will vote against the logic represented here by the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that, if there is power, then any agency can be adopted and the person who does not have power can be rejected. All crews are manned by the pie-sharing method: we have power, we do. With regard to the Minister's seats on this subject were stabbed here, once again, it is indeed right to decide here on those who rule. Similarly, managers have the right to appoint members to company boards. It's their competence, and in it, mistakes remain their own responsibility. However, it is recommended that they select people who have dealt with these issues, have the right education, the right interests and the ability to overcome them. But the Guarantee Fund is not the coalition's. When determining the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund, the political balance of the moment and the competence of the people will certainly be monitored, but the Board of the Guarantee Fund does not need to change on the principle of piercing that if there is no power, you will lose the right to be there. This cannot be ruled out, but it should take place from the very point of view of intelligent reasoning. Of course, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs has repeatedly confirmed that he does not know anything about finances, but he is playing a role in this coalition. All right, we've been trying to be friendly. But the increasing mentality that if there is power, there must also be any profession, still disturbs. In this case, we are dealing with a person who certainly does not have the time to enter the topics of the Guarantee Fund. If a journalist came and asked Dmitri what this Guarantee Fund was, how he was created, what his roles are, I think Dmitri would be in very, very trouble. We don't want to see that news when he's been asked. I myself have been a member of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund, I also have a corresponding education, and I really know that in order to get there, you have to perceive the logic and history of its emergence. And it's gonna take a while. But among the politicians currently in the Council, Aivar is undoubtedly passionate about the details and content of the searcher, Dmitris will never be such a person. I appreciate, for example, the role of Eiki Nestor, who has been in this history and was a very good member of the Council in his time. But just pie-sharp the principle of reallocating any place, it's impudent. The Guarantee Fund deals with non-party financial stability and asset protection, not power sharing. This is a fundamental difference, which, of course, this group in this row, where the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs sits, cannot understand, because all decisions are made on this ground, so that you do better, get in power and also buy advertising from the propaganda channel and serve the interests of your constituents as well. It is not a question of your constituents. The Guarantee Fund is a tool for protecting the financial market, and there must be smart people, not party loyal ones. We will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U41	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U42	Honourable manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm making a call. First of all, thank you, of course, for the good words of the previous speaker. Indeed, I was a member of the Board of the Guarantee Fund from its creation until 2014, when it was no longer appropriate, and I have been there both as a minority and as a majority representative. My appeal is very simple. Now think of a situation where, for example, as a result of some change in power associations, there would be two representatives of the majority in the Board of the Guarantee Fund. So, what are we gonna talk about? Wouldn't we ask why the minority doesn't have a representative there? Yes, I would. Those of you who remember me longer in this hall know that I've always been, all these years, the winner-takes-all-mentality. Two things have led me to this conviction. Firstly, and above all, that a majority and a minority must be represented in one of the councils where the law provides for representation of the Riigikogu, because both the majority and the minority are elected by the people. Secondly, such representation provides an opportunity for these councils not to be attacked politically simply for the sake of score collection. With the previous speaker, I have a good experience, we have been together in the same Council, where there was a misfortune, and we solved this problem together with the previous speaker, one of us being on one side of Parliament. Both sides of the Riigikogu were represented in this council at the time and this allowed for reason, no political game to follow. That is why my appeal is simple. Ladies and gentlemen, in the future there could be one majority and one minority in any Council with two representatives. It is good for voters and fair to them, and so it is good for the institutions that we send people to the councils. I'm just saying, Aivar Sõerd is a very good member of the board. If the minority of the Riigikogu has decided today that it is someone else, then the minority knows who it is. There's certainly nothing to blame for his professionalism. This is the minority's decision to assess this professionalism.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U43	The word Jürgen Ligi will be the Replicator.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U44	Mr President, does the Rules of Procedure even allow such a line so that I can remind my colleague that in that Council, which was part of the compensation fund, we solved the problem together, belonging to the opposition together? Will the Rules of Procedure allow me to remind him of this Riigikogu board, in case he already mentioned my name?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U45	The content of the reply is in the hands of the maker of the reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U46	This also indirectly concerns financial stability and the financial sector. The two opposition ambassadors were very good at resolving the crisis, and they both represented a minority.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U47	Please, Andres Herkel, as well as the line!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U48	Thank you, Mr President. I think that these two competences and the balance between coalition and opposition are equally important for such Soviet assembly. Eiki Nestor here mentioned that if there are two places, they could be divided so that one has the opposition and the other has the coalition. I quickly looked at the council of RMK, for example, where only the representatives of the coalition concerning members of the Riigikogu are present, and when you look outside the Riigikogu, it is even more inclined. I think that, in this case, a number of other Councils should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-01-16_U49	There's no more lines or words, I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 565. Let's start the preparations. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Revocation of a member of the Board of the Guarantee Fund and the appointment of a new member', tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 565. Please take a stand and vote. 54 delegates voted in favour, 22 against and no abstentions. Draft 565 of the decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of a member of the Board of the Guarantee Fund and appointment of a new member" submitted by the Monetary Committee has been adopted as a decision. Dear Riigikogu, today's agenda items have been dealt with. In a military way, we're free. Dismissed! I'll see you tomorrow at 1:00. Closure of the sitting at 10.56 a.m.
