ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! In Question Time, 33 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Rene Tammist, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology and Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, are here today. As a result of the number of requests, I give you the opportunity to submit an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U2	First, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer and ask Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister, you made a nice appeal here a few days ago in terms of political culture, condemned violence, provocation, and everything else. That was an excellent appeal, with which I can no doubt agree. The fact that Estonia's political culture is becoming violent is absolutely unacceptable. But there was one question that remained in the air: I did not understand who or what exactly you condemned. I would very much like to hear that the Estonian political elite would still condemn the coming to a peaceful legal meeting to launches and attacks, to organise violations of law. I haven't heard that much. Could you repeat nicely that you condemn the fact that you come to a peaceful demonstration to provoke, kidnap and embezzle property and resist the orders of the organizers?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, first of all, thank you for this question. I'm gonna start by saying that I'm not some kind of political elite. I certainly don't count myself in the elite. I will do my job with my heart and try to resolve the issues that are important in Estonia. I must admit that when I looked at your question, I assumed that you were also concerned about all the incitement to hatred and the false campaign that has been planted in Estonia in recent weeks. In this sense, I thank you that you also agree with my appeal, where I really condemn physically violent behaviour on the streets. If you ask what or who I specifically mean, I certainly do not mean those people who come to meetings, to demonstrations to express their position with force and peace. What is all violent conduct that I clearly condemned in my appeal and condemn today as well. Clearly, our people are not involved in violent demonstrations. We have always been able to deal peacefully with differences. We have always been able to discuss these differences peacefully. The violence that has taken place in recent weeks makes me, of course, sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U5	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U6	Thank you. It saddens me that I didn't get an answer. We love to quote the Estonian Constitution to each other here. I quote in § 47 of the Constitution: 'Everyone has the right to meet peacefully and hold meetings without prior permission. 'According to the Constitution, 'the commission of individual offences, including crimes, during a meeting shall not justify its prohibition or disbanding if the peaceful nature of the meeting can also be ensured by ensuring compliance with the law, including, where appropriate, the removal of individual participants. [---] The State is obliged to ensure the safety of those wishing to attend the meeting by providing an opportunity for the peaceful conduct of the meeting, without fear of attacks by persons with different views. ' Last week's meeting was a legitimate and peaceful meeting, where there was an attack by people with different views. Among other things, there were ministers in your office, including the Minister of the Interior, who dealt with provocation and incitement to hatred. One of them attacked me personally when I spoke on stage. I'd still like to hear the condemnation of this attack.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U7	Thank you. Now I understand your question because you have become more specific. You're talking about your demonstration here in front of Toompea Castle. I say once again that I understand these people, and I am absolutely convinced that most of those who came to this castle in Toompea wanted to express their thoughts peacefully. But let's go more specifically to this demonstration of yours. That there were members of the Riigikogu and members of the government who also wished to explain questions about the migration framework to the residents of Estonia, I think it is very right. You have appointed representatives of the Social Democrats and ministers. I think they did the right thing, that they came to explain it. That's the way it's supposed to be. What I do not agree with for your demonstration, and also for your responsibility, is that if there are people pushing and punching, I would say, incitement to hatred. To be honest, the gallows were very appalling. I do not think this is appropriate in Estonian society. And I certainly cannot approve of such incitement in any way. I believe that most of the people who came there did not consider this pushing or hitting to be the right thing either. I condemn the images relating to one of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, Indrek Tarand. I strongly condemn how he was pushed off the stage, how he was pulled down in front of this castle, and how he was kicked. It is sad that we have crossed this line in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U8	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U9	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! It is, of course, very sad to hear that the Prime Minister has double standards: he cannot condemn the aggressive disturbance and disorder of a peaceful demonstration and condemns only one party who actually ended this disorder. You were talking about a gallows tree, so let's talk about a specific condemnation. On 13 November 2012, a meeting took place in Tartu, organised by the organisation 'Helps with False Politics', which started with 'Harta 12', initiated by Indrek Tarand, Marju Lauristin, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Silver Meikar and many other members of the nomenclature. There was also a nice poster 'Ansip and Savisaar gallows! ', with the gallows next to it. Don't you condemn what happened back then? Are you also aware of this and condemn the fact that Indrek Tarand wrote publicly in 2016 that all bourgeois nationalists should have a head shot? And two weeks ago, he threatened to hit anyone who didn't agree with him. Will you finally condemn it? Can you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U10	Thank you. It is clear that when we talk about all kinds of head shots or heads taken off, I am not talking about reality, but about the use of such words, you are, of course, right that it must be condemned unambiguously. There's nothing to say. I hope we are with you, Mr Madison, in this sense, in the same way that no one's head can be cut off and no one can be shot with a head shot. This is certainly not acceptable in today's democratic society. It is true that we have reached a point where such confrontation, incitement to hatred and emphasis on differences have led Estonian society to cross a line that I think we should never have crossed, as I answered the previous question. Violence must not and cannot be a means of resolving disagreements. I think we all need to take a step back and think about the consequences of our own actions before it is really too late. If you're saying that you were somehow attacked or physically attacked by your associates, you know we have the Police and Border Guard Board. Estonian police are working professionally and well. Well, I guess we'll have to make the police's messages. You're an assistant police officer, and you should know very well when such an episode took place. This episode, which I described, took place there after all, in pictures and videos. And then someone said that this Estonian citizen was drunk, which is not true. A check was made, and they said he was sober.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U12	Krista Aru now asks and answers Rene Tamm, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The low-tax private entrepreneur account has not yet started. How do you feel about this as Minister of Enterprise? It is known that both the tax office and the commercial banks have IT developments to do here. What's the deal with these jobs? And as Minister of Enterprise, do you at all assess the need for this business account to the extent necessary to contribute to its implementation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U14	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I believe that an entrepreneurial account is necessary and encourages people to start entrepreneurship. It offers people a simple, bureaucratic opportunity to engage in entrepreneurship. The Business Income Simplified Tax Act, adopted by the good Riigikogu, requires that an entrepreneur's account can only be opened in a bank or credit institution. It may have been reasonable to include alternatives to service providers in the law, as so far many banks have not taken practically any interest in the business account. However, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board has completed IT development. So the state has done its part. Now we expect the banks to be ready to provide the service. And I'm happy to announce that, according to my records, LHV is planning to start in January.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U15	Krista Aru, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this first reply. We hope that LHV will actually start offering this business account option from January next year. What else have you, as Minister of Enterprise, been able to do in the current situation where we do not have an entrepreneurial account and the supply chains of the economy are being blocked in many ways and in many places? I am thinking, above all, of high excise duties on fuel, which have had a very bad impact on domestic transport. What are your achievements over the time that you have been at work to make any progress in this very regional trade, in business at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U17	Thank you, good questioner! The task of the state in supporting entrepreneurship is to mitigate and encourage the risks of starting a business. To this end, we have constantly reduced red tape. For example, aid and advice for start-ups now move from EAS to a coordinated collection of regional development centres. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is their direct partner and direct communication allows for cutting red tape. I have also simplified the rules for start-up loans and simplified and substantially extended the conditions for industrial loans. I think these are important steps in the right direction. One key word certainly is how to reduce red tape for start-ups and businesses that are already operating. Many principles, such as one-off requests for data, the abolition of applications or other demands and the acceleration of national communication, are already in work. I would also like to point out that the Index Ventures has not assessed Estonia's business environment as the world's best example for start-ups. I believe that a lot has been done here, although I also agree with the questioner that much more can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U18	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The business account principle is good, but this system also has certain disadvantages. One quite important point is that the company cannot deduct material costs there. Would it not be possible to redefine or expand this system so that material costs can also be deducted there? Then, of course, these limits should also be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U20	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, the business account is really addressed to natural persons. It is not even aimed at self-employed persons or legal persons, but only at natural persons whose annual income does not exceed EUR 25000. The simplicity of the case is that this income is automatically taxed by the Tax and Customs Board: 20% deductions are made each month. The tax rate on income exceeding this amount is already 40%. So it is still aimed at those whose turnover is low and who, through the business account, can give encouragement to pay taxes honestly and with little bureaucracy. I believe that this solution is correct in itself, and I think that when LHV starts providing this service, there is also interest in it. It is also possible, of course, to consider changes in this measure or solution, but I think that we should wait for it to be implemented. After we have the lessons, we could take stock and make amendments from this point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U22	Next, Prime Minister Jüri will ask Ratas Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U23	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! According to the audit of the National Audit Office, municipal media is still largely a place of theft where rulers advertise themselves, denigrating competitors and not really doing a local thing at all. And heroes have been on this front all along, mostly controlled municipalities of the Centre Party. Three quarters of these examples come from Tallinn and 13% from Loksa. Apparently, the rest are mostly examples of your party style. Taavi Aas, your close fellow fighter, has claimed that the city doesn't interfere, it's a free press, and there's no problem here. Tell me whether you agree that this is a free press, it is an honest way of competing politically, or you will also see some problems in this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U24	Thank you, good questioner! First two words about this audit or report of the National Audit Office. I doubtless think that the National Audit Office is thorough and his report and these proposals are in many respects constructive and must be taken seriously. That's point one. Secondly, I would like to say that any press, including the issue of local newspapers, must be professional: it must be transparent and it must certainly follow good journalistic practices. Now, this problem you have raised has been up for quite a while and the local government leaders have approached it differently. There are local government leaders who say that the city or local government publications may be, but there must be no pictures or stories of the local government director. And there is another opinion that it makes sense when we talk about informing the public, whether it is a planning process, various events or passing on the decisions of local governments. Now for the disparage you've been talking about. In any case, I don't think it's right to disparage, and I don't think it should be in the municipal publications. This is not just about Tallinn or Loksa you mentioned, but about all 79 municipalities. I think that, in any case, it must be based on the professional and transparent provision of information concerning this community, these residents. If the publication comes from it, I think everything is transparent and balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U25	Jürgen Ligi, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U26	Thank you. The point is that these publications are not balanced. It is estimated that more than 90% of such ugliness comes from the controlled municipalities of the Centre Party, where the views and faces of the Centre Party, who support the Centre Party or are even middle party members, are still immensely exhibited. It is not dominated by local politics, but also by national politics, one of whose heroes you are personally. If you browse the Stolitsa and the Capital until the last moment these brands even belonged to the Centre Party, then there is no doubt that it is not the press, it is biased election advertising. Tell me if you have a moral assessment of the picture that opens up there. I am also referring to other publications and Tallinn TV.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U27	Thank you. First of all, you mentioned various publications here, Stolitsa and the Capital. As far as I know, both Stolitsa and Capital are members of the Tallinn Television Press Council. So there's always an open-ended way of complaining. If you ask for my assessment, I want to talk about what the mayor of Tallinn has said in this case or procedure. He has stressed that local government leaders should not interfere with the work of newspaper editorials, and this principle must apply throughout Estonia, in all 79 local governments. I really do not think that one municipal newspaper is put together on the basis of what the municipality's elder, councillor or mayor says. Now from your criticism that there are pictures of the members of the Central Party in the Capital and Stolitsa. You know what it's about. This is due to local elections and election results. The residents of Tallinn have given me the fifth time if I am not wrong and thank them very much for this! In local government elections, 50% of the seats of Tallinn City Council or more, this time 79 places 40. It is true that a coalition agreement has been signed in Tallinn with the Greens, but in a large number of positions, both as deputy mayors and as mayor, people who really belong to the Centre Party. Well, that's why you see more of them there, isn't it? If we take up the parts of the city, I can say for sure that there are also members of administrative bodies that are not members of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U28	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U29	Thank you. Prime Minister! This use of public money in private political interests is first of all a bad practice in terms of using public money, but also in terms of political competitors and society as a whole. In the audit of the National Audit Office, the ranking of vicious practices is indeed such that it is enthroned by the newspaper Stolitsa, followed by the Capital, and then there are a number of other examples from Loksa. I'm going to ask you a question about Loksa. In the course of the administrative reform, you have, as you know, made an exception for Loksa, leaving a municipality with 2700 inhabitants unmandatory, while you did not allow this exception for the significantly larger entities. How are you going to look at this decision afterwards? Is it really fair, ethical and right? If the decision had been different, Loksa would probably have put a stop to this kind of stealing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U30	Thank you. I hope the Chairman of the Riigikogu, but Jürgen Ligi, above all, won't mind. After all, he has asked me a question and worked hard to prepare it on municipal media, but you are now asking about the reform of local government, why is Loksa a separate municipality? I guess the background to your question is, why hasn't he been attached to Kuusalu parish, for example? I'll answer if I don't interrupt. As you know, the reform of local government has been important to the current government coalition. I think that what started with the previous government and the minister in this area was half a step in the right direction. The current government has also considered it important to address the issue of the local government's financial base through an increase in the percentage of personal income tax. We've raised it too. And I really think that the fact that we had 79 out of 213 municipalities after last October's local elections is a step in the right direction. If the question is whether to move forward with the reform of the municipality and whether 79 is sufficient (including Loksa's example), I think that sooner or later, I hope that the reform of this municipality will be taken forward in the past. If your assessment is that one local government is stealing, as you said in your question, this is a very strong assessment from a member of the Riigikogu. It is certainly also a very serious assessment, and it will have to be dealt with then. If you have information that such activity is taking place in the municipality, you must inform the relevant authorities. If you don't have this information, I don't think it's worth waving those sentences that one or the other government is stealing. I consider the municipalities to be very honest, and I believe that these people actually stand up for the development of their community.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U32	Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, answers and asks Tiina Kangro. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U33	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Social services have been well developed in recent years, which is very nice, but since they are mostly classic services of the old European style, their price has been quite high. For example, if a disabled child's family can give child care services to a child care centre by the end of the week, the Social Insurance Board will pay nearly 500 euros for it, but if the family cares for the child at home, the benefit for the disabled child will be 80 euros for the whole month. At best, the mother receives an additional 20 euros of care allowance. There are still examples. The question is how the Ministry of Social Affairs sees the future. Will these super expensive services, however, become available to everyone in the coming years, or will you also develop some cheaper solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! The question really makes sense because these services have been developed and provided from different sources of funding, different projects and measures, i.e. they have become quite different. In order to create a more comprehensive system and to ensure that services are reasonably accessible to all, as you stress yourself, the Ministry is preparing the transformation of social benefits and services for people with disabilities to make them logical. We are so far away that our working group will soon be going to talk to target groups about proposals to review what broader plans might be. But in order not to wait so long, we are, of course, working every day to ensure that new services are as flexible and supportive as possible, not so costly or, for example, round-the-clock. Rather, we encourage services that support living at home: interval and day care. It is known that, in special care, we started day and interval care this year precisely in order to take the pressure off the 24/7 service and to make it possible, easy and logical to care for people at home. At the moment, we have concerns that we have not been able to create as many service places as we had in mind, that the need is obviously greater. And in order to solve this particular problem, that there are no suitable rooms, we will announce a grant round of EUR 700000 at the beginning of the year. It must be possible to adapt these rooms in order to really create those 'flexible places' throughout Estonia that can be used for both day and interval storage. By the same logic, we want to move forward with other services.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U35	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U36	Thank you. In most cases, however, these services are guided by the logic that professionals provide the service. Does the ministry also discuss the view that individuals, those involved, could be allocated personal budget resources or some kind of amount within which they could self-think how to organise their own assistance?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U37	This is the right direction and approach, so that resources can be used sensibly: money, people's own contribution, and, if necessary and possible, volunteers. We are now moving in this direction in order to implement them more. The municipality of residence has started to involve volunteers in certain counties in order to become good practice. But I can already see a place that is not so well realized, where a more personalised approach can be used and perhaps a better service can be provided with less money. I am thinking about the support for children with severe and profound disabilities targeted at local authorities, which remained largely unused last year. We have worked very hard, talked about it and directed local authorities to make better use of this money, because there are no longer such strict restrictions as a few years ago. It is also possible to provide financial support, precisely so that some services can be used better. It is not possible to provide direct permanent support, but it is possible to obtain this money for the use of services. Perhaps we would like to get so far that the local government, which is always closest to the person and sees local situations, can combine public services, municipal services and its financial resources in such a way as to achieve the best possible economic result. Of course, we want to get so far that when a person turns and says that he has a problem, if it is not possible to solve it quickly at that point, the person who solves the case will eventually turn to the person whether the situation has been resolved. It is important that the problem is not left hanging in the air and the optimal solution is still found, because there may indeed be situations that cannot be resolved from day to day.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U38	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I will continue here and ask you about the care allowance. Caring for a sick person is a very serious, time - and - nervous job. Are there any national standards for carer benefits? Are they subject to certain criteria, or are these grants still solely local authority? I know that the Maintenance Burden Task Force recommended the introduction of these common national criteria. How far is it, and how do you plan to move on with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U40	Thank you. That is a very topical question. According to the current rules, carer benefits and also home services, support services are indeed a local authority's responsibility, i.e. these volumes and price scales are determined by the local government. And we all know that the scissors are very large, and this may not only be about the amount of carer support, but also about the other services. If home services are provided to a sufficient extent in the municipality, perhaps the situation is much more milder on other issues. It is therefore a question of both the other services and the remuneration of the adult care service you mentioned. This care allowance has, of course, been paid out by local governments for the care of children. We are going ahead of the government with the above-mentioned work programme to modernise the entire system of disability benefits and services. We planned to make it to the government office in December. Obviously we will not be able to get there in December, and it will be pushed to January, because the subject is very broad, as we can understand. But one of our shaves written down there, and the goal is that it is also necessary to reach national standards when establishing carer support. While the municipality can choose whether to offer or combine one or the other service, there should also be a logical basis for ensuring a minimum level. Of course, the goal is not to activate or encourage people to stay home to care for their loved ones as much as possible. The aim is rather that we have the services by which people can get out, that we can carry out ourselves. But there are situations in which a person himself cares about his or her loved one, even then there must be logical and reasonable help.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U42	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U43	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu, and thank you again, Prime Minister Ratas. We will look again at a subject that continues to be topical and which has been signed by nearly 18,000 people in Estonia. This topic is Estonia's accession to the UN Migration Pact, i.e. the Migration Framework. Parliament has given its guideline, which is to say 41 votes. Due to Estonian constitutional law and the opinion of all state scientists, this position has also been expressed by the renowned expert of state sciences Paloma Krõõt Tupay, the government must now decide whether or not Estonia will join this migration framework. It may also take into account Parliament's guideline. But you have ignored this question. My question, therefore, is whether the government will put this cabinet on the agenda and take a decision on which it will or will not take Parliament's guideline into account. Will you continue to deal with this in the government now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U44	Thank you very much for this question. I think what you're doing, that's the question. In one rule of law, in a democratic country, there must be a debate in which we really discuss the matter, we use the word force and various arguments. I agree with the legal scientists here and certainly with one of the authors of the Estonian Constitution, Jüri Raidla. He has stressed that the fact that such a debate was brought to the level of the Riigikogu in Estonia is not a crisis but a triumph of parliamentarianism. And I think that was the right move in this situation. You are well aware that the government is working on the principle of consensus, and if it is not on any issues, then it is right to bring the debate to the wider ground. That's what we did. I took responsibility, too. I said this morning, if I am not mistaken, then it was Monday day, that if the honourable Riigikogu says that the government needs to discuss it again, I will take it to the government and, if necessary, I will vote on it. Both the Free Party and the Reform Party had proposed such amendments. If I am not mistaken, these were Amendments 11 and 12. They were not supported here in the Riigikogu Hall, but a statement was supported, which says that the Riigikogu supports Estonia's accession to the Migration Framework. That's the base. The government has discussed this at the end of March, on 22 March, and I see no reason why the government should discuss it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U45	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U46	Thank you. It is nice to hear compliments, although I must say that you often miss the point of the question. The power of the word is important, but all forces are important, especially for us. But have you read the law of foreign communication and the law of the government? Both say very specifically that foreign policy is carried out by the government, as you say, on the basis of the principle of consensus. Parliament may issue guidelines, opinions and recommendations, but external communication and foreign policy are carried out by the government. That is a matter of principle. The Riigikogu itself cannot violate the law of foreign relations or the law of the government; it can make recommendations. Hence my question: will you bypass these laws and no longer discuss Estonia's accession to the migration pact in the consensus-based government, or will your starting point be the decision of March, according to which Estonia decided to join the agreement on the basis of the consensus principle, which in turn means that the Party Isamaa will agree with your government today that we will join this UN pact?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U47	Thank you. I understand you're getting this debate a lot wider. First of all, the Fatherland. After all, the Fatherland has said very specifically and clearly that they do not support joining the Migration Framework, they do not support joining it. Surely we must accept this, respect the Fatherland's decision. That's why the government couldn't find a common language here. And I thank the 39 members of the Riigikogu who considered it right to shape the Riigikogu's position on this matter. The government discussed this agreement on 22 March, and I think that none of the three sections of the government will back away from the principles that the government put in place at the time. These principles are very clear: Estonia does not support refugee quotas; Estonia does not support mass immigration. When we are talking about the adoption of refugees, which do not come very close to the issue of the migration framework, you know very well that we do not have any binding international obligations to establish a refugee quota, nor within the European Union. Estonia does everything only voluntarily, and I believe that it must remain so. Since we are debating with you now, I say that if the EKRE thinks that we should start receiving refugees under the quota, my answer is no, the current government will not support it. The government's view is that we do not support refugee quotas, we do not support mass immigration, but it can always be debated. So I say honestly that I am based on what the honourable Riigikogu has decided.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U48	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U49	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister, I understand from your first answer that we have a double standard: if Rene Tamm, sitting next to you, comes to take me off the microphone right now and I try to repel her, then I am guilty of violence, but if I come to take away the microphone from you right now while you answer, and you try to reject me, then I am guilty of inciting violence. I understand that we have the same laws for some people and different laws for others. But the question that Jaak Madison asked you was still unanswered. Parliament's statement is not a mandate, Parliament's statement is not a mandate, and a number of laws require the government to adopt a position. The government has not taken a position. On what grounds? And please do not say that on the basis of the opinion of 41 Members of Parliament. On what basis will our ambassador go to the United Nations and join this pact if neither the government nor Parliament has authorised him to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U50	Thank you. Although I am here today as a representative of the executive power, I would like to take a strong step towards defending the legislative power. I believe that the importance and decisions of the Riigikogu must be respected, not said that it does not matter what the Riigikogu, which has been chosen by the highest authority, says. You, too, are members of the Riigikogu, and his decisions are still very important. And you are right: the Riigikogu has indeed said by the mouth of 41 ambassadors that Estonia supports this migration framework. If you continue to pick on, there are also very different opinions among the members of the Riigikogu, the political parties represented in the Riigikogu. I take, for example, the greatest opposition force. I apologize to you, but the Reform Party is still the biggest opposition force. At one point, on 12 November, I read the assessment of Kaja Kallas, President of the Reform Party, that the government has not sufficiently informed the public or the Riigikogu about the UN Migration Framework, but given that the document is not binding and that most allies join it, Estonia should also join. Kallas stresses the need to discuss the migration framework in Parliament and, in his view, the government has not provided sufficient information on this. A few days later, on 19 November, Kaja Kallas, President of the Reform Party, said that the issue of the migration framework could not be brought to the Riigikogu because it was the work of the government to decide on it. Fortunately, here the spokesperson of the Reform Party, who said in this virvarris to the ERR, that the Reform Party has not made any formal decisions on this matter, and in the first case it was the opinion of Kaja Kallas. So get you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U52	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas must now answer the question posed by Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! First of all, one of the previous questions, the answer of which did not go in the direction that the question assumed. I may have to ask you a written question about the audit of the National Audit Office and about Loksa. But let me now go to something in which our common sense is probably greater, this concerns the situation in Ukraine. As we know, the Riigikogu adopted a declaration yesterday in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in connection with the events of Kerch. We defined it as aggression and talked about the need to extend sanctions. I am concerned, in particular, about the quite sluggish reaction of the democratic world, which is also my question, as soon as all possible meetings of the Councils of the European Union and other international forums are coming. What can and will Estonia do to ensure that the reaction of our Western allies and international organisations is stronger, clearer and more unambiguous?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U54	Thank you. If I may, I will briefly answer the first half of this question, Loksa. Of course, I am happy to read the written question and certainly to give a thorough answer. But what we're gonna do here is, if we have to, we're gonna go to Loksa with you and we're gonna look at this situation. They always say their eyes are king. If you now come to this serious issue of the Kerch Strait, your question was that the democratic world is relatively sluggish. We can say today that very many international organisations have discussed what Estonia can do. I personally gave my initial opinion on 26 November. I checked out my application at 00.39 and the content was as follows: 'What happened in the Kerch Strait is a serious violation of international law. I condemn Russia's actions in the capture of Ukrainian naval vessels, the closure of the Kerch Strait and the aggression against Ukraine. I support the call by the European Union and NATO to deescalate the tense situation in order to avoid further development of the conflict. ' We know that, in addition to this, the European Union Council will meet next week, as you rightly said. I think that's where the subject will come to the table. Looking at how preparations are being made in the Foreign Affairs Council, I believe that this issue will also reach the table of the leaders of the European Union. At least I hope so. It cannot be said that the attitude has been completely sluggish because, at NATO level and actually at European Union level, the corresponding statements have been adopted. It is certainly important to us that this issue continues to be topical in the forthcoming Council, as I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U55	Andres Herkel, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, first of all, I really thank both you and the other members of the government for their timely and rapid statements, but the assessment that the international response is sluggish is based on the way forward. If there are such statements from the Kremlin that this so-called aggression, spite and war will not end until there is a change of regime in Ukraine, the situation will still be extremely serious. My question is this: will you go out in the European Union with a proposal to extend sanctions and, if so, what concrete options do you see for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U57	Thank you. When it comes to sanctions, Estonia is really ready to support the extension, extension or strengthening of the European Union's restrictive measures. It is certainly a question of how large this support area is within the European Union. Why did I say that we cannot say that the reaction of the democratic world has been sluggish, as you put it? It has still not been quite sluggish: when you look at the statements of foreign ministers from different countries, the ambassadors from foreign ministries, for example, they have been unambiguously condemning. In addition, some Heads of State have made a statement. I remember, for example, the statement by the President of Lithuania and the President of Finland, in addition to what I read. After that, there must have been more. After all, Estonia is based here on this core issue or the emphasis that we support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. And for your particular question, I gave you an answer from the very beginning. So I guess these negotiations will come before the Council when it is being prepared. You know very well, Mr Herkel, that this precise wording and the exact agenda depend very much on the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U58	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U59	And now the Prime Minister has to answer the question posed by Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U60	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister, your government is the first in Estonia's history and probably the only one who has gone into retirement income. Despite the good times of the world economy, the government has made this rather cynical choice to take working pensioners into government spending. And if you look at who they are, they're really people who want to be active. These are experienced workers who are needed on the labour market. These people contribute to the Estonian social system. We've been arguing about this for about a year. It is my position and our position that the higher taxation of pensioners must be changed. The bill is in the process, and its cost is clear - 30 million, or about as much as the government larisas for roofing money, instead of making more important decisions. Well, given that the answer tends to be round, I'm going to ask you a simple question. Does the government understand that it is inherently wrong for pensioners to cover the government's desire to spend in good times? In comparison, it's the same as Grandma giving a man a viable booze. So as not to misunderstand my comparison, I'm going to say that by grandmother, I mean pensioners and a viable man, your government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U61	Thank you. The question has been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U62	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I think it is very welcome to see you again in Question Time, Mr Kristen Michal. I haven't had a chance to debate with you in a long time, and I guess I've missed that a little bit. You cursed the current government on your question, painted such a picture. It doesn't have to be like this, but unfortunately, that's the handwriting of the Reform Party. On the contrary, the current government has made every effort to improve the situation in Estonia for people who have done their job and who are receiving a pension in order to increase their purchasing power. I understand that you are currently bringing the game into the income tax-free minimum, the theme of the biggest tax reform of this century. You know very well that this is not just about pensions. You know very well that this is related to income. When we talk about older people, these two are related: pension plus salary when they work. If you are really worried about you, you have also brought a personal example here, I think you should be concerned about the relative poverty threshold. We have the latest data from 2016, when the relative poverty threshold was 468 euros and the average old-age pension was nearly 100 euros lower than today. We know that this year the average old-age pension will be EUR 447. And if we compare these data, the 2016 relative poverty threshold, EUR 468 and the average old-age pension of this year, EUR 447, the pension is still very low compared to two years ago. I think this is a really unacceptable situation. And if we stand together with the Reform Party to increase pensions, it is already a pretty strong force.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U63	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U64	Thank you, Prime Minister. I was a little afraid that the analogy of Grandma giving a man a viable booze would be the answer to the Central Party program. But I'll keep asking. We have an important change here on which the future pension depends. The government has planted it quite secretly, without even having a consensus. The result is likely to be the same as the tax system for the type of chicken reindeer, which means that your pension is less and less dependent on social tax. I have a question why the government is trying to take Estonia in the direction that working pensioners, or experienced workers, are not welcome in the labour market, they are covering government expenditure and less dependent on the person's own contribution in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U65	Thank you. You may have been a little rusty at the beginning of Question Time, but the second came out much more concretely and better. Now I understand: you are talking about a new pension reform and this bill. If you ask what its main orientations are, then point one is linking the retirement age to life expectancy and point two is making retirement more flexible, which I think is very important. The aim is certainly also to reduce the inequality in pensions. I dare say that this step taken by the Commission, that the first pillar or level of pension should be based on the 50: 50 principles, is certainly a step in the right direction. I would emphasise once again: we see that people's lives are growing, which is good, and it is certainly the right approach to linking the age of retirement in the interests of flexibility. Of course, we must also work alongside this to extend our healthy lives. But the initiative to reform this pension system came from the previous government, as far as I know, and the current government has moved on with it. So this is a very fundamental change.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U66	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U67	Thank you. It seems to me that you have not exactly hit the core that this change brings with it, because the talk about increasing the flexibility of retirement is simply not true. For example, if a person retires three years later, the current regulation will give him or her a bonus, i.e. he or she will receive an additional pension of more than three years. It motivates him to retire later. Just as now, before retirement age, you can retire, but in this case you lose. For example, if he retires three years earlier, he loses more than three years of money, which once again motivates him to work longer. Now it is changing: a person is no longer receiving such a bonus, it is decreasing to a very, very large extent, which actually demotivates working longer. Do you actually understand what this pension change entails?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U68	Thank you, good Taavi in the garment! I don't know if you heard or didn't hear, but I also recognised the previous government that started this pension reform. Clearly, you've got a lot of stuff jammed up and we had to finish it. I think it is important that the keyword of work that you said in your question is that a person is motivated to work. If we take the current system and, for example, the same pre-retirement, there is a rule that a person cannot work during a pre-retirement period, he loses. With the new system, with the new reform, this restriction will disappear and people will be motivated to work more. In any case, I think it is right to bring more people back to the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U69	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, ministers Kaia Iva and Rene Tammist! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U70	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the Wednesday session. Does anyone else really wish to hand over drafts or enquiries to this Riigikogu? I don't want to today. Incoming check, please! 77 members of the Riigikogu are present. It is necessary to clarify the agenda. In the debate on today's 22nd item, the draft law amending the Law of Proof initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws at first reading, Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U71	Last day, the session ended when we discussed the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act 701. Jüri Adams, the rapporteur for the draft act, answered questions from members of the Riigikogu. Please, George Adams! Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I expect that we should also have freedom of association or the right of association under the protection of the Constitution. The restriction of electoral alliances has given the impression that it limits our political rights, as well as our freedom of association. I know that one counter argument is that freedom of association should be extended to individuals, not groups and... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U73	I'm sorry, Andres Herkel! Honourable ambassadors! [[???Hääl saalist: 'Kas saaks korrata?'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U74	Yeah, I'd love to say it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U75	Please, anyone who needs to talk to each other, do it at the door! Andres Herkel, please ask your question again!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U76	Thank you. The talk is about not allowing electoral alliances in elections to the Riigikogu. This, in my opinion, ties in with the concept of the right of association or freedom of association, which, in my view, should be protected by the Constitution. There is one argument, yes, that this applies first and foremost to individuals, not to organisations and groups, which I believe to be debatable, and, in fact, we are also forbidden to have citizens' electoral alliances. So one way or another, here I think this issue of freedom of association arises. I would ask the honourable rapporteur to open this concept in the sense of constitutionality and also to assess whether my thinking that this is an important offense is a reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U77	Thank you, Mr Herkel, for your question. We do not have the right of accession in the abstract and general form of the Constitution, as it is set out, for example, in one of the fundamental documents of democracy, in the declaration of the rights of the person and of the citizen during the French Revolution. But there was also no attempt to give it very inclusively, it has been said mainly in the sense that people have the right to join in all reasonable forms of political collective action by free will and do all reasonable things together, unless they do directly harm or harm to anyone. The Estonian Constitution has spoken about this in two places. The first paragraph of § 48, which says that everyone has the right to unite in non-profit organizations and associations, is now the most important to us, and here is the second sentence that only Estonian citizens may belong to political parties. This second sentence is necessary because 'everyone' of the Constitution II. For the purposes of Chapter 3, all persons legally residing in Estonia shall mean persons irrespective of their nationality. That is why this second sentence is necessary. Political parties are a type of non-profit organisation which is not allowed to belong to non-citizens. The second place where this has been discussed is § 31 of the Constitution. The right of association is spoken of here with a profit-making aim: Estonian citizens have the right to engage in entrepreneurship and to be concentrated in profit-making associations and associations. Here is the important difference that at the beginning of the sentence there is the word pair 'Estonian citizens', which, in the meaning of Estonian law, must mean that citizens have a certain privileged position in business or income activities; non-citizens have these rights only in so far as this is not limited by law. We have a certain history of merger law. We have come from the Soviet era when the Soviet power did not really recognise such a right, either at the level of individual people or at the level of organisations. Organization as such was generally forbidden. When we regained our independence, there was a remarkable turn. In fact, the creation of legal entities began in Estonia, I would say, a madhouse. For at least ten years there was such an understanding that the right of association means that people form a legal person. The topic for Estonian lawyers was that people could, in principle, exercise the right of association in other forms, without forming a legal person. In this sense, this was different during Estonia's first independence. It was then typical that the merger and joint action were carried out without a legal entity being formed. The formation of a legal person was rather complicated and not very common, it was a rare phenomenon, for which certain complex procedures had to be carried out. The joint action of individuals was not finally recognised until the Law of Obligations Act was passed. Perhaps you will remember, there are some chapters about association. In principle, this word has become used in the future in a way that is just like a separate smaller form of a legal person called a partnership. This interpretation is not correct; it must be understood that all people can act together without forming a legal entity. There are two main forms: people who are going to act together can enter into a written agreement, and the second possibility is that they will not enter into a written agreement and, in the event of a dispute, they will be derived from their joint action and the conclusion of the words spoken among themselves as to whether or not the joint action existed. The principle of the association agreement is that if people spend any kind of expenses in their own pockets in their joint activities and if they owe someone in their own business, in order for the creditor to be entitled to receive his debt, a certain procedure has been granted. That's the chapter. But in political law, we went this way from the very beginning, so that, in order to submit candidates' lists when they were elected, the legal entity was required from the outset. There must be a non-profit association, and there must also be this special form, called a political party, which is subject to party law. Here again there is an important difference from the first time in Estonia. Indeed, in the first republic, before the war, it was quite possible to declare itself a party without having formed a legal person. In principle, it was enough that three Estonian citizens took a written statement to the nearest police station stating that they formed a party. The party had been formed by handing over this paper. It was that simple. In order to submit a list of candidates, there was no need for any particular preparatory work. That's what I said last night, I had to put in that list and bail it out. It is true that I do not now have much certainty as to whether there has ever been a list in the Estonian elections, in which the founding members had not declared themselves a party. It is quite possible that this was the case, but I am not a historian of this field. But on the subject of the draft is important for Constitution II. the two paragraphs of Chapter 3. The first of these is § 9, the second paragraph of which states that the rights, freedoms and obligations listed in the Constitution extend to legal persons in so far as they are compatible with the general objectives of legal persons and the nature of such rights, freedoms and obligations. It should be very clear from this that if one party, a legal person bearing the name of a party, has the right to submit a list of candidates, why should two or three parties not have this right jointly? We look at the same question in the light of § 11, which says that rights and freedoms must be restricted only in accordance with the Constitution and must be necessary in a democratic society and must not distort the nature of the rights and freedoms that are restricted. If, at present, two or more political parties are not allowed to submit a common list of candidates, this right is clearly limited. In the light of this paragraph, one should first ask whether this restriction is compatible with the current Constitution. I cannot find any other place in the Constitution, which says that the list of candidates proposed by one party is somehow more correct and significantly better than the list of several candidates submitted jointly. This should come from a section of the Constitution, or at least there should be some serious suspicion that what would be wrong if such a thing were allowed to happen. The second sentence here says that a restriction must be necessary in a democratic society and must not distort the nature of the right to submit candidates on the list. It does not make any sense of what it is necessary and what it would be a distortion. I don't know. A more serious problem begins after we have two methods of constitutional control in place. One method is to do something in life. For example, two political parties decide to submit a common list of candidates, the electoral commission refuses to accept it and gives an explanation that the law does not allow it. The two parties would then have the right to apply to the courts for constitutional review. Theoretically, it sounds beautiful, but it's practically not feasible. It's such a long and complicated venture that it's crazy when someone tries to do it. Another option for constitutional review would be for the Chancellor of Justice to initiate the matter, but so far no Chancellor of Justice has seen enough problems to initiate it. Maybe this thing will heal. The third method is partly what I am doing here, trying to explain to the members of the Estonian legislative assembly that, for some reason, things have gone wrong since 1998, we already have an organisation that is not in accordance with the Constitution for almost 20 years, and it would be easier to bring the Constitution into line by the Riigikogu changing the text of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U78	Dear Jüri Adams, the questioner apologizes to the waitress for leaving the room. The answer was very thorough and the plane left. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear George Adams! Indeed, the explanatory memorandum states that electoral alliances were banned in 1998, just before the elections of the Riigikogu in 1999, but it has not been explained what was the reason for this ban, whether there was some confusion with the electoral alliances, whether they were inefficient. What really was the reason for this ban?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U80	This ban was introduced, as usual, by amending the text of the Riigikogu Election Act. Before that, there was a passage in the law under which it was permitted, but that passage was deleted. Its section number was 27 at the time, and it is also set out here in the text of the explanatory memorandum, and this procedure, which was in force in its time, is literally written. What is its hinterland? I have not found the time or opportunity to review the verbatim and protocols of the Riigikogu and the Constitutional Committee at the time. Maybe something would work out, maybe it wouldn't, I don't know. The knowledge of recent history is generally rather poor, since there has been no serious historical study of this period, the nineties. I've heard two versions that may be true both at the same time, but I can't confirm if that was the case. The first version is that at that time the Russian group had joined the VIII Riigikogu. There were a number of small Russian parties in Estonia at the time, there were three or four, they had gone to the elections with a common list, and if I am not mistaken, they had six seats in the Riigikogu. One version is that the political forces that dominated that time wanted such a group to be formed in the next Riigikogu no longer possible. In retrospect, it is very difficult to decide who might benefit. In view of the fact that the votes of all such voters were later concentrated under the Centre Party, one might assume that it was beneficial to the Centre Party. Was that the intention, I don't know what to say? The second version, which I have been told by the people who were here at the time, is that this change was the result of the initiative of President Lennart Meri, who intervened quite a bit behind the tent in day politics. At the time, his favourite party was a party that already existed and still exists, although its lines are now completely empty in this Chamber, namely the Reform Party. It has been as if it had been intended to create a better position for the Reform Party in the 1999 elections and, on this road, to prevent the possible accession of other parties to the common list, in contrast to the Reform Party. That's what I've been told, I don't have any personal knowledge of it. Maybe it's a complete fiction, maybe it's a hindsight, can't tell. In these elections, Mart Laar's Patriotic League received a slightly larger number of votes from the Reform Party, and thirdly the predecessors of the current social democrats of the government coalition, which was moderate. But the Centre Party received the highest number of votes. These were the three who formed the government in 1999. There had already been an agreement between them that they would make a joint government. One part of the agreement was that the Prime Minister will be the leader of the party whose party receives the highest number of votes. If a few hundred votes had gone more to the Reform Party and fewer to the Fatherland Union, then Siim Kallas would probably have become Prime Minister, but in this situation Mart Laar became Prime Minister again, for the second time, and Siim Kallas became Minister of Finance of this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U81	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! We have received a fairly comprehensive overview of the Estonian electoral law in recent history and in distant history. Several important issues have been raised. My question is this: what is the difference between Finnish and Estonian electoral laws in relation to the draft law on admission of electoral alliances submitted by us, the Free Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U83	This is a completely relevant issue, because the current Estonian Riigikogu Election Act and the regulation on political parties have a direct link to Finnish regulation. The Finnish regime has remained relatively unchanged since before World War II. I know that when the electoral law and party law were made in its time, it was one of the few laws of other countries (Finnish is generally familiar and the example of Finland has always been decisive in Estonia), which was taken as a measure when Estonia's current organisation was brought to life. But the conclusion is that I think it is one of those cases when following the example of Finland has done Estonia a disservice. It would have been wiser if Estonia had not followed the example of Finland at the time, or another possibility that it would still have followed, but would have done exactly what Finland has done. The situation in Finland is that candidates' lists are presented only by political parties for the election of the Educunna and, just as the joint electoral lists of political parties are not known in Estonia. A very important difference is only how parties are recognised in Finland and how they are achieved through the submission of electoral lists. As we know, we have a very long process ahead of us to become a party, and the most labour-intensive part of this is the meeting of the required number of members. We now have this minimum number of 500, and before that, I think since 1996, if I'm not mistaken, 1,000 members were required. Mart Nutt, then member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has said this to me in the rise of the number 1000, was an important feature of the fact that there are 5,000 in Finnish law. At the time, it has been said that, since the Estonian population is about five times smaller than the Finnish population, it would be reasonable to have five times the number written in our law instead of 5,000, namely 1000. Only the fact that 5,000 members of the party are not required in Finland was quite a mess. I don't know if they gave me... [[A voice from the hall.]] Excuse me? Sorry, we have 500 now. In Finland, Finland also requires that the electoral list be based on a legal entity called a political party, but it is extremely simple and only two people can do so. There are not 5 000 party members in Finland, or even 500, as we have now, enough for two people. But this number of 5000 really exists in Finnish practice. If a group of Finnish citizens wish to submit a list of their candidates for the next Eduskunna elections, they will first form this list and then collect the support signatures of Finnish electoral citizens. I don't know, at the moment there is some kind of electronic form for this, but in its time, Finnish citizens had to fill out such small cardboard cards that I do. After 5,000 support cards were gathered, the candidate list went to the elections. There are other exceptions. If the party currently has its own representatives in Eduskunna, there is no need for 5 000 signatures of support, even if the party had its own representatives in the previous Eduskunna, and in the meantime they did not have one. But when you're out of two Parliaments, you have to start from scratch. In this sense, there is no need for Finland to introduce into the electoral law lists of candidates common to political parties. If such a need were to arise in the political life of Finland, it would be, I would say, the simplest of all. But as long as we do not have the formation of a party as simply as it is in Finland, we would need another solution. So taking and applying Finnish law as a non-technical example in such an ignorant or wrong context, at least as far as I understand Mart Nut's memories, has been the starting point for our current legal, constitutional and practical problem. Maybe that wouldn't be the worst thing about yourself, but we have a bad thing about election law. That's what I've been trying to tell you. Repeating what has been said yesterday: if I finish and the rest of the item has been exhausted, this bill will probably be voted out of the procedure, that is the decision of the government coalition, but that is not the problem, the problem simply goes on to the next Riigikogu. The problem is, we've got a lot of different ways of getting these things together. One thing is that it is difficult to put up electoral lists; the other is that it is extremely difficult to form political parties. I must say that the submission of electoral lists is, in my opinion, the criterion of whether the process is well regulated. The President announced the election a few days ago, and now there's a date when the nominations are stopped. During this period, perhaps a month or less, it should be possible for citizens to organise and submit their own list of candidates. Here's another thing that we have from Res Publica's legacy of our time. This is the overfunding of political parties, which has led to the situation that among the participants in Estonian politics there are two competition leagues, one is well funded too, and the other is underfunded too. I have not been aware of this in recent years, but in the intervening years it was very common practice that political parties made an election campaign dues and paid debts over the coming years from state support. Finally, I recall when Res Publica came in his own time. You see, in the history of our independence and partly in the development of political thought up until now, it has been very important for our great political professor Rein Taagepera, who lives in California for a part of his time in America and lives here for a part of his time. Mr Taagepera is, in my opinion, a good example of the fact that large scientists can be quite naive in practical politics. In that year, before the election of Res Publica, there was such a situation that Rein Taagepera agreed to take up the chairmanship of Res Publica and he was the most prominent candidate who organized Res Publicale's votes. How did they do after that exactly, I don't know, but after Rein Taagepera banged the door and left them, he wrote down his criticism of those of his fellow combatants who were younger members of Res Publica. No one else has put such a sharp criticism. Among other things, Rein Taagepera has written a quite thorough English-language study entitled 'According to Meteor: Res Publica in Estonia 2001-2004'. He started with the fact that immediately after Res Publica had won the election and became the leading government party, he started to deal with the possibility that no other group of persons in Estonia would ever be able to repeat the same upward trajectory. This assessment of Rein Taagepera is, of course, correct in retrospect, because all changes or non-modifications to the law go back to it, as they are so far, in the long run, a rather unwise political party financing scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U84	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U85	Good manager! Good waitress! Your first hypothesis doesn't work. You said the Russian parties or the list got in or didn't get in. In fact, in 1999, the United People's Party received six seats before it was there. But the one who lost was the Segregation Party, and he fell to some seven or eight places in 41 places. The Fatherland and the Centre Party won. Both gained about ten more seats. But in fact, the number of people didn't fall. There were seven lists of people who got in. Still, in whose favor or in whose interest was the maneuver? Although, as I said, the number of lists remained the same and were the winners, as I said, and the losers. It was the Siimann government that made this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U86	I have to start by saying it's possible, yes. I didn't check the books right now. If indeed it was that in the 1999 elections there was still a successful list of Russian parties... Couldn't have been. That list was off limits. So I think I'm more right about this right now. As for these hypotheses, I don't know. These things keep going beyond the newspapers, and they forget the rumors that went on back then. I can quite certainly say that although Mart Siimann's minority government was in power in 1998, Mart Siimann's supporters in the Riigikogu, that is, the part of the KMU that was behind him, did not control the situation. They certainly did not check the situation on the committees. At the time, there was also no custom that legislative changes would usually come as drafts by government, government or ministry. At least in the case of the electoral law, this was never the case before. But there are probably people somewhere who know what was in the minds of the then so-called masters and what policies they wanted to see in the coming years. I think the Reform Party was on the upward trajectory at the time, and the return of Mart Laari's Patriotic Union was also quite unexplained in theory. So there were probably lots of participants. I just pointed out the two hypotheses that I still remember. I've heard them at different times. That doesn't mean these hypotheses don't exist yet. Maybe none of them are true, maybe the real explanation is something I have no idea about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U87	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U88	Good manager! Good waitress, I hope I get a brief answer to my question. I read § 26 (3): 'The name of the electoral alliance of the parties must include the names of the parties forming the electoral union and the word 'election union'. ' And then there is the following line: 'The name of the electoral union of the parties cannot be misleading and the name cannot be used in the name of a party which is not an electoral union or is misleadingly similar to it. 'Are we going to write the names and the back of two parties, I don't know, 'love' or 'Tallinn' or something else third? How can you possibly understand that? If the first sentence had remained, it would be clear that the name of the two parties is plus the 'election union'. But now there's a chance, I understand, to add everything else to it, for example, you can put 'Jurgen' in, we can put 'Jurgen' in there, for example. Definitely, yeah-yeah! Huh? The assumption is that Jürgen would like his name there as an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U89	Okay, I'll try to answer as soon as possible. Since the names of some things must not be misleading, i.e. they must not allow any confusion, there is, in fact, a very general principle in public life, and this is the case in business and also in the spheres of non-profit organisations. If I were writing this draft right now, I probably wouldn't put it in. It has in some ways turned into a "meant-to-understand" issue. But as far as the criticism of § 26 is concerned, see, this § 26 is literally as it was in the Riigikogu Election Act before it was removed from the Riigikogu. So that's the text of your time. At least in the 1995 elections, where those who were nominated as electoral federations, i.e. the joint lists of several political parties, applied in the same way, were somehow dealt with on the basis of this text, as was not the case. But with the texts of the law, everything can be said in very different ways, at least in such areas. I don't want to say it's the only way or the best way. If there is ever a chance in Estonia that such a thing will be restored in the electoral law, then the most appropriate wording will be found for that moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U90	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, It's been 20 years, but I don't like it when we give the wrong signal because we don't remember what happened 20 years ago. At that time there was the list of Estonian United People's Party, he went to the elections under the name of his party, it included people from the Russian Party in Estonia and the third was the people of Tiit Toomsalu Social Democratic Labour Party. And they did get in, although sometimes there was a notion that there was only Tiit Toomsalu and no one else in Parliament, but it was actually the ECRP. You and your colleague Ernitsa had a slight debate, but actually it looked like I just described it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U92	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! I am very pleased that you have made this remark. I'm not an expert. Your political career has been more involved in this, and I believe that your memory is much more accurate on this issue. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U93	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Tiit Terik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U94	Mr President! Good Riigikogu! The Constitutional Committee discussed the topic of the Riigikogu Election Act at the meeting on 19 November. A very thorough presentation, like yesterday and today, was made by Mr Adams, introducing the substance of the draft to the Commission. There were some questions. Helmut Hallemaa was interested in when legislative amendments could enter into force if this draft was approved by the Riigikogu. Mr Adams replied that as soon as possible and in the forthcoming elections, after which the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt that this would be somewhat too fast and perhaps not quite quite realistic. Mr Pevkur asked for clarification on what problem the draft is trying to solve, and Mr Adams replied that political party electoral associations could be very useful in certain situations. In general, the questions remained mainly on the issue of its implementation. The Commission also made decisions, two of which were consensual: it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 4 December and to appoint a rapporteur for the Commission here. With 6 votes in favour, 1 against, it was proposed that the draft be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U95	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Tiit Terik! [[???Hääl saalist: 'Vedas!'???]] I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to reject draft 701 at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, the agenda currently includes the first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act 701. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. Honourable Riigikogu, I put to the vote the proposal to reject the draft 701 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 57 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 6 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Bill 701 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U96	Next on our agenda is the first reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law amending the Law on Income Tax, the Social Tax Act and other laws. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Quiet, please, because Aivar Sõerd, the waitress who initiated the draft of the Riigikogu, is about to arrive. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U97	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of 2016, when the current coalition started its activities, one of the first steps was to push through a comprehensive package of tax changes and one of the important sources of income for this package was to be additional taxation of beer, wine and cider. It was expected to generate significant additional revenue. For example, we read from old papers: EUR 58 million in additional revenue this year and EUR 65 million in additional revenue next year, 2019. This year, 341 million euros of alcohol excise revenue were recorded in the state budget. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U98	People's ambassadors Black and Pevkur, please don't disturb Aivar Sõerdi! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U99	All right, let's go. The total increase in excise duty on beer was 86% in February and July 2017. It was enough for large-scale border trade to take place in three or four months. From February 2018, the increases in the excise duty on strong and lean alcohol previously regularised were replaced by slightly smaller increases in excise duty. However, the cosmetic change did not change anything and border trade continued to rise. In the Committee on Finance, we asked the Ministry of Finance to draw up an impact analysis of these tax changes. This had to be considered and we could read that sales of beer and cider could be reduced by 10% in the second half of 2017, of which 6% had to be the impact of border trade and 4% had to have an impact on consumption. In March 2018, a study by the Institute of Economics revealed how bad things had really turned out. It turned out that the share of people who bought alcohol from Latvia had increased to 35%, the volume of purchases and stocks in people's homes had increased. The continued increase in the share of southern border purchases was expected. The wide-ranging impact of border trade on the Estonian economy as a whole was also apparent. Trade on the southern border had put great pressure on the domestic beverage industry and local trade. In 2017, 40 small shops were closed. Trade on the northern border had a significant impact on the number of tourists visiting Estonia. In the spring 2018 forecast, the Ministry of Finance estimated the share of border trade at 5.3% in 2016 but at 15.7% in 2017 and around 25% in 2018. The Ministry of Finance itself acknowledged the growth of the shadow economy, as large differences in Latvian and Estonian prices had created incentives to bring excise goods to the country for resale as well. In this year's autumn forecast, the Ministry of Finance stated that the share of border trade in Estonian purchases has continued to increase to 27%. In June of this year, the Conjuncture Institute published the study 'Alcoholic Market, Consumption and Population Estimates of the State's Alcohol Policy. The study showed that the long-term trend in alcohol consumption turned to an increase last year. The study pointed out that the main reason for stopping the downward trend in consumption was that Latvia can buy cheap alcohol and large quantities are brought together. In the overview of the use and disposal of state assets by the National Audit Office 2017. This year, 105 million euros less will be collected in alcohol excise duty and 179 million euros less in excise duty in total compared to what was planned for the state budget. By adding VAT here, we will receive EUR 216 million. In mid-October, the taxpayers' association published an analysis prepared by KPMG, which concludes that border trade can be reversed, together with a positive impact of EUR 100 million on Estonia's budget revenue by lowering excise duties on beer and spirits in 2020. According to the study, retail chains would also be willing to apply a lower mark-up if the excise duty rate would allow for a reversal of border trade. According to this study, the most popular type of alcohol purchased at the border is beer, which was found at 79% at the border in the shopping basket, followed by vodka and other spirits bought by 45% of alcohol buyers. Marje Josing, the head of the Conjuncture Institute, has said that excise policy was the best, but instead people were pushed across the border where alcohol is essentially sold at the price of secret alcohol. The analysts estimate that the ceiling for the border trade is not yet in place. During the summer, Emor's interviewers conducted a survey at border liquor stores in Latvia. The survey showed that 41% of Estonians buy alcohol from Latvia. Furthermore, it became clear that among a large number of people this shopping has become a special form of the protest movement. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft is to reduce the excise duty rates on alcohol to the level of February 2017. The aim of reducing excise duties on alcohol is to stop alcohol tourism in Latvia, thereby increasing Estonia's budget revenues. The draft also takes into account the arguments of public health. Border trade was caused by increased excise duties and resulting differences in excise rates from Latvia. Like the increase in excise duty caused by border trade, it is also possible to discourage border trade by cutting excise duty. Estonia has nothing to gain from border trade. In the event of a delay in resolving the problem, it will later be much more difficult to tackle border trade. Border trade can be reversed, the negative effects of this phenomenon can be countered and the revenue returned to Estonia, taking into account the arguments of public health. Unfortunately, the current government has accepted border trade and has taken the view that border trade can no longer be abolished. The Reform Party is confident that it will be possible to reverse border trade. Finally. The new study on border trade commissioned by the Ministry of Finance with expensive public procurement and due to be completed by spring cannot in any way produce a different result than the study already carried out by the taxpayers' association and the KPMG study. KPMG's study makes it clear that border trade will fall if the rates of excise duty are lowered. The difference between Latvian excise duties has led to border trade and will be reduced once this gap is reduced to an optimal level. Thank you for your attention. I am ready to answer the questions and, of course, please support this bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U100	A round of questions will be opened in Taavi's garment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! A friend of mine recently asked in public who the devil raised beer excise at the same time 70%. This has remained unanswered so far, for those who raised it have not dared to say under their name that they did, and to say whether they did the right thing or made a big mistake. Well, Aivar, then you tell me exactly when this 70% increase took place and what distinguishes it from previous practices that all previous governments have had.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U102	Yes, thank you! That's a good question. The practice so far has been that, first of all, excise rates have been monitored in neighbouring countries, and first and foremost, we have a difference between Latvian rates. In general, it is also normal practice in other countries to increase excise rates in line with the rise in the cost of living, in line with the rate of inflation. In general, this has been followed. The difference or, let's say, the difference arose in the decisions made by the current coalition at the end of 2016, no one else. The sharp increase in lean alcohol excise duty in mid-2017 triggered extensive border trade. This burst occurred in three or four months. Border trade did not yet reach the ceiling in 2017, and this increase continued this year. Even the official forecast of the Ministry of Finance does not confirm the decline in border trade. The Minister of Finance has said that he, too, does not understand why they increased these excise duties. But the Minister of Finance has basically veto rights in the government on this issue. According to the Minister of Finance, as one news report said, the government proposed that excise duties should be reduced. But as I said, the current government, the current coalition, has accepted border trade, he has given up rejecting it. If nothing is done, this problem will not solve itself. Hundreds of millions of euros will be lost next year, and this problem can be solved for a very long time if we do not act decisively today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U103	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Aivar Sõerd! Doctors know simple wisdom: When blood flows out of the body, the wound must be closed and not wait. If tax money runs out of the state's system, shouldn't we learn medical lessons? Have you, Aivar, understood why no experts, critics or just a peasant's austerity and self-interest have been heard in designing excise policy lately?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U105	Thank you for that question. Now, in the debate on the same bill that we discussed here just before this draft excise duty cut, and, in fact, yesterday in this Chamber, the idea was that if there was a disease, there would be a need for immediate treatment. If treatment is delayed, pathologies will develop and it will be very difficult to intervene effectively later. The same is true of this excise problem. This summer, when the Conjuncture Institute's study of alcohol was published, it showed a very undesirable trend: the downward trend in alcohol consumption in previous years had turned to an increase. This increase was not yet great, but the trend change this study showed. It is extremely regrettable, precisely this change in the consumption trend, along with the fact that we are simply giving up excise revenue. This shows that excise policy has failed completely. And what public health arguments we are talking about when alcohol can now be brought from the border at the basically secret price of alcohol, as Marje Josing said. In fact, looking at Latvia's prices, which are even lower than we had before these increases in excise duty, given the quantities and market share, it can be said that for a large number of people alcohol has become even cheaper than before the increase in excise duty. Hence the very negative impact on public health.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U106	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U107	Thank you. Honourable performer! Despite the clear desire of the coalition to increase excise duty for financial reasons, they have still been afishing that it has been done in the interests of human health, in the interests of reducing alcohol consumption. Now we have border trade, alcohol consumption is on the rise and we want to turn it back. Have you discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs what health effects or the effects of consumption could be when this process is being rewinded?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U108	Unfortunately, we did not get this far in the Committee on Monetary Affairs with our discussions, although we could have. In fact, the Committee on Monetary Affairs should discuss this issue with the Committee on Social Affairs, because it really comes out of a narrow fiscal issue. But what we see today is definitely not in line with public health objectives. When large quantities of cheap alcohol are brought together, it is tempting to consume more. Secondly, Latvia's prices are cheaper than the prices we had even before the big increase in excise duty last year. This research by the Institute of Conjuncture on alcohol has shown that the trend in long-term decline in consumption, which has lasted for years, has turned to a slight increase. It's a very dangerous sign, and it shows that we're on a very wrong path.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U109	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! The sinker also grabs the straw. It seems to me forcefully that today's government coalition is trying to get caught in the sleeve of the previous Prime Minister, Taavi Kõivas, trying to incriminate him somehow, things that they are really responsible for. I would like you to repeat once again what the share of border trade was in 2016 and what it is, according to the recent assessment by the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, do you remember whether, in 2016, more excise duties on alcohol were received than was planned in the budget, or whether there was a serious deficit?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U111	Thank you. I can go over these numbers, I have them in my head. In 2016, the volume of border trade was 6%. The Ministry of Finance's latest official forecast, the autumn forecast, which came on 15 September, said it had grown to 27%. 27%! Next year, the Ministry of Finance predicts that there will be no coming down from this 27%. However, in 2016 excise duties on alcohol were scheduled to reach EUR 251 million. We compare this year's situation when, after all these massive increases in excise duty, after the budget of EUR 341 million was planned, it was adjusted four times downwards. Four times! We have now come to the point that the Ministry of Finance is forced to acknowledge that yes, more than EUR 235 million will not be received this year. This is less than in 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U112	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! Wasn't there an option under consideration to bring excise duties to a level comparable to Latvia or even to bring them down? Does the current draft you have initiated really allow the roadways, as we say, to grow grass and not create a situation in which excise duties will be reduced simply because of a reduction in tax, but the road to Latvia continues?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U114	Thank you. Our draft was prepared and handed over to the Riigikogu in September, several months ago. He is well aged for a long time in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, in the meantime, he has not flowed a lot of water into the sea, but today's knowledge says with even greater certainty that we are on the right track to bring it down. But when it comes to optimal rates, we weren't so brave to come down from Latvia. The point is that at the moment we wrote this draft, the information was that Latvia, with small steps such as this, which, although not very effective, is still raising its rates in 2019 and 2020 with small steps. By the way, the later KPMG survey was a very solid study, 500 shoppers were interviewed and a large number of chains of commerce were said to disappear when the price of the beer case (as regards alcohol) differs from the price of Latvia less than EUR 2 and the price of one-half litre strong alcohol less than EUR 1. If you look at this study, you will see that KPMG offers optimal rates of excise duty. At least on beer and vodka they coincide quite with those rates, which are also in our draft, there is no big difference. As far as Latvia is concerned, the formation of a government is still ongoing and there is much confusion in politics. But I would not rule out Latvian politicians, or the Latvian Ministry of Finance or the government, if it is put together, seeing that if Lithuania does not raise the rates, they have frozen them, and if Estonia has frozen its rates, then they can also give up the small increases previously planned. So if we continue to deal with this draft, between the first reading and the second reading, we may still be able to analyse what these optimal rates are supposed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U115	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U116	Thank you. Can you give us the figures that are currently estimated at the level of border trade compared to 2015/2016? In a year? Do you have those numbers on hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U117	According to official data from the Ministry of Finance, border trade accounts for 27% of the market. Producers estimate this even higher: 30% for strong alcohol and 40% for beer. I guess the truth's somewhere between you and me. But in 2016, according to the Ministry of Finance, this volume was 6%, so there is still a mountain difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U118	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U119	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The Cultural Endowment Act states that 3% of the excise duty received by the state budget, taking into account repayments, will be transferred to the Cultural Endowment. In view of the massive exodus of excise money to Latvia, we should ask why we once again forget our own cultural sphere. The problem is that there is no pay for choir leaders and dance leaders, it is not possible to offer them social guarantees and our singing and dance festivals are in danger. What is your attitude to the musician, as well as how to view the fact that the money for cultural support flows completely to Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U120	Yeah, thanks, that's a good question! In preparing this draft, I looked at the website of Cultural Capital, where their budget this year is up. It clearly states that the cultural capital has put together its budget this year on the basis of the forecast for the collection of alcohol excise duties from the Ministry of Finance, as it was written into the state budget at EUR 341 million. In the meantime, the Ministry of Finance has revised this forecast four times downwards and the actual receipts are EUR 235 million. It can be calculated how many percent of the cultural capital gets less money compared to how much they wrote into their budgets. I also asked Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare, how the situation is. The minister said it wasn't too bad, we'll be fine. But it is clear that many of the projects that were previously planned and many of the measures must inevitably be cut. The funding that was taken into account can no longer be taken into account in today's situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U121	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U122	Thank you. Good waitress! Indeed, a strange problem, in some ways, is even absurd that the government does not want to correct this mistake. What's going on in South Estonia is pretty scary. I was also in Latvia on the weekend: border shops are full of Estonians, there are also Finns. I would like to ask you once again whether we are able to make a financial assessment of the loss that hits us in Northern Estonia, where the number of Finnish tourists is falling, because they are no longer satisfied with the price level here, there is less reason to come here. It involves a very wide range of companies: hotels, restaurants, barbershops, whatever. We are likely to see a negative trend similar to that of the tsunami that has already passed through South Estonia in the North Estonian economy. But can you tell me the numbers that this means for the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U123	Thank you for that question. I haven't had a chance to go to Valka or Ainaži in the last few weeks, but I went there in the summer. I helped collect donations for the Cancer Treatment Fund, and for several hours, when I collected donations, I also saw what was happening in those stores. These stores are actually wholesale warehouses. Were there Estonians now overwhelmingly there, but perhaps a third to even half could have been Finns. Came in with buses, and these shopping carts still gave a push: one man pulled out of the way, and two men pushed in. The buses and the vans were still booby-trapped when they got out of there. Looking at the reports that are now being shown there, I can say that the situation is the same. But in figures, this means that the number of Finnish tourists is clearly declining: 5% of Finnish tourists decreased last year. If all the planned excise revenue that was entered in the budget were to be broken down this year and to look at what is actually coming, then together with VAT, the difference is 216 million euros. These are official records. Everyone can look at them. I do not have precise figures, but it is estimated that about half and a half: half comes due to a reduction in border trade at the northern border and half because there is extensive border trade at the southern border. If added in 2017, this amount will already be more than EUR 330 million. For the next year, we can count on the impact of border trade at the southern border and on the budgetary impact of the reduction in border trade at the northern border in roughly the same order of magnitude if we do not intervene decisively. The current knowledge is that this place or instrument of intervention can only be a reduction in excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U124	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U125	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, I must say that excise duty on alcohol has no impact on my family's budget. On the other hand, however, I must say that what has been done over the years with the rise in excise duty has not been right. But, Aivar, you've been Minister of Finance yourself. I only have one question all the time. If we look at the alcoholic strength per % vol/hl, why do the different types of alcohol have such a different excise number? For years, this excise duty was put on strong alcohol, in times of different governments, right, now the lower excise duty on alcohol has been raised quite strongly, which has led to a four-line road towards Valga instead of one forest trail. Why can't alcohol have an equal excise duty, depending on the alcohol content?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U126	Thank you. First of all, it's because we don't live on a desert island. In particular, we must take this into account when designing excise policy. Excise goods are goods that can be bought in a neighbouring country and brought into the country. As far as I am concerned, there is no country in the European Union where the type of product, the type of alcohol involved, is not taken into account when taxing alcohol or alcohol by volume. We have now reached the absolute top of the European Union with beer excise duty. There are only four countries ahead of us: Great Britain, Finland, Sweden and Ireland. Compared to the purchasing power of people in these countries, there is a contradiction here. Secondly, the difference in production costs. Most of the price of vodka is excise, but for example, the production process of beer is slightly different, there is also more labour costs, there are additives that are added. Production processes vary. This is also the case in other countries that these rates are not the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U127	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have asked why we are dealing with excise policy, especially with regard to alcohol, in such a simplified way. I was born in Valga, and I go there very often. I've been monitoring for decades how this price has fluctuated. This price was different long before the beginning of the 2016 tides and, unfortunately, for us. But I'm going to ask you about culture because of the question I've asked you before. I'm a musician myself, a brass player, a lot of singing parties. Is it even right and ethical that we are so closely linking the funding of culture to drinking in this circle of questions? Rather, it should be the opposite that culture should take us away from drinking alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U129	Thank you. First of all, I will respond to the first comment on the difference in prices between Estonia and Latvia. I looked at it a little bit. One argument that I have heard and that has sounded is that our purchasing power is different from that of the Latvians, and that is where the justification for the tax difference comes from. But, you see, the thing is that since 2013, the purchasing power of the people of Estonia and Latvia, as well as the wage gap, has remained at 30%; it has not changed. This difference was 30% in 2013 and also 30% in 2018. So the emergence or proliferation of border trade from last year cannot in any way be justified by the fact that the pay gap compared to Latvia has started to become very large. However, as far as the mechanism for financing culture is concerned, this can, of course, be discussed. It is directly the subject of this draft and the object is not, but this tradition we have had for a very long time, since the beginning of time. Whether it's ethical is hard to say, but he's worked. Cultural capital is not the only place where the cultural sector receives money. There are also measures of the Ministry of Culture that are funded directly from the state budget, even the EAS has measures in support of culture, and EU funds can be applied for, including support and sponsors from municipalities. So cultural capital is not the only place to fund culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U130	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We are in this Chamber today with this question because if you raise a certain tax at the same time to an unreasonable high level, then the result is to touch the hand. The worst part of this is that we have broken one trend, alcohol consumption has fallen earlier, but now it has stopped or started to rise quietly. The problem is that taxes go to Latvia, but health problems remain in Estonia, and the Estonian taxpayer basically has to pay for all of them. Can you tell me whether the government, which, in such good financial years, should channel money into structural reforms and raise or leave more money in the country, is not ready to actually reduce excise duties within this budget, even though they themselves have very much promised it? A good colleague asked about Finnish tourists. Will the impact on hotel industry in general be more catastrophic in terms of revenue than initially predicted?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U132	Thank you for that question. Yes, these, say, tourist accommodations are very important, not those who come here one day and fly back, but those who stay here longer are important. If they stop longer, they consume more services, not just accommodation services, they buy goods, not only excise goods, but also other goods, and there is a huge number of jobs behind them. Tourism, of course, is not a very high added value, but it still means exports and is an important industry for us. If Finnish tourists disappear or go to Latvia, then there will still be huge impacts on our economy as well. But when it comes to health, we take the budget of the sickness fund. I think 200 million was the amount that could get rid of the treatment queues. Let's look at this year, sum up all the excise duties we're missing, put on the VAT, then we'll get 200 million or over 200 million, 216 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U133	Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U134	Thank you. Helmut Hallemaa claimed that he was looking at this thing somehow very complicated and essentially, unlike you. The main point is that it used to be. Unfortunately, I've had to get caught up in Järva Radio several times, saying that he used to be. Please make him red and wooden so that next Friday we don't get the same situation again. How much has border trade increased during this government, and how much excise duty has been raised during this government? It's enough beer, but you can talk about vodka.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U135	I would like to remind you, or I would like to repeat, that in 2015 there was border trade, and this is the official data of the Ministry of Finance, which is 1 to 2%, and in 2016 5 to 6%, and today we have reached 27%. This is the official number of the Ministry of Finance, the number of producers is slightly different, they estimate this volume to 30 to 40%. I guess the truth's somewhere between you and me. It is clear that when the excise duty on lean alcohol increased by 87% in 2017 (February + July), it ran out of an increase in 2018, which was brought down a little bit, it was enough to trigger extensive border trade. There is no other way to discourage border trade than to take back these same increases in excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U136	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Let's review these facts and estimates in a comprehensive manner. There is no dispute about the fact that 104%, or more than twice, of excise duty on beer has risen during the current government. No one will argue with that. Secondly, slightly different estimates of the exact size of border trade, but it is generally understood that it is between a quarter and a third, so there is a common understanding of the principle. There is no common understanding that if excise duties were to be reduced, border trade would be reduced or not. The Conjuncture Institute, which is independent on this issue, says that it is decreasing, and the Ministry of Finance, which, as the author of all the forecasts so far, has not been too good on this issue, says that it is not. Which one of you would believe in this right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U138	Thank you. I brought along an official press release from the Ministry of Finance published a little over a year ago in October. What do they say? 'Ministry of Finance: no fewer than 80 million fewer than expected will receive alcohol duty. ' The Ministry of Finance estimates that it will not be received in the following year (2018. A. S.) alcohol excise duties of EUR 80 million less than expected to be paid to the state budget and still forecast to be EUR 341 million alcohol excise duties in the state budget. ' A year ago, they were officially chopping up, in an official ministry press release, that you're talking about, which 80 million less than 341 million will be collected. But what's today's knowledge? Four times it's been adjusted downwards, as the dog's tail is chopping, and we've reached 235 million. This does not create confidence in the assessments made by the Ministry of Finance. Not only the Conjuncture Institute, but KPMG also carried out a proper study. It was solid, there were over 500 interviewed, interviewed directly at the border. The managers of retail companies and sales managers were also asked whether retail companies would be prepared to lower the mark-up if this would lead to the disappearance of border trade. Everyone agreed and was prepared to lower the mark-up or to make a discount of 5%. Not only research carried out by the Institute of Economics, but also a very solid study commissioned by the taxpayers' association and carried out by KPMG made it very clear that the problem of border trade can be solved, can be countered by lowering excise duties to an optimal level. The rates proposed by them are quite close to those which are also in our draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U139	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm sorry if this question seems a little light, but let's think about the future and the kids. I heard that the children were given the task of being in school, that if 340 million have gone to Latvia and an ambulance costs 80,000, then how many ambulances will Estonia now not buy because of this? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U140	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U141	It's a bit arbitrary, but let's take an example. It may even describe this situation better. We know that excise duties were planned in this year's budget, and today it is known that compared to what was planned in the budget, putting VAT on it, there will be 216 million fewer. I admit that there is an impact both on border trade at the southern border and on the reduction in border trade at the northern border, but 216 million have lost revenue. This is the money that was planned for the budget. There were expenses planned for this money, including the cost of an ambulance. 200 million is the order of magnitude so that the health insurance fund can lose the waiting lists. That's a very large amount of money, that's five ERMs, or that could be done with a long four-way section. It should also be taken into account that there is very little money in the budget that can be reallocated, because most of the expenditure has already been established by law. So that's a lot of money we're losing. We can't just watch this year. Let us summarise 2017, 2018 and 2019: if we do not intervene by cutting excise duties, we will still receive an amount that can reach 500 million in three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U142	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U143	Thank you, dear waitress. You're always talking about border trade here, and you're stuck with alcohol. But believe me, border trade is not just vodka and beer, border trade is something else too. I live in South Estonia and also go to Latvia. People buy different things, they look at new flavors. As long as there are different products, border trade will also remain. Alcohol can also lead to non - large amounts of alcohol. You mentioned that you visited these shops yourself, where cars are loaded completely with alcohol, there are buses, trucks, aftercars, etc. You've also been director of the Tax and Customs Board. My question to you is, is the Tax and Customs Board doing a good job on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U144	Thank you. That's a good question. The Finance Committee organised a round table, there were representatives of small shops, there were representatives of the Ministry of Finance and also invited the Tax and Customs Board. When it comes to the tax administration being able to control more actively, the representative of the Tax and Customs Board said that they are not going to improve their controls, because this is a completely pointless waste of resources, random checks they are doing. Tax officials are certainly good, but these amounts are quite large (I do not currently have these numbers available here) how much can be brought from another Member State of the European Union. (Outside the European Union, yes, you can bring several times smaller quantities.) These amounts are very high, and this control is not helping anything. If the question was that other goods are being bought, then of course they are. This makes the situation even worse, as one of the main drivers of border trade is, above all, cheaper excise goods, not only alcohol, but also cigarettes and fuel, but also, of course, other goods, construction materials and industrial goods are purchased and services are consumed. You can go only for building materials, but then you can take alcohol with you. This is demonstrated by these same studies. Why do we have to accept the situation where tax revenues go to Latvia, but health damage and also packaging are all left in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U145	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U146	Thank you. I like to do a head count, too. My question is as follows. If one commodity costs EUR 10 and the other EUR 1, the difference between these two goods is EUR 9. Now, if both taxes are increased by 5%, one will cost 10.50 and the other by 1.05 and the difference will be 9.45. Let's say it was a one-year tax change. But if this is done for tens of years in a row and these two products are competitors on the market, how does it affect their position on the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U147	Yeah, well, the price of 10 euros goes away, and that difference gets even bigger. But what you're trying to prove is that I can answer the next question when the questioner reveals what he was trying to prove.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U148	There are two questions. Kristen Michal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U149	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, I'll help you. The 340 million I referred to earlier is the difference between the two-year forecast and the actual receipts of excise duties on alcohol, fuel and tobacco. Mathematics gives a simple answer that 4250 ambulances could have been bought with the money we sent to Latvia. It's not really so little, almost all the doctors would have gotten themselves a car. That's it. You have already mentioned that with beer we have reached the top 5 or five countries in Europe where beer is the highest taxed. According to a book by the Institute of Economics, if Britain leaves now, we will also make it to the top five with strong alcohol. What do you expect if this government, on some strange occasion, should continue to work, how many years will we reach the three countries where alcohol is most heavily taxed?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U150	That's a good question. Prediction is a 'thankful' action, but I will not rule out, of course, that we will be among these countries. But today it can be predicted that if we do not intervene and do nothing to discourage border trade, this problem will not solve itself. There is no point in hoping that Latvia might increase its excise duty rates at a faster pace and if we do not increase the difference then the gap will get smaller. There is no need to count on this, because the differences are large enough now, and the rise in the Latvian excise duty is at such a slow pace that these differences will not disappear in the coming years, and if we do not take decisive steps, we will have to accept border trade for many more next years.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U151	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U152	Good waitress! I will first reassure Jürgen Ligi, colleague, that I am not on Kuma Radio this Friday, I am near the southern border. But I'm going to ask you about your report on the forecasts that have run through quite a few times. I share your view that the projections have been relatively poor on the Ministry side. What are these reasons is a matter of nature. But how can we still appreciate that we are missing something that we really don't have? A prognosis is a presumption or a conjecture. How are we going to miss it anyway? That's another thing. Did the fact that the year 2017 was special, there was no stockpiling, there was a stockpiling in 2016 and 2018, but from that year these things were out, and then he was said to be more or less of the same order of magnitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U153	No, there's nothing complicated here. First of all, in 2017, an alcohol duty of 220 million euros was collected, stocks and all, 220 million in total, that is a fact. In 2016, 251 million were received, and there are also all the reserves inside. By 2018, EUR 341 million were planned. There's nothing to argue or disprove, it's an official number, it's entered into the budget. Yeah, there was a hoarding effect, too, but that's a fact, this number was written into the budget, it's not some abstract thing. It can't be a number that means nothing. I mean, yeah. This was a formal forecast, it was entered into the budget and expenditure was also planned for EUR 341 million. Okay. But today we know that EUR 235 million will be received, a little here and there, and it will remain, as the Ministry of Finance's autumn forecast said, that only in the case of alcohol duty we are talking about more than 100 million. But let's put in more fuel excises, which is less, we'll put in more tobacco excises, which is less, and we'll put in more VAT, and we'll get 216 million. I was just looking at those charts. While Estonia strongly increased excise duty, the trend towards alcohol excise duty went down in 2017 and 2018; this is also the case in 2019. Latvia raises its excise duty rates at a very quiet, modest pace of 10 to 15%, but the arrow to collect these excise revenue goes straight up. Lithuania, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U154	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U155	Thank you. Good waitress! I was here in deep thoughts about the effects of high alcohol excises, and so I didn't notice, so maybe the answer I want to know has already sounded here. But let me ask you this. As a fruity person, I see every day how shopping in Latvia affects the purchase of goods, and very often other groups of goods are bought there, in addition to alcohol and other excise goods. I therefore ask whether it is known what amount is added to the losses caused by the border trade in excise goods due to the border trade in other types of goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U156	Yes, that is a very correct point, and it is also an appropriate subject to be addressed. Latvia not only follows cheaper excise goods, many other goods are also of interest to Estonian consumers there. This means that if excise goods do not receive excise duty, when purchasing construction material, VAT will simply go to the Latvian State. In any case, the damage is very serious. The excise number alone is known, over 200 million. But how much VAT is not collected on other goods maybe we can ask when the Ministry of Finance prepares this big, scary analysis for EUR 100000 in March. However, this analysis by the Ministry of Finance cannot refute what the Conjuncture Institute has told us and what has been confirmed by KPMG's study that there is no other way to overcome border trade than by lowering excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U157	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have not been following the whole debate here today, but I came to the Chamber at exactly the moment my colleague, Kristen Michal, asked. He had made a quick calculation that if the difference between the forecast and the actual excise charge, these hundreds of millions, were to be divided into ambulances, then this money would really buy 4250 ambulances. At the end of the year, we have a tradition of organising a Christmas Tunnel show, for example, where money may be collected from all Estonian people to buy a few single ambulances. In fact, it is a huge amount of money and it is completely inconceivable that it is just watching money flow out of Estonia. Maybe as a shipping specialist, you could do a head-to-head calculation. How many Tallink ships would it take, for example, to fit all those 4250 ambulances? It's just so those people who do politics can understand which numbers we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U159	Thank you for that question. No, these comparisons need to be made so that the scale of the problem can be better achieved. But of course, Tallink's most modern ships cost more than 400 million euros, so there are a little bit of crisper prices. But these comparisons are relevant. Why is the coalition not willing to do anything now, but watching hundreds of millions go away with such dull peace? The point is that the economy is just having a good time and that because the economy is having a good time, other tax revenues are so savage that they cover this excise problem. The Ministry of Finance hopes to receive 8.5% more VAT next year than this year, 7.5% more social tax. But clearly, such good times don't last forever. In a situation where the Treasury is practically overcoming tax revenues, a reduction in the national reserves is foreseen (which we can read in the explanatory memorandum for next year's state budget; it is written in black and white). In any case, we will act irresponsiblely if we continue in this way and do not intervene decisively to discourage border trade.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U160	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U161	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a question of history, a question of the last century. In 1989, in Estonia, the Federal Republic of Estonia, Aligoté wine 2 rubles 30 kopika, Tbilisi wine paid 70 kopikas at the same time. In Valga, Estonia, the republic, paid extra vodka 4.12, Latvia Valkas paid exactly the same extra vodka 3.62. Can you explain or explain where the border trade was back then?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U162	This reminiscing of Soviet prices is not going to help us much this day. I remember Soviet time very clearly. Of course, Estonians went to Latvia and went to Latvia and went to Latvia and went to the more distant republics of the Union. This cross-border trade is always the case, but the question is how much it is going on. Let's not go back to the last century. In 2016, the volume of border trade was 5 to 6%, currently a third or more.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U163	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U164	Thank you. In fact, it is quite symptomatic that when the large tax hole that the sitting government has created is being discussed here in the Riigikogu Hall, the coalition has largely left the hall. We do not see Sven Sester, for example, who otherwise commends us for getting out from behind the hill, finally talking about how this government is actually planning to patch up the hole that has been created by the unpaid excise duty. As Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control and member of the long-term Monetary Commission and Minister of Finance, you may be able to give some examples where today's sitting, stagnant, backward-moving government has taken some steps to alleviate this tax pit. I can't remember.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U165	Yeah, there's a few steps. Yesterday, Minister Reinsalu was here. He was asked to name the most flagrant draft, which had not had a plan of development and which had done the most damage. Minister, the minister of the current government replied that he felt that, when it comes to damage or, in fact, the impact on our people's consumption behaviour and tax policy, it was certainly a change in excise duties on alcohol. Okay. Tõniste, Minister of Finance, said to the BNS on 27 September: "Although I proposed to lower excise duties, the government decided otherwise. ' He is the Minister of Finance who should have veto rights in this matter. Again, Minister Reinsalu has said that the reduction of alcohol duty was canceled because of the mixes, they were comfortable to say no. I read the news that Dmitri Egorov, a high-ranking official of the Ministry of Finance, a deputy secretary-general even on taxes, is opening behind the scenes of excise duty: 'The issue of excise duty was not dropped because politicians did not agree to go for 30 million euros. " So this subject has been dealt with, but the result is round zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U166	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U167	Thank you. I wasn't gonna ask you, but I just wanted to ask you as the son of a federal merchant. First, I want to correct the mistake. Mr. Sults has confused two things here. Both numbers were correct, but the capital vodka cost 4.12 and regular vodka 3.62. Can't compare incomparables. But now I'm also asking you to make sure that this is going to happen. I also have a simple mathematical task for a respected waitress. The city of Viljandi has 90 kilometres of streets, and the cost of one kilometre of overhaul is approximately 1 million euros. How many streets in the city of Viljandi could have been repaired with the damage caused by excise trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U168	Thank you. You have 90 kilometres of streets, and the price of one kilometre is 1 million euros. We could fix two cities, or even three cities. So it's impressive.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U169	It would require new cities already. It would be nice if Viljandi were a little closer to Tallinn. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I heard from your answers the words of the High Officer of the Ministry of Finance that 30 million would have needed to change something structurally with excise duties. This 30 million is more or less the amount of money that the government decided to channel into the roofing money, and it is not about those who can, but about those who are missing and who did not have the opportunity to compete transparently. Is that the government's policy that first he takes money away from the local governments and then makes a gift like Santa Claus, goes to the door of every particular house and says that I brought you the money? With such a policy, how far could the Republic of Estonia as a whole reach? The best example, in my opinion, is the financing of local roads, which has actually decreased during this government, which is a totally embarrassing story.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U171	Yeah, that's a good question. Thank you. On the one hand, gifts are given in the form of a rooftop money, then 86% of people had to win the income tax, as the Prime Minister has told us, even though the official data completely refutes this Prime Minister's claim. All these major tax reliefs, which were supposed to help low wagers, will be withdrawn several times and not at the prices of these excise goods, we will leave these excise goods, but let us see, for example, that gas excise duties have increased the prices of district heating and goods. These little gifts have been withdrawn multiple times. That is a very correct question. You have to talk about things the way they really are, not listen to what the government tells us in its propaganda channels.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U172	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Enn Meri, member of the Monetary Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 19 November. Heidi Vessel, Chief Specialist of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and the Government Budget Analyst of the Fiscal Policy Department, Kadri Klaos, participated. The initiator's representative, Aivar Sõerd, presented the purpose and content of the draft. I bring out of the ensuing debate the most important. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the Government of the Republic did not support the draft. According to him, lowering excise duty rates to the level of February 2017 would not solve the problem of border trade; the difference in excise duty rates would also be maintained. Commercial mark-ups are also significantly higher in Estonia, which means that the price difference will be maintained, but we will collect less excise duty. Dmitri Dmitriev asked the Commission to comment on the approach made by the Association of Alcohol Producers and Landowners to the effect that the reduction of the excise duty on beer does not reduce border trade. Jürgen Ligi expressed the view that this was a competition between the sellers of strong alcohol and lean alcohol. The producers of strong alcohol would also like to reduce excise duties, the interest of hard alcohol producers would be that beer would not be available. Aivar Sõerd pointed out that the forecast indicated that the volume of border trade would not decrease and asked whether a situation of a quarter of the internal market would be accepted. A representative of the Ministry replied that border trade was starting to decline, but not sharply. An example was provided of Finnish practice, where Estonia's low-cost alcohol tax rates were lowered, but as a result consumption increased significantly, border trade did not decrease and finally Finland's excise duties started to increase. A question was asked about the excise duty analysis ordered by the Ministry of Finance. It was replied that the analysis, which gives an overview of the economic impact of the increase in alcohol and fuel excise duties in recent years, would be completed by the end of February 2019. The following decisions were taken: The Commission's proposal is to reject the draft. There were 5 members of the Commission in favour of the proposal, namely Dmitri Dmitriev, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Priit Sibul and Tanel Talve. Three members of the Commission opposed, namely Aivar Sõerd, Jürgen Ligi and Enn Meri. There were no abstentions. It was also decided that, should the first reading of the draft be completed, the Commission's proposal to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 18 December 2018. This decision was taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U174	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No questions for you. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I mean, it's been said and written before, but it's more shocking when ears and eyes are closed. Today it is still said that there are other goods in the border trade. That's what we're talking about! Border trade is the devil, if you go after one of the goods, you'll buy other things too. It's like people haven't listened to the debate at all. The second argument is that there has been a history of border trade. They say that listen to what you're saying here, it's been before. That is the point, that it has multiplied, and everything depends on the number of border trades, when it will eat other trades and when it will be useful. Write yourself down, coalition, we have more drinking this year than we had in 2016, but the excise duty will be less. That's all that matters right now. If we convert it into economic turnover, it is all the more tragic because trade and producers are getting hit very hard. We now have a shortage of labour, but at one point we are going to talk more about the jobs that have been lost as a result. Anyway, you've ruined a lot of lives, made a lot of people drink more and left no money in the budget. We have looked closely at what the private sector and the state are saying. They've started to talk more and more like it. In this sense, I am bold to say that I am talking now about a private-sector assessment based mainly on the numbers of the Institute of Economics and the audit firms, but they have become very close, so I do not think, by referring to the sources, that I am much wrong. First, the northern border. Someone who reads newspapers knows that a Finnish tourist has disappeared. There is a clear message in the Finnish press on a regular basis: there is no point in going to Estonia; Estonia is a pointlessly expensive country. One such indicator product, which still connects very much with others because it concerns catering and also border trade, is inevitably alcohol. Traditionally, it's been beer. According to the private sector, the turnover at the northern border has decreased by almost 50%. If any 'confidence of conscience' sots here say that we will not be drinking Finns anymore, think that the Finnish market represented 5% of the Estonian border trade at the peak, and now it is almost half the size of the Finnish market. So we are not getting drunk here, we are losing a lot of tourism and trade revenues and Estonia's reputation. The Ministry of Finance has said that, despite this draft, differences in excise duty and price differences would be maintained. Of course you would. The question is, how big would they be? Here too, the private sector has made an assessment. He has said, for example, that it would be enough to have a one-euro spread so that there would no longer be the point of following alcohol at the southern border, that a two-euro difference would be sufficient for a beer case, and that would be completely achievable. There is also a strong economic interest in bringing the margin down in the ordinary course of trade if it can be seen to have an impact on the model of border trade with very high turnover at very low costs, allowing very low margins. So we are reducing the excise gap to an optimal level and border trade should indeed disappear according to all estimates, especially if the country still acknowledges that it has made mistakes. But if he keeps bragging here that everything is fine and, in fact, there was border trade during the Russian era, well, congratulations! I would also like to confirm that, in the case of beer, there is a southern border, no, that is probably the overall amount, the total amount of border trade has increased from EUR 5 million in 2016 to about 30... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U176	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U177	...from strong alcohol 2 to 3 and wine from 0.7 to 3.4. So actually, in the case of beer, we are talking about a six-fold increase, which is also reflected, of course, in greater drinking. Not much bigger, but at the end of the drop in drinking, plus a little bump up. At the northern border, this has been said, border trade has decreased from 6 to 4.5 in the case of strong alcohol, and beer from 27 to 8. Pretty drastic loss of money. It has also been hard to say that previous governments have also increased excise duty. Yes, indeed, all governments have, fortunately, increased excise duty, based on the fact that alcohol must not be cheap, must be accompanied by inflation and purchasing power. But this model, of course, does not fully work in circumstances where neighbors do not behave the same way. That's why we could forget that sentence at all. It's a long way from the fact that we've been running along with incomes, inflation, we've still doubled the beer excise, sorry, you've doubled in two years. This cannot have an impact on the economy, public health and the budget. There's been a setback in all these things. Moreover, the comparison with Europe. There is definitely the highest excise duty on alcohol in Estonia, especially in the case of beer, when we relate it to income. Secondly, we have the largest alcohol border trade in Europe, amplified by other goods. The government coalition probably hasn't realized that these things go together when they go to buy alcohol, then they refuel and load other things in the car. In the end, our lean alcohol is the most expensive. It has been taken here as a nice lobby issue, but let us look a little bit at what European tax rates are. Then blame the lobbyists for the fact that everywhere in Europe, lean alcohol is favorable compared to strong alcohol, in all countries. Half of the countries have no wine excise duties at all, beer excise duty is much lower in most countries than we do, and alcohol policy deliberately prefers lean alcohol to strong alcohol. This is what Aivar already said that the cost of the molecule is absolutely different depending on whether you produce by fermentation or distillation. That, in turn, is why the rates are so different. But yes, these increases of the same percentage have actually benefited the drinking culture, less vodka and lean alcohol have replaced, but not entirely. Overall, drinking decreased in Estonia until its government. Happy birthday to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U178	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 697 at first reading. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the commission to reject the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Act amending the Law on Income Tax, the Social Tax Act and other laws at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 45 delegates, against 32. The proposal of the commission was supported and draft 697 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U179	Third reading of the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act 720 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. We are preparing for the final vote. Since we're in the voting zone, I'll give you one minute. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of the rural and agricultural market initiated by the Government of the Republic 720. Please take a stand and vote. The draft was supported by 74 ambassadors, no one opposed, no abstentions. The draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act 720 initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U180	The third reading of the draft law amending the Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 698. Political groups, there's a chance to negotiate. That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft, and we will do it in a minute. Are you ready to work at an early pace? Thank you! I am voting on the amendment to the Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment to other laws of 698. Please take a stand and vote. 75 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, with no abstentions. Draft Act 698 amending the Act on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U181	The third reading of the Act amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The political groups, you will be able to start negotiations. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft law. If you agree, 30 seconds. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 626. Please take a stand and vote. There were also 75 delegates in favour of this draft law, no one opposed and no abstentions. Draft Act 626 on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending the Health Insurance Act has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U182	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. The political groups can negotiate. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, 657. Please take a stand and vote. The 72 ambassadors were in favour of this bill, there was no one against it, there was no abstention. Draft Act 657 amending the Social Welfare Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Social Affairs Committee has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U183	Third reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Would you like to negotiate? If I may say so, you talk quite a bit, but not negotiate. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 712. Let's get ready for the vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Commercial Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 712. Please take a stand and vote. 75 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, with no abstentions. Draft Act 712 on the amendment of the Commercial Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U184	The third reading of the draft law amending the Act of the Assistant Police Officer initiated by the Riigikogu members Jaak Madison, Kalle Laaneti, Jaanus Kariladi, Toomas Vitsut, Raivo Aegi, Uno Kaskpeiti, Valdo Randpere, Külliki Kübarsse, Margus Tsahkna and Liisa Oviir. Faction groups, would you like to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I put to the vote the draft law amending the law on assistant police officer initiated by Riigikogu members Jaak Madison, Kalle Laaneti, Jaanus Karilaidi, Toomas Vitsuti, Raivo Aegi, Uno Kaskpeiti, Valdo Randpere, Külliki Kübarsep, Margus Tsahkna and Liisa Oviir. 631 Please take a stand and vote. The draft law was supported by 64 delegates, with 2 abstentions. Draft Act 631 amending the Auxiliary Police Act has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U185	Third reading of draft Act 660 amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Group negotiations. Please, Valeri Korb, the Estonian Centre Party faction!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U186	Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group supports the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act and related amendments to other laws. For many years, we have been talking about the fact that environmental charges are collected in the state budget mainly from where oil shale energy is used and where the chemical industry is located. Ida-Virumaa Municipalities Association explains very precisely, saying that many local authorities consider that the current local government financing arrangements do not take into account important factors relating to the distribution of environmental charges between local authorities and the state. Local authorities do not have incentives from the distribution of environmental charges to develop and support industry in their territory. It must be said that, under the current Environmental Charges Act, the distribution of environmental charges between the state budget and the local government budget does not take into account the environmental impact on the local government in which the industry is located. Due to the lack of compensation for the environmental impact of the oil shale industry and ash storage, local authorities do not wish to allow new environmental impact projects to be carried out on their territory. Due to the opposition, some procedures relating to the development of the oil shale industry, relating to planning in this area, are significantly difficult. Whether we can build modern and greener companies in the future will depend on it, and the Estonian economy will depend on it. Many local authorities and their leaders consider that the new version of the Environmental Charges Act may be the solution that can increase their revenue base. We consider it reasonable to increase the proportion of the oil shale mining right fee, and it is reasonable to direct EUR 0,08 per tonne of oil shale extracted into the local government's budget where the extracted oil shale is processed for oil shale oil or electricity production. What is very important is that the bill restructures the movement of money from environmental charges. In the following years, the amount of money received by the state budget from environmental charges will be allocated to the Ministry of the Environment. For years, environmental charges are received by the state budget and, to a certain extent, by the Environmental Investment Centre. Here, again, this bill gives a very important message. In doing so, it is planned to maintain funding for the environment for all local authorities at least to date. I must welcome the principle of strategic planning, better management of the use of money and the flow of money between budget lines. This change is necessary because setting the amount of funding at the rates applicable from 2009 is unjustified and rather restrictive today. This would end a situation where the Ministry of the Environment and its administrative authorities also request funds from KIK to finance the costs of their core activities. This will increase transparency and reduce the workload of administrative funding. Finally, I think that the amendments to the law should be welcome. Today the law must be passed, the law helps local governments and the state, everyone wins and first, I mean, wins our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U187	On behalf of the Kalle Palling Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came to this chair because I was the principal in this bill. I wanted to thank the representatives of all the political parties in the Committee on the Environment, who unanimously agreed to support the proposals that have been taken into account today in the version of the draft at third reading. Valeri Korb has already very nicely pointed out that one of the most important and I think that the groundbreaking approaches to this draft are that the municipalities in which the environmental disturbance is taking place also benefit more from these fees. I think this is a good example for the future of other types of activities than the oil shale industry, so that a balance can still be found if people or municipalities do not want any disturbance in their backyard, whether it is an oil factory, a wind farm or a factory. In other areas, a solution should also be found so that industry can still develop, while the living environment becomes better. One more thing remained on the part of the Reform Party. The proposal submitted by our members to set up a future investment fund, to which the environmental charges of oil shale and the dividends of RMK could be directed for the future, was not supported. However, we recognise that it is not possible to find support for such fundamental proposals at such a rapid pace of procedure. It was marked, and we also got confirmation from the Ministry of the Environment that they're moving on with that idea. I would like to thank once again the chairman of the Commission, Rainer Vakra, who has carried this process well on behalf of the Commission, all my fellow Members from the Commission and all of you who are ready to support this draft now at third reading. So thank you so much!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U189	There's no more calls. The commission's proposal is to have a final vote on draft 660; we will do so in half a minute. I am voting on the amendment of the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with this draft 660. Please take a stand and vote. 68 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, with no abstentions. Draft Act 660 on the amendment of the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U190	The next item is the second reading of the Riigikogu's resolution 'Accepting the State's Summary Report for the financial year 2017' by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U191	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision was at first reading in this Chamber on 14 November. Since then, the Commission has dealt with this on two occasions. On 20 November, we adopted a procedural decision proposing that the Management Board of the Riigikogu bring this draft to the Chamber today, on 5 December. On 3 December there was a substantive debate, it started at 11.15 a.m. and ended at 11.55 a.m., with this draft decision, we managed in one minute, namely that we unanimously adopted a decision to put this draft to the final vote in this Chamber. But in the meantime, I think one of the most interesting discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs over the last two years. In particular, Mr Sõerd has asked questions about the balance of the state budget both in this Chamber and in the framework of two questions in the Commission. If you simply formulate it, the question is that we all see that next year's budget expenditure is 11300000000, but the revenue is 250000000 less. At the same time, the Minister of Finance says that we are in surplus with 130 million. The difference is 380 million. To find out once where such figures come from, we had been invited by Mr Sven Kirsipuu, Head of the Department of Fiscal Policy, and Mrs Regina Vällik, who is an advisor to the State Budget Department. The debate, as I said, was very interesting; it has been made into an accurate verbatim, 11 pages. As Chairman of the Committee on Finance, it is my wish, first of all, that it should definitely be in the minutes of the day-to-day sitting. This is the document that, in my opinion, the staff of the Committee on Monetary Affairs could, at least in the near future, in the next composition, where sooner or later the same issues relating to structural balance will come forward as a distribution material. Here was the first mention of the 380 million difference we talked about. Secondly, this is what Mr Sõerd said, it would be as if the state budget were sent to Statistics Estonia to improve the figures there, that they had something to do with making the state budget, let us say, changing the figures. The first and easier thing to understand is that the Statistical Office of the Republic of Estonia is presenting its report to Eurostat. Eurostat has endorsed a certain model which must be met by national budgets in all Member States. This model is changing and it is simply not possible for Eurostat to compare or process 28 or in the future 27 national budgets that have been drawn up according to different rules. These are the accounting rules according to which these figures change. In the meantime, I'll tell you from memory, they asked me three times how it was going to happen. Sven Kirsipuu, whom all members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have known for many years as an excellent specialist, once replied that he is a lawyer, not an accountant, and that is the methodology used in the European Union since the 60s, which, in short, requires commitment in order to understand what is happening and how. The first question was a little harder, it touched on the difference. Firstly, there was a long introduction on the subject that the state budget did not equal the government budget balance. It was discussed how a forecast would be drawn up according to the input. Forty minutes of discussion. As I was saying, I will do everything I can to make this verbatim available. Clearly, we don't make it personal, there's only what's involved. Some questions remained. The Commission expressed the opinion that we should go to Statistics Estonia and talk to them about how this methodology works. That's what we're gonna do in the near future, I think, in January. But as I was saying, the procedural decision was taken. Two proposals were made, the other one was rather funny, but I had to put it to the vote. In the final vote, 8 members of the Commission voted in favour, 1 member of the Commission simply did not vote, there were no votes against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U192	There are questions for the waitress. Let me remind you, there can be up to two questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U193	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am quite frankly saying that it is very gratifying that we addressed this issue of understanding the balance of the budget. The point is that budget balance, surplus and deficit are the first things to be asked about the budget and what needs to be known. Of course, as you said, the state budget does not reflect the whole government sector. When we talk about the balance of government, it is affected by municipalities and other parts of the sector. However, the debate revealed that the impact of the municipalities was only 2 million, which is non-existent, the impact of the social security funds was 30 to 40 million euros and the remaining difference was more than 350. This adjustment took place in Statistics Estonia, but it is also possible to describe these accounting adjustments. Did you understand what was done at Statistics Estonia and what the records were carried out there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U194	A very good question, it gives me an opportunity to give you an example. We have a very well-understood negative number, what we use in our lives and when reviewing the state budget, seems to us to be at home, but you may know that it only started to be used at 4.5. In the 19th century, before that, it was like out of logic. It was thought that there could be something smaller than this thing itself when it ended, that it couldn't be less than nothing. I've done such funny things that I've been replacing a math teacher in a vocational school, for example. My experience tells me that there are people for whom it is absolutely impossible to explain what a complex number is. If you tell him how to get it, the next day he won't remember anything anyway. I am comforted in this situation, in the context of this debate, that, as I understood, there was a big question mark not only for me, but also for the two former finance ministers and for the former prime ministers. That means we've taken this accounting thing so far that only professionals can understand it. Of course, the question arose: Where, for God's sake, did it come from? Not only has it been used since the 1960s, but in Estonia this model started to be used quite seriously since 2010. What can I tell you? We were promised a wise book to be brought to the Commission. We found out there was at least one book that was smart. It's the book that describes these rules, and when this book is here, I guess I should see it. I hope it is in Estonian and it is possible to understand 100% of the text. Yeah, I'd like to look at something in that book to see what level it's on. But to say that I understand how this 380 million came about, that, after our discussion, such an understanding has arisen, I cannot. We are all faced with a big question.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U195	Honourable waitress, thank you very much. No further questions. I am opening negotiations between the political groups and the delegates of the committees. Please, Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U196	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Reform Party, all I am saying is that it is a state accounts report, it is a purely accounting document, it is technically correctly written by the accountants and there is nothing to blame for, the accountants have done a good job. This is the subject on which the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs has a little bit of a discussion, which concerned the 2019 budget and its understanding. This problem, which the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs has pointed out, is very correct and appropriate, because really it has become more difficult to understand and understand the budget year after year. But I do not want to talk more about this, because we are not talking about the budget now, we are talking about the annual report. So the annual report is correct in accounting terms, it complies with the accounting rules, and the state auditor, who is the National Audit Office, has said that this report correctly and fairly reflects the state's assets and liabilities. But, of course, we need to talk about the activity report on the annual report. I will say very briefly (three minutes remain) only that this was the first budget of the current coalition, which was largely drawn up by the previous government, but perhaps you will remember that the current coalition introduced extensive changes there. In particular, a package of large-scale tax changes was pushed through at the end of 2016, part of which, more specifically, some excise duties already entered into force in 2017 and also had a significant impact on the results of that financial year and part of the financial year, its state budget. The economy was growing, but as excise revenue was well planned to cover the various costs, but excise duties on alcohol did not come into the Estonian budget, but went to the Latvian budget, so the revenue and expenditure went out of order and the result is on the table in front of us. The government budget for 2017 was in deficit in all respects, no matter what position, nominally 0.4% minus, structurally 0.7% minus. The European Commission's assessment recently came, which also shows a structural minus. There was about as much reduction in reserves as the money went to Latvia. This would be a small comment on the state budget review in the annual summary report. But, of course, we will confirm this annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U197	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U198	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are, however, in the process of approving the country's consolidated accounts for the financial year 2017. Let me remind you that it was a year of quite high economic growth, a year in which public debt fell quite seriously. According to the National Audit Office, this annual report fairly reflects the state's financial position in all material respects and the economic result and cash flows of the reporting period that ended. The State's economic transactions have been carried out in a substantial part in accordance with the State Budget Act, the State Budget Act 2017 and the Amending Act. This means that the National Audit Office did not find any material errors in the implementation of the state budget laws. This is the decision that we have to confirm. It should also be said that all of this took place in a very difficult situation where the necessary tax changes were made very quickly and quite effectively to the state. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party, of course, supports this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U199	There's no more calls. No amendments have been tabled to draft 694. The proposal of the lead committee, as you have just heard, is a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Accepting the State's summary report for the financial year 2017' 694. Please take a stand and vote. 59 delegates voted in favour of the draft decision with one abstention. Draft 694 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on the approval of the State's consolidated report for the financial year 2017 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U200	The next item is the second reading of draft law 717 on amendments to the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this draft law at second reading on three whole occasions, but there are also reasons for it, because it is very important and has an impact on the lives of all of us. In particular, the draft aims to increase the productivity of the second pillar pension funds by reducing statutory pension fund fees, as well as broadening investment opportunities for pension funds. Moreover, this is a specific transposition of the directive on employer pensions. The draft provides for a reduction of the cap on the remuneration of the second pension pillar funds from the current 2% to 1.2% of the value of the pension fund's assets. In the first reading, a question was asked that was not answered at the time, namely where we would fit this 1.2% against OECD countries. The answer is that we would then be nicely among the OECD averages, which is probably a rather good compromise between the productivity of pension funds and the remuneration of fund managers. According to the draft, as a new measure in the case of good investment results, a further success fee may be charged as part of the governance fee. This can be achieved if the return on the pension fund exceeds the increase in the share of pension insurance in the social tax. Those people who have come into contact with pension insurance issues in this Chamber are well aware that, at least in recent years, the increase in the share of social tax pension insurance has been quite rapid. Nevertheless, if a fund is able to beat it, success pay is possible. The draft reduces, as has been said, investment restrictions for pension funds. Funds investing in 100% of the shares will be allowed in the future. The concept of a conservative pension fund will also be maintained, but they will also be allowed to invest up to 10% in shares when the draft comes into force. Under current law, these most conservative funds must not invest at all in shares. The second investment restriction, which will ease, is that more investment in real estate will be allowed, which could also support investment in Estonia in terms of the idea. According to the draft law, up to 10% of the pension fund's assets may be invested in a single immovable property, i.e. a building or object, up to a maximum of 5% of the pension fund's assets per property. In addition, the cumulative restriction that no fund may put more than 10% of its assets into real estate has been in place so far, which is now being removed. So there's going to be an important improvement in the requirements. This directive, which I was talking about, is, as has been said, the issue of occupational retirement pensions. Among other things, there will be a mandatory pension notification, which will provide information on how much money has been collected from the employer's pension scheme and how much remains to be expected from this scheme to the pension. Employers' contributions to the third pillar are not affected by the transposition of the Directive. It is important to know that there is no fund that is affected by this particular directive in Estonia at the moment, so I am not going to dwell on it at this time either. The first reading of the bill took place in this Chamber on 17 October. No proposals from the Riigikogu were received by the deadline for amendments, which was 31 October. However, eight organisations and companies expressed their views, or eight different opinions. As this draft has a very large social impact, the Commission, when reviewing these opinions, considered it reasonable to involve stakeholders, including business representatives, who had expressed an opinion. Such an inclusive Commission meeting took place on 15 November. Several topics were in question. We discussed the reduction of fund charges, but also those things that are not specifically concerned by this draft, but which, in the view of the parties, could be dealt with in the future. One of them concerns the raffle procedure. I have to admit, I was very surprised that, depending on the year, one third to even half of those people who are starting their own workmanhood, or are starting to raise their pension, are not interested in which fund their pension will be collected. Think about it for a second. The choice of pension fund has a direct impact on the amount of a person's future pension, but a third to a half are not interested in it. In my eyes, and here I do not necessarily represent the position of the Commission, but I will, if you will allow me, make a personal remark that, although all people in Estonia are supposed to be better investors than the authorized professionals who manage our pension pillars, as much as one third to half are not even interested in this subject, I am not quite sure whether they would actually be very responsible for making their investment decisions. Let it be for each member of the Riigikogu to assess how it is. What did we essentially decide to change in this raffle procedure? However, not with this draft, but with the officials of the Ministry of Finance, they told us that the Minister's regulation was already under preparation, and they promised that it would be completed in parallel with what was discussed in the Commission. We discussed which funds will be drawn to those who are not interested. According to current practice, raffles have only been drawn between the most conservative funds, but they are, unfortunately, the least profitable for a long time. This means that since those who start collecting pensions are mostly young people, at the beginning of their careers, and the pension is collected, for example, for 45 years, these funds, which are slightly more sudden or faster, are likely to yield higher returns during this period. It was therefore agreed to change this circle of funds from which to select. Whether each pension fund manager can propose a single fund or have other criteria, this is decided by Minister Tõniste, but as a principle, this time will change. Let this be just background information, because the specific draft does not concern it, but the amendment has a ministerial regulation. The parties made proposals on the entry into force and implementation of the draft amendments, but I will talk about them when we get to those amendments, which were also supported by the Commission, very soon. We discussed this issue at the meeting of the Commission on 20 November, where, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and partly due to the inclusion session, we examined five amendments in total. The first one is simple, it makes the wording clearer. The second amendment is also quite simple; it harmonises the terminology and wording used in the draft. It is also easy with the third, it adds the necessary reference to the provision. I will not dwell in detail on these three proposals. The fourth and fifth relate to deadlines. The fourth proposal before was one specific deadline, the deadline for implementing the lower rate of government fees was 3 September, but we found out that, in fact, the first Monday of September 2019 of the year in question was 2 September, and so we changed that date. However, the fifth proposal is much more substantive. It is intended that the start of the implementation of the success fee will be synchronised with the above-mentioned date. Since there are also tax technical details in the accounting period concerning social tax accounts, it is not September 2 but August 31st. A little bit of a difference, but basically they're at the same time. So as soon as the restrictions are relaxed and there is a chance of less success pay, the start-up phase will also be opened in order to create a reference period on which, in future, if the return is derived, it will be possible to obtain a success fee. The Commission worked hard and in full agreement. In consensus, we decided to propose that the second reading be stopped, and if it is completed with the help of all of you, then send the draft to the third reading in plenary by 12 December, including. As has been said, all the decisions were well taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U202	Thank you, good waitress. There's a question for you too. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! I'm just curious. Was it a glitch when you used the expression several times that young people who are at the beginning of their career do not follow the welfare of pension funds? Do you really mean only men and worry about them, i.e. women don't have a problem at all, they watch, or it was a glitch, and it actually applies to all young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U204	I believe that we have people in this room who are teachers of the mother tongue, teachers of the Estonian language, and can confirm my words when I say that the word 'workman's way' has been gender-neutral in Estonian since the beginning. In the same way, for example, Ene Ergma could be called the former Chairman of the Riigikogu without insulting him. True, he can also be called the premiere, but I am absolutely certain that many of the chairmen of the committee, who we still have in this Chamber, will not be offended if they are spoken of by the chairman of the committee. So you can be sure that the word 'workman's way' was meant to be gender neutral. We have not done or asked for separate statistics on whether and how much it affects the different sexes and whether there is any big difference. Rather, I believe that men and women behave in a similar way. But the problem is really serious. We should think separately about what we could do, or what these pension funds could do, so that there is not so much randomity. This is a major problem, because if half the people in some years are not interested in their future pension, then there is nothing left to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U205	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U206	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In this hall, too, the right thing has been to say on several occasions that pension fund assets are being invested in Estonia too modestly, very little. Was there any further mention of this in the Commission? Did you get an overview of whether there are any positive trends now or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U207	Thank you. Different funds have slightly different strategies. In the case of some funds, it is emphasised that more investments are being made in Estonia. However, some of the amendments to this draft are aimed at creating more instruments in which these funds could invest, not at second reading, but at making changes to the original text. Now I will say my opinion again, because this is not the way we discussed in the Commission. My understanding of these things is that if, for example, we put some kind of obligation on all funds to invest in x percent, there would be a huge bubble risk. Because if we forced an increase in the supply of money and not in line with it, prices will simply rise and there will be a huge setback. We have proposed, with this bill, that the government is the initiator of the draft, and the Commission has advocated that, instead, these instruments should be increased, as stated in the specialized language, but, more simply, the places where the pension fund can channel its money. In the case of real estate, I believe that the Estonian pension funds still have a very big reason to look towards Estonian real estate. I assume that, at this point, I apologise if I misinterpret in any way, that the interest of pension funds may be, above all, to look at the cash-flow property that leads to current income. However, as Estonia is at such a stage of development or growth as a country where the value of real estate can be expected to increase over time, investment in cash-flow real estate, I believe, can really give a pretty high rate of return. Let it be said, of course, that this was not an investment advice, because I do not have a certificate of formal qualifications or, more specifically, a certificate of formal qualifications, and that was a personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U208	Mr Taavi Kõivas, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there are no further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U210	I'm opening negotiations. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U211	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna have to talk. First of all, my first warm recommendation to all political parties in the Riigikogu and also to those who do not belong to it is to look at the explanatory statement at first reading of this draft. In general, it would be good if there were people in each party who could take clear views on the future of over 600,000 collectors. The first elementary thing is to understand what a pension is, which is a pension fund, which makes the pension fund different from the investment fund, etc. In the case of this draft too, the previous government's very serious work and the draft explanatory memorandum itself are already like half the history of it. But I have to talk about administrative fees here, because the Riigikogu is the place to talk about it, and there have been debates about how else. Then, when the whole thing was described, the initial idea was, by the way, to follow the example of several other countries, that the administration fees that funds can charge would not need to be set aside at all, because the market makes all people decide and go from one fund to another if someone asks too much. The administrative fee ceiling was set in the original plan solely because, since we had a voluntary membership, no one could predict how many of these funds will suddenly come so few that there will be no competition, and then there will be such fees that people will be in trouble. So that was the only reason why the ceiling was assigned to the management fees. Later it turned out that everyone would take, see, the ceiling close. The first reaction was to amend this provision of the law, which initially allowed people to change pension funds only once a year. Look, they can't change the fund. We'll limit it too much. To make the market work, this restriction was removed, but still nothing happened. And then, in about 2004, someone from the opposition who has to answer questions about funded pensions all the time wrote a big long call in Äripäev. I called for such a pension fund to be formed or for it to be deliberately promoted as a fund that takes half the lower administrative fees. I thought we'd see what happens then. Nothing happened. By the way, since administrative fees were also subject to a deadline to understand their temporary nature, how long they would have to be taken, the Riigikogu had to extend it several times and at one point linked them to the volume of the fund. This, in turn, put pressure on the funds to reduce administrative charges. However, nothing happened until a cooperative named Future was formed, who advertised himself among well-informed pension collectors and told us that they had an index fund, that the costs were very low and therefore their administrative fees were very low. I made sure it took exactly 13 years for someone to do something like that. So, in fact, this is a phenomenon where, unfortunately, the market is not yet fully operational. The changes that we are making with this draft today are very sensible and necessary. I would just like to make one comment on the call made by Mr Kõivas. Young people do not know much about the matter and allow conservative funds to be created, but the state does not have the right to create large risks for them, so they draw conservatives. Just two examples. In this second pillar debate, I've had two good conversations. One person claimed that all the money was burned. When I started to find out where he burned up, it turned out later that it wasn't a pension fund, it was another investment fund. The saddest thing was a person who also claimed that all the money had been burned. He was not a young person at the beginning of his career as a worker or a workwoman, but a lecturer at a university, a professor. When he was asked where his money burned, he said he didn't know, he had to see where he put his money. Unfortunately, these stories are so sad. Take an interest! Retirement Centre.ee, there you can keep track of productivity and everything from there all the time, every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U212	Thank you, Mr. Nestor. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed a revision of the amendments, which are five. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The second is similarly from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The third, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to take full account, the fourth, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to take full account, and the fifth from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 717. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U213	Let's go to the 12th item. Second reading of the draft law amending the law on vocational training institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 704. Please speak to Krista Aru, Member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! This is a law amending the VET Act and related amendments to other laws. At first reading of this draft in this House, I have already said that the subject is very broad and large, but now I recall the aims of this law and will also give an overview of how the Committee on Culture has delivered this very important bill. The Ministry of Education and Research handed the draft to the Riigikogu on 27 September. The first reading took place in plenary on 17 October and our request and proposal was that all amendments be tabled by 31 October. No amendments were received from Riigikogu committees, delegates or political groups. However, the Committee on Culture received opinions from external stakeholders and organisations whose work and activities are directly affected by the draft law. Namely, we were given direct feedback in the form of a proposal, written form by the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as well as a fine institution such as the Estonian Quality Agency for Higher and Vocational Education. The Committee on Culture, having examined the opinions received from outside and also knew all this vocational education and training subject, in the light of its previous experience, in particular when the national issue of importance was addressed in this House, started to be further examined at its meeting on 5 November. In general, the Committee on Culture dealt with this draft and this whole issue a little more widely, and it did so both at its meeting on 5 November, at its meeting on 13 November and at its meeting on 19 November. At this first meeting on 5 November, we had invited representatives of interested groups from the Commission and representatives of the organisations and bodies directly affected by this draft law. On 5 November, Tarmo Loodus, Chairman of the Management Board of the Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training, and Tanel Linnus, vice-president of the same association, took part. I think that both names are almost everyone's acquaintances; these people are known first and foremost as VET managers, who have a lot of practical experience. Anneli Entson, Education Advisor of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, Reemo Voltri, Chairman of the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, Marge Kroonmäe, Head of Vocational Training of the Estonian Quality Agency for Higher and Vocational Education, Tõnis Lukas, Director of Tartu Vocational Education Centre, Maarja-Katrin Kerem, Member of the Management Board of the Estonian Vocational Chamber, and Tiia Randma, Development Manager of the OSKA programme. Of course, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research, the head of the Department of Vocational Education, Teet Tiko, and the lawyer of the Legal Department, Hilje Arukuusk, were also present, who has also been the legal preparer of this bill. The debate on 5 November was very diverse and meaningful, and it actually addressed the subject of vocational education in a broader sense, not just this draft law. We also touched very much on issues such as how and what should be done and what can be done to improve the image of vocational education and training for young people who want to get good skills and are ready to apply immediately to work where there is a need for them. Of course, from this broader topic we moved to those issues that are directly related to the draft law. In particular, the representatives of the VET Association, both Mr Tarmo Nature and Mr Tanel Linnus, confirmed that the VET institutions themselves are very pleased with this draft and with all the changes that they want to implement. The changes are actually three orders of magnitude. The three most important and perhaps the most fundamental changes to this draft law are as follows. Firstly, flexibility in the organisation of all vocational training. The organisation of vocational training will become more flexible and more suitable for the school, as well as taking into account the regional needs noted by the school itself. Another major change is the organisation of the financing system. The third major change is the reorganisation of the assessment of vocational schools or vocational education and training institutions themselves. The assessment, be it a higher education institution or a vocational education institution, is always very much bureaucracy and documents in both types of educational establishments that need to be provided. If you look at the frequency of the assessment, one round will actually end and the other will begin. The aim is now to make the assessment of the level of vocational education very clearly a result-based, advice-based, substantive assessment, which would also provide support to the school, in particular, rather than merely a bureaucratic exercise. This is directly linked, on the one hand, to the requirements for evaluation, but, on the other hand, if the right to organise open-ended learning has already been granted, it does not need to be repeated all the time again and to prove itself. The second set of changes concerns basic support. We have talked here about the introduction of basic support for teachers and support specialists in connection with the General Education and Upper Secondary School Act. These same opportunities are now being introduced into vocational education and training on the same basis. This is of fundamental importance, because in vocational education we also have a situation where the need for support specialists is only growing, but there is nowhere to find specialists and, in fact, the differences between the treatment and pay of these support specialists are too great. The third set of changes is, in essence, very important for the VET itself in terms of the organisation of the work. Firstly, it is a principle that a vocational training institution may start to provide general education in a non-static form. At the first moment, such very negative reactions came to this possibility from upper secondary schools for adults. Quite naturally, because this has been their task so far. Will VETs now be replaced? This is a well-founded fear, but there is no real basis for it. This is just one opportunity that has been raised to the agenda by life itself. It really gives a vocational education and training institution the opportunity to provide general education to people who have been deprived of it for various reasons, and now they can also acquire it in a vocational education and training centre. Another substantive change, which actually concerns the organisation of the work of the vocational education institution itself, is an exciting and novel thing that has already been tested at the Tartu Vocational Education Centre. That is why we also had Tõnis Lukas to present it in the Commission. It is a professional choice curriculum that belongs to a group of personal development curricula. This may seem very difficult, but if I try to explain simply, this professional selection curriculum, which belongs to a group of personal development curricula, actually means a slightly more personalized, personalized opportunity for those students who do not know what they want to study, or who have left their studies. They are currently given such an opportunity to do so on the pilot project I can speak specifically on the basis of the Tartu Vocational Education Centre, that he is studying a profession from the week, for example, three days, then one day studying general education subjects, one day internship. So he'll figure out for one year what kind of profession he's into, whether it's a tisler, whether it's a welder, but maybe he wants to become a cook instead. It is such a completely novel approach, but it should help to bring precisely those people who, for various reasons, may need a little different treatment and perhaps more time to decide. At the first session, we talked long and listened to the experiences of Tõnis Lukas, listened to all the other heads of vocational education and became convinced that they were mainly concerned about two things. First of all, the teacher frame and, consequently, the issue of teachers' pay, especially in terms of the invitation to teach. On the other hand, managers are currently confused and unaware of what these new evaluation criteria are now in place and what will show how successful one school is. However, this resolution of the performance evaluation criteria is currently taking place in working groups and is introduced by a ministerial regulation. At the first meeting, of course, the problems raised by the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry were also seriously raised. There were two of them. Firstly, both organisations felt that it was not good and not right to abolish the concept of a national training order. Why do they think it's not good? The fear is that the country will lose a large general national picture of its vocational training and also of its curricula. Therefore, both the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the representative of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry in their written address supported the fact that the national training order rather than the concept should remain. This discussion, which began at our first meeting, continued on 13 November and ended on 19 November, revealed that this fear has been knowingly mitigated by a number of measures by the Ministry. First, the aim is to revive the Estonian Chamber of Professionals, who looks at the supranational picture, takes the results of OSKA, listens to the opinions of the professional associations and then tries to understand what is needed in Estonia somewhere. Then comes the Ministry, which coordinates and concludes with the vocational school the operational contract by which it is financed. The ministry can also be further specified. Plus each school has its own council, including representatives of professional associations. So this fear or fear of the country losing a big picture has been grounded in four forms. That is what we were really convinced of at the end of the day in our committee. We raised this problem quite a number of times from a different angle. Another major issue is the restructuring of all funding. Simply put, this means that all the money going to vocational education and training institutions is basically divided into two: one is basic funding, which is 80% of the total amount of money, and the other is performance funding, which can be up to 20%. The employers' proposal was such that this performance funding could be at least 20%, because if it is up to 20%, it may not have such a good impact on the school's own activities. So, at the meeting on 13 November, as we did not have any amendments, during the presentation and discussion of the proposals made by the Commission's own staff during the review of the draft law, in particular our good advisers. The focus here was on Urvo Klokes. These proposals, which were discussed by the Commission itself, that whether they are possible and suitable as a Commission proposal, lay down basically the procedures for the various applications, the time for submitting and processing documents, as well as the deadlines and arrangements that the school needs to know. The important thing is that they are unambiguous. Here, in my opinion, the most fundamental and substantive proposal of the seven which the Commission is proposing is this proposal, which gives the Ministry the opportunity to assess the new curriculum offered by this school, which is being opened, desirable, and also to reject it, for example if it is found to be inappropriate for the country. Until now, there was no such opportunity. The school's recommended curriculum could only be rejected if it did not meet the legal conditions very clearly, but the eligibility criterion was completely lacking in the law. Its introduction should really protect the country from the possibility that all vocational schools, for example, want to start training make-up workers at once. This should further give the assurance that vocational education and training curricula are broadly responsive to the needs of the country and take into account regional specificities. The proposals made by the Commission have all been discussed with representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research. In particular, Deputy Secretary-General Ivar Sikk and Head of the Department of Vocational Education Teet Tiko have participated in our committee meetings, whose answers to vocational education have been accepted by the Commission, at least in the dimensions of this bill. Those questions that remain in the air and which we cannot answer in any way about this bill are correct in many ways. For example, the same question is that if a young person is unable to pass a vocational examination It doesn't concern this bill, but the question was left in the air. The whole issue of the image of vocational education remained exactly the same for the next time. It is so great, it concerns not only this bill, the Committee on Culture and not only this house, but actually the whole society. All our decisions were consensual. The decision of the Committee on Culture is to conclude the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the large hall by 12 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U215	Madame Aru, thank you for your very thorough review. No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U217	Please! I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. Seven amendments to the draft have also been tabled, and we will examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, the lead committee: take full account. The second proposal is from the Committee on Culture, the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment is from the Committee on Culture, to be fully taken into account. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Culture, the lead committee: take full account. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Culture, the lead committee: take full account. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Culture, to be fully taken into account. And the seventh amendment is from the Committee on Culture, to take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 704. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U218	Let's go to item 13 on the agenda. Second reading of the draft Act amending the Museum Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 716. I'd like a presentation from a member of the Committee on Culture, Heidy Purga.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U219	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Good President! Second reading of the draft law amending the Museum Act. The main idea and aim of this draft is that Estonia should be more on the world cultural map so that we can have world-renowned, high-quality and famous exhibitions. The first reading of this draft took place in the Riigikogu on 7 November, including the deadline for amendments; by 21 November, the members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees did not submit proposals. According to this draft, the Museum Act amends the provisions on compensation by the State of damage to the owner of an international exhibition. In designing international exhibitions, the use of the term 'indeterminate force' in the museums' foreign partners has created uncertainty in the list of risks not covered by State compensation for damages provided by the museums. The problem is both the excessive abstraction of this term, which does not make it possible to foresee with sufficient certainty in which cases the Estonian state will not compensate for the damage, and the fact that the damages granted by the state are not covered by the damage caused by certain phenomena which are classicly classified as force majeure, but for which it is customary to ensure protection in the practice of exhibiting international exhibitions. In order to address the problem, the use of the term "forceless force" is abandoned in this context and the non-reimbursement risks are formulated considerably more precisely in the Government of the Republic Regulation in order to ensure that the list can be amended more operationally if necessary. The preparation for the second reading of the draft was discussed in the Committee on Culture on 22 November, including. The Commission reviewed the linguistic amendments to the draft law and decided to send the draft law amending the museum law to the second reading in plenary by 5 December, including the proposal to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U220	Thank you, Mrs Purga. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 716. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U221	Let's go to item 14. Second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 706. We ask Helmen Küti, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U222	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I will give an overview of what has taken place in the Committee on Social Affairs between the first reading and the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products. Just as a reminder, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the pharmaceutical law on 27 September, including a draft amendment to the requirements of the safety features of medicines, which need to be brought into line with the European Commission Delegated Regulation. The implementation of the European Commission Delegated Regulation will introduce safety features for medicinal products across Europe and create a system that will allow future identification of the authenticity of the medicinal product at each stage of the pharmaceutical supply chain. The draft will oblige pharmaceutical manufacturers to place security features on the packaging of prescription medicinal products, a unique identifier and an anti-infringement device. The first reading took place on 17 October. The amendment was tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Karilaid and Monika Haukamm; no further proposals were made. The Committee on Social Affairs itself made some proposals and accompanied ten organisations in the draft procedure, asking for their opinion. Five organisations sent a written opinion on the draft. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Estonian Pharmacies, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Confederation of Estonian Employers and the Association of Estonian Patients proposed to extend the transitional period for the termination of branch pharmacies. Although this is not directly the subject of this bill, as there are security features in particular here, but since two members of the Riigikogu tabled an amendment, and this was about branch pharmacies, their appeal and concern were undoubtedly justified. The Commission discussed the draft at four meetings: on 13 November, 19 November, 20 November and 3 December. On 13 November there was a very long and in-depth debate, to which we had invited all the stakeholders who expressed their views and to whom we addressed ourselves. At this meeting of the Commission, organisations presented their concerns or proposals in depth. They were explained by Helen Berk, Adviser to the Department of Medicine of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and by Jaanus Põldmaa, Legal Adviser and Deputy Chancellor Maris Jesse. We did not vote in the meeting on 13 November, we just listened to all the interest groups, people could also ask questions and it was decided (consensus) to continue the debate in the committee. The next meeting was held on 19 November. The proposals were then reviewed and voted on. Two amendments were tabled, one of which, after the so-called research organisation, referred to the words 'public legal entity' or 'health insurance fund'. Within the meaning of this bill, the Health Insurance Fund now has the right to carry out statutory tasks. That is precisely because before the Health Insurance Fund was not one of the persons entitled to the wholesale purchase of medicines under the current pharmaceutical law, we now supplemented it and gave it that right. This certainly does not mean that now the Health Insurance Fund is going to run or run a warehouse, but it is the Health Board that actually receives this right and obligation. The second proposal, as has been said, was the amendment tabled by Ms Haukanõm and Mr Karilaid. It was voted in favour by four votes to three, with one abstention and the proposal was supported. The Commission decided to continue the debate in the Commission because, due to the support of this proposal, we turned to the Ministry of Social Affairs and asked what it meant for deadlines and the date of entry into force of the law. At the next meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 20 November, in which both Deputy Secretary-General Maris Jesse, Adviser Helen Berk of the Pharmaceutical Department, and Legal Adviser Jaanus Põldmaa participated, we asked them a question and had asked them to prepare a reply. We asked that, if the amendment was supported, what does it mean and how does it relate to the entry into force of the draft law? Mr Põldmaa said that the provision voted in the draft text would enter into force on 9 February 2019. The following decisions were also taken at the same meeting of the Commission: to put the draft on the agenda by 5 December, to date, to propose that the second reading be closed, to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, and to put it to the final vote by 12 December. True, all these decisions were consensual. Previously, Maris Jesse, who also attended the committee meeting, had asked to consider whether it was reasonable to deal with two things as different as branch pharmacies and security features in a single law. We asked the Members of the Commission whether they wanted to review the amendment voted on at the previous Commission meeting on 19 November, but the proposal for a new vote was not supported. The votes were divided in favour, against 5, so it was not supported and the amendment was not voted again. On 3 December, there was a debate at which we voted on the third amendment, all of which is very clear from both the explanatory memorandum and the table of amendments, i.e. the wording of § 2 (2) of the draft, i.e. how the points of the law concerning both information and the right of the health insurance fund to be included in that list will enter into force. These points shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. If you look at the bill, it says that the law itself will enter into force on 9 February 2019. I have reported everything that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U223	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Committee on Social Affairs, Helmen Kütt. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. As we have heard, three amendments have been tabled, and we will examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Karilaid and Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is to take full account of. The third amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 706. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U224	We will go to item 15 on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (613 SE). Please, Mrs. Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U225	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! It is my great happiness and pleasure to introduce you to a very large and voluminous law, a draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. As a reminder, the aim of the draft is to introduce changes relating to the retirement age and pension formula and to create a flexible pension, as well as to open up membership to the second pension pillar. A great deal of attention is devoted to the pension formula, a little less has been said about flexible retirement age. There is also one point in this draft concerning the second pillar pension, but only to the extent that the possibility of joining the second pillar will be re-opened to those born between 1970 and 1982. As we know, the second pillar is already mandatory for those born in 1983 or later. What happened between the first reading and the second reading? The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 9 April; the first reading was completed on 2 May. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 16 May. By the deadline, the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Estonian Free Party Group submitted amendments. The Estonian Reform Party Group tabled nine amendments to amend the draft, the Estonian Free Party Group four. I would like to say in advance that, at the meeting of the Commission on 20 November, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party withdrew one amendment, which was the result of the votes that took place there. The Social Affairs Committee was also approached by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which made its proposals to complete the draft. On 30 April the Commission itself sent letters to the organisations involved in the preparation of the draft, 14 of them. The Commission also addressed the youth organisations, which were the Estonian Competition Society, the Estonian Students' Society, the Estonian Open Youth Centres Association, and the Estonian Youth Foundation. And when a member of the Riigikogu, Taavi Rõivas, presented his presentation here today, pointed out the fact that one third of those who started the workmanhood are not interested at all in what pillar it is, I am sad to say that none of these youth organisations sent us their opinion either. None! At the same time, the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Confederation of Trade Unions, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Office of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and the Chancellor of Justice gave their opinion. After the end of the first reading, the draft was on the agenda for four meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs: 29 May, 6 and 20 November and 3 December. In the first of those sittings, which was on 29 May, we met stakeholders who had sent their opinions, but also those who did not, were invited and were very actively involved. The hearing was long and thorough. Each author of the proposal explained his thoughts and a specific proposal in principle. Tõnu Lillelaid participated and provided explanations from the Ministry of Finance. Katre Pall, head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Lidia Soontak, head of pension policy Agne Nettan-Sepp, legal adviser Susanna Jurs and adviser to the Employment Department, Õie Jõgiste, was present at the Ministry of Social Affairs. So the debate was very thorough and very long. At this session, the Committee on Social Affairs decided that, since there were many explanations and questions, we will continue the debate on this draft. And a surprise surprise, when we then resumed this debate on 6 November, there was a revised version of the draft on our table. As I have already said, the Reform Party Group and the Free Party Group tabled amendments and they were all discussed very thoroughly before the vote. This can be seen both in the explanatory memorandum and in the table of amendments. On 29 May, we had such an option on the table that the pension formula will be completed with the fourth and fifth parts, which are the combined part and the solidarity part. The first three parts of the formula would be the same as in the current formula. By letter of 1 November, the Ministry of Social Affairs expressed its wish to exclude the fifth part of the pension formula, i.e. the solidarity part, and to implement the fourth part of the pension formula from 2021. So, as has already been presented in the media, diagram 50: 50. The pension would not depend, as was the case at first reading, on seniority, on working time, but on 50% of the salary and 50% of the working time. We had a debate on this on 6 November. Katre Pall also explained the address of the Chancellor of Justice, which pointed out that the formula for calculating retirement age is currently laid down at the level of the regulation, but it must be laid down in the law. In addition, we decided to ask for an opinion on this issue for several people was the question of why to write § 7 and § 71 into the law. These are different dates of entry into force. The current regulation will apply until 2027; the new pension formula will enter into force after 2027. We asked for a legal analysis of whether it should be written into the law from the analysis department of the Riigikogu. The debate was once again very long and thorough. For the sake of clarity and perhaps also for the sake of the verbatim report, I note that the representative of the Ministry of Finance, Tõnu Lillelaid, explained to us three solutions for the distribution of old-age pensions. One possibility is that the first pillar depends only on salary. The second option is that the first pillar depends only on the length of service. And the third option is that the first pension pillar depends only on the part of solidarity. If the current situation continues, very many people will have a small share of the first pillar, and in time this share will decrease, but the number of people who have this concern will increase. If the pension were only dependent on retirement, many people would move from poverty to the average pension recipients, while many would also remain on the poverty line. The compromise proposed jointly by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance was that a part of solidarity would be used. In this way, the low-paid would receive a higher pension and the higher-paid would receive a slightly lower pension compared to the initial proposal. So there were a lot of questions. Finally, the Commission decided to continue the debate. The debate continued on 20 November, when we had already received a good overview of the draft, we also started to vote on the amendments. The results of the vote have been recorded in the minutes. The part is disregarded, the part is accounted for. It's written very thoroughly in the explanatory memorandum. I'm not going to read it. After the vote, we took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the sitting on 5 December, to propose that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed, by 12 December and then to the final vote. These decisions were consensual. On 3 December, we had another meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs. And since a lot of changes were made to the draft, it was necessary to vote on this so-called 'cleansing' on the basis of the correct numbering. The votes at the meeting on 3 December were consensual; all the proposals were fully taken into account. There's only one question left, it's linguistic. Thank you to Mr Jaanson, who asked about Amendment 25 whether it was right to 'pay' or 'pay' in the sentence. That's what we asked the language editor. It was subsequently decided to authorise the chairman of the committee to sign the second reading procedural documents and this was also a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U226	Thank you, Mrs. Hunter, you have some questions. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U227	Thank you. I believe it must have been an accident when you quoted slightly inaccurately Tõnu Lillelais that there are three options from which the pension can be made up. In real life, there has never been a first pillar in Estonia that is dependent solely on income or only on years of work. There has always been a base part and this base part is equal to about 40% of the average pension under the current system. And it's growing faster than the annual pension grade. So the contribution of this base element, or equalizing element, to pensions is actually increasing. In addition, of course, pensions are significantly more equal than the income of the same people before retirement. My question is very simple. The tax changes of the current coalition have already helped to increase the distribution of envelope wages in Estonia. Aren't you afraid that if we lose all or at least most of our pension dependency on income, the envelope wages will grow even more?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U228	Thank you very much for this question. Of course, everyone knows that the first pillar of the pension really is made up of three parts. I was guided by the law in force, according to which one third depends on salary. And this one third, in addition to the base part and the working time, this wage dependency is what the pension reform is looking for. It is also specified that the pension reform started in 2014, but the various options have been discussed and developed in the past. With regard to whether this in any way affects tax receipts, this was mentioned in the Commission. Tõnu Lillelaid said we have the Tax and Customs Board to deal with dishonesty. Indeed, this solution, which is now on the table as a new option after the first reading, provides for a 50:50 scheme. The third part, or the base part, of course, remains. The original draft submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the government provided only for dependence on seniority; now the option provides that it depends on 50% of working time and 50% of salary. At the moment, the pension is largely dependent on salary and I think that there are still issues with the payment of envelope wages and taxes. However, we did not identify this direct dependence in the Commission, although there was quite a lot of talk about it and questions were also asked on this subject. And by the way, these are all very well set out in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U229	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U230	It was a failed comment that the tax administration could cope with those who have an incentive not to pay the tax. The existence of incentive always works more effectively than the work of the tax administration. But a strange change in this bill stimulates early retirement. So far, we have taken into account the need to encourage people to stay longer in the labour market. Now all of a sudden, this change. How is this justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U231	Thank you for referring to this comment. I'm sure I'll tell Tõnu Lillelaiu that wasn't my comment. However, the Commission said that if a person's salary is dependent on obtaining a loan, parental benefit as well as many other important factors in a person's life, there is hardly any interest in showing a small salary. For young people, parental benefit is important and they also think about the future, the pension. So it's not very likely. As regards the second part of your question... Remind me what it was! [[Jürgen Ligi says something about the hall.]] Oh, yeah, early retirement. There are just over 300,000 pensioners in Estonia. Some 1 000 pensioners have been left out of work for a longer time. The fact that people retire early is very often about solving social problems. People have retired early because they have lost their jobs, their health has deteriorated, but not to the extent that they have been given partial incapacity for work, for example. There has been a shortage of jobs in some regions, especially in times of economic recession or depression. But in order to motivate people to work longer, flexibility has been introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U232	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U233	Thank you. This half-solution doesn't make anything any clearer. Even someone my age, who went to work in early 1999, already has four components on which my pension depends. And the way it's good to partly decouple from pay, I honestly don't understand that. But the question is about something else. According to the current law, people can retire before and after retirement age, as you yourself said. Going before is demotivated because a person will not receive the pension he has earned. Later, however, it is motivated to go. And I think that's right, that's what we want to do, the later people stay home from work, the better. According to this draft, it will later be abolished and, as is said in the professional language, made actuarially neutral. How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U234	Thank you for that question. First of all, I say that, as we all know, pension depends to a large extent on two components: the first pillar and the second pillar. A earner will certainly receive more money in the second pillar than a person receiving a minimum wage in the second pillar will receive much less money in the second pillar. As was said at the beginning, why this pension reform is necessary: precisely because the number of people receiving the minimum wage is very high and their future pension would be very low in 2050, for example, or even after 2030. They should also be paid income support. That is why we want to make the system more solidarityable. I also argue that if a person gets a higher salary, he gets more money than the first pillar from the second pillar. So that should motivate him not to retire early. And if a person retires later than the age of retirement and decides not to receive a pension immediately, it will not be punished. On the contrary, the money and stature earned in these years will later give you a higher pension. But as was said before, it is true that there are only a thousand of these people for just over 300,000 pensioners. Of course, we want people to stay on the labour market longer, and the fact that if they stay home before the right time, the pension will be lower, perhaps motivates people not to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U235	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U236	This question of amending the pension insurance law looks like a hot potato that gets rolled in the hand all the time and doesn't get cooled off to eat. Here's the question. We're actually inventing a bicycle right now. Have we studied how the system is built in welfare countries, whether in Finland, Sweden, Denmark or Norway? Would it not make sense to analyse what is the optimal option and adopt it? Has anything been done in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U237	Thank you for your question. This is not exactly the way we addressed it in the Commission, and I am currently the Commission's rapporteur. I myself, of course, have studied very much about the welfare countries of Finland, Sweden and Norway, but this was not addressed in the Commission. But we had a very interesting conference organised by the Centre for Monitoring Development, which also gave an overview of how pensions are calculated in Finland. So there is a picture of what systems exist in other countries. In Estonia, the collection of money into the second pillar has also been in force for a very short time. In well-being countries, including the Nordic countries, insurance companies are very strong. We cannot compare ourselves very well with them; we still have to deal with things like Estonia. But I'm sure there'll be thoughts. In the Commission, no one directly asked for such an analysis to be set aside.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U238	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U239	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I like this bill, but some questions have arisen. We should move in the direction that if a minimum wage has been fixed in Estonia and a person is in full-time work for that salary, he should receive at least one letter of insurance. At the same time, let's be honest, this legislative amendment will not bring any cents to the pension fund. In fact, we all hoped that this injustice would at least be eliminated on paper, but at this point it would still be that the coefficient 0.7 would still be, and indeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U240	Thank you. I'm very sure I'm on the same boat as you, but unfortunately, it was written in the text of the original draft. The text of the second draft seeks a compromise. I would like to say in advance that the proposal of the Reform Party was to retain the cracked system, which would still have been a wage-based calculation in the first pillar. When this system was established, the difference between the minimum wage and the average wage in Estonia was not two and a half times as it is now. Then these salaries were relatively close, and that was also the reason why this was decided at the time. As I said, for about four years or perhaps even a little more, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs have dealt with this issue. The first option that we had at the reading provided for only one of the three components, or if it were correct, so that Taavi Kõivas would not correct me, that my tongue had been wronged, was precisely the part that only concerns pay or working time. Now we've heard the interest groups. Several organisations, such as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and others, still proposed that wages be taken into account as well, because then people are motivated to earn more wages in order to receive a higher pension. But the situation that exists now is still different. As was said at the outset, the beneficiaries of the minimum wage, who work full-time, are very large and the amounts of the first pillar of their future pension, as well as the amounts of the second pillar collected on the minimum wage, are very small and there would be a need to pay them support from the welfare system.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U241	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U242	Thank you. Good Helmen! I recall the subject of flexible retirement. Even now, if you retire later, you'll get a bonus. According to the new draft, this so-called bonus will get worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U243	Smaller, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U244	In fact, what happens is that the system gets more demotivative. And I remember that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs didn't make any comments except that they said, "Yes, that's right. ' Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U245	Thank you. The fact that retirement will be worse in this respect is due to the fact that, under the more generous system, more than 300,000 pensioners have made use of this option only a thousand.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U246	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U247	Thank you. Good waitress, that's the question. When calculating the pension, instead of introducing a new component, was the possibility of changing the basic element in order to increase solidarity also considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U248	This bill did not come from the Ministry of Social Affairs or the government. This has been discussed in the Commission, but not during the procedure for this draft. There was a question on this issue and it was answered that increasing the base is possible for everyone, but very costly and also creates a sense of inequality.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U249	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U250	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress Helmen! I don't like this whole bill, unlike the Coke who said it was good. I don't like it. And I think this discussion here has been upside down. It's just that injustice starts because we have different salaries. Does the Social Affairs Committee or the Ministry have any suggestion that we push all the salaries into one corridor, lower the higher wages, higher the lower wages, and then we don't have this discussion? However, if we find that different salaries are normal, we could also accept the idea that different pensions are normal, that people receive different pensions depending on how much they have paid social tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U251	Thank you for your question. This proposal that we raise wages to the average wage in Estonia for all people on minimum wages was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U252	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U253	Thank you. Mrs. Hunter, I wanted to ask why the increase in the base was not proposed as an alternative, but you startled me by claiming that the increase in the base would be more expensive and would exacerbate inequality. It's a complete discovery! If this came by mistake, please correct, but if you said so on purpose, something has gone very badly. But I'm going to ask two questions at a time. Why was the increase of the base part not discussed? Is the solidarity of the Estonian pension system really less than in the Nordic countries, for example, that it needs to be napped like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U254	Thank you very much for your question. Once again, the Social Affairs Committee came from the Government of the Republic of Estonia with a draft. First of all, the first option, which we discussed happily at first reading here, aimed at making the third part, which is currently only a part of the first pillar based on pay, working time-based. The Social Affairs Committee discussed this. In autumn, a new draft came from the Ministry of Social Affairs, which was not about increasing the base, but about 50:50. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this and today we have reached second reading. [[Jürgen Ligi is commenting on something in the hall.]] That's not what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U255	The debate will continue outside the hall. The fruit of Thomas.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U256	Regarding the Nordic countries, I said that nobody in the Commission asked for a comparison of how things were organised in other countries. We have had this debate with the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the second pillar. Remember, we had a joint session where there was a debate on the size of the pension. We talked about the first and second pillars in Estonia, and the third pillar was also discussed in relation to the profit and loss association.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U257	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U258	Thank you. Good Helmen! I'm sure you know it wouldn't have been the first time the Social Affairs Committee practically rewritten the bill that came from the Ministry of Social Affairs. So why reply that there was no such draft and the Commission itself could not initiate the idea that the base section could be increased. But here's my question. When I read this new regulation, I feel like no one wins. The poor will still be poorer, they will have a lower pension, and people who have ever had the hope of a higher pension will be reduced by this change in the future. So I don't know how many people are gonna win this regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U259	Thank you very much for your question. The Committee on Social Affairs has undoubtedly rewritten the drafts; no doubt all political groups and members of the Riigikogu can make proposals. No such proposals were received. As for the fact that no one wins this review is also included in the explanatory memorandum very thoroughly. But today we are paying great attention to the extent to which the pension will be as long as it continues at the same time, and how much if we go on with the new draft. There is an interesting article in Estonian Postimees about this, which also contains figures. The Ministry of Social Affairs also gave us various examples of this. So there are definitely winners. But there are also some losers.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U260	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U261	Thank you. Good Helmen! It is certainly possible to respond technocraticly that this proposal was not brought to Parliament by the government in the form of a draft, and so we did not discuss it. But it's Parliament's job to rewrite government crap sometimes. There are often wise things to come from the government, but if there's trouble, it has to be rewritten or sent back. It is clear from this draft that the motivation elements are actually getting weaker, especially when it comes to later retirement. You answered one question here before, that only a thousand people have used it. This is not an argument to go ahead with this deferred pension or to say that it is going out of the system. My question to you is very simple. If you see that Parliament has so many problems with this draft and if the government itself has submitted several different drafts, perhaps it would still be wise to interrupt the second reading today and to take time off. What's your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U262	Thank you very much. I wouldn't want to tell you, Hanno, that I'm a Commission waitress. But, unfortunately, I am. And no party represented in the Social Committee made a proposal to interrupt the reading. If this is done in the Chamber, it will be decided here by vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U263	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have just stated in your answers that this later retirement is a little motivated, about a thousand people have done so. Another idea you put forward was that we want to make a legislative amendment because we have a lot of people who will receive a minimum wage and it would make sense for their pension to be fairer in the future. After all, we are basically talking about the future several decades later when this change is starting to work. Does this actually mean that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs believe that the number of recipients of a small salary in Estonia will continue to be the same in 20 or 30 years' time that their number will be about the same as today? And how does this coincide with the overall labour policy, which must take into account the fact that our population and the number of working hands are decreasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U265	Thank you for your question. The first answer is certainly that a higher pension in the event of later retirement does not work very well as a motivator; these people have indeed been only a thousand. Yet, generous motivation should still affect it. However, people prefer to start receiving their pension as soon as the retirement age has arrived. Let's be honest. Nobody knows how long it's going to be. According to the law currently in force, it is also possible to receive a pension and pay for going to work, and the possibility of increasing your pension by later retirement has not been tempting. This thousand people are few at the generous percentages by which the pension could be higher. That's one thing. The Ministry of Social Affairs has looked ahead, analysed the data and predicted how fast the average wage in Estonia will grow. It's clear today that it's 2.5 times the difference. Whether the minimum wage is growing as fast or slower was not asked, but we can see that if next year the minimum wage is 540 euros, this year 500 euros, the increase is very small: 40 euros. The increase in average wages is certainly higher. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U266	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! Solidarity certainly has a place in every society, as well as in Estonia. But it's justified to a certain extent. If you cross the line, it could start working against the system. Today, unfortunately, in terms of overall tax evasion, we have to admit that the share of envelope wages has increased from 8% to 14%. This has been confirmed by the IRS. Doesn't such a bill of pensions entail an additional risk of paying envelope wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U267	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U268	Thank you. The fact that the share of envelope wages has increased, as you said, the honourable questioner, is true. But this was not discussed by the Social Affairs Committee. The question was whether a change could also mean that lower wages would be shown if the size of the salary no longer matter. Consequently, the first option, which would only have taken into account the part of the service, was rejected. I would like to make it clear once again that we are talking about one third of the first pillar. Now the bill has changed, seeking a compromise is offered in diagram 50: 50.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U269	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U270	Thank you. Maybe we can continue this debate that I started earlier. In fact, the Estonian pension system is very solidarity-based. I will say it, and I dare to confirm it. If you take the pension that the person receiving the minimum income receives and compare it with a pension that you receive, for example, a double or four times the average salary, you will see that those earning more pay the pension for those who receive less. Such solidarity is very firmly embedded in our system. Why do we only have a thousand people using the deferred pension? Rather, Estonia's national memory and historical burden are behind it; our working conditions have been very difficult. Now health and life at work have become even better. This pension system, which you are now introducing to us, demotivates the payment of fair pay and certainly the later retirement. If these two things are affected by negative effects, I believe that Parliament cannot approve this draft. But still, I'm looking forward to your personal opinion, too. What can you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U271	Thank you for your question. Now, if you will allow me to say my personal opinion in two words, I agree with you on this point that indeed, if a person is working 40 or 45 years for a minimum wage and someone else for an average salary, there is no doubt that injustice is greater than when they retire, as you have indicated. When you pay your pension, this injustice decreases, it's true. So much for my personal opinion. However, this question was not raised in the Commission. There were amendments tabled by the Reform Party Group, which were also voted in committee. Maris Lauri introduced them to us, and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Confederation of Employers and many others supported them. The content was that the wage component would also be included in the pension formula for the first pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U272	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! In one or even several of your responses, you mentioned that future pensions are so small for people receiving minimum wages that the state should pay them additional income support. Are the changes the government is planning not encoded with the mistake of going to break the general principle and thus trying to solve the social problems of a particular population group? Would it not be more honest to approach these issues by target group, to support those in need of support, and to allow others to benefit from their careers and salaries? I think we're ruining a lot of things. For example, the recent free bus ride actually already breaks down train traffic, reduces the number of passengers, etc. Would it not be reasonable to solve social problems through social welfare?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U274	Thank you. As far as free bus transport is concerned, this issue was not raised in the Commission. But social welfare and social benefits will solve the problems of people who need help anyway. This includes income support and targeted benefits for different municipalities. But your question was more of an opinion. I have nothing else to say about this, except that the Commission considered the many proposals that had been put forward. These discussions were such that the advantages of one solution and another were considered. The explanatory memorandum states very thoroughly what are the advantages of one solution and what are the advantages of the other solution. That is how the votes went, and I am the Commission's rapporteur here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U275	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U276	Thank you. I will continue with this issue of later pensioners or of these 1000 people. Hanno has already, in my opinion, referred to one reason why this has been the case so far. If the current retirement age wants to receive an average pension, they have had to work for 44 years and the conditions in which they have worked have simply worked themselves ill by then and count the days when they can retire. That is, in my opinion, one reason. And the second reason, of course, is that in recent years, or rather long ago, our labour market is governed by the principle that when you approach 60, it is very difficult for you to get a job and there is nothing left but retirement. It should change in the future, but if you want to change it now, we won't have more than a thousand of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U277	Thank you. It's true that when you're 60 and you're unemployed, it's hard to find a job. This is indeed the current situation. I don't know if this is gonna change. I hope it will, because there is a great need for workers and workers at all. Again, I am very sorry, but there is nothing in the Commission's minutes about this, but if the honourable questioner asked me, I will say my comment. It has also been pointed out by the Golden League that the age of 55 and 57 is as invisible as it is, it is very difficult to get them to work, despite higher education. As I said in answering one question, early retirement is either due to poor health or because of unemployment, and this draft does not change that. Yeah, that's not gonna change the bill. A person has the right to retire early, and no one else can decide for him if he does. It is stated when you can apply for early retirement if, after several years of work, it is available in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U278	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U279	Thank you. Good waitress! I am concerned about this supplementary component of pension calculation, which is now being introduced. I have raised solidarity through the base section. You did not send out this idea, but you pointed out that the Commission did not deal with it thoroughly. Wouldn't it be right to take the time off now and discuss this as an alternative? All the more so, this compromise 50: 50 is a matter of quite recent days; only today could the first serious article on this subject be seen in Postimees. This is an unnegotiated idea in the Republic of Estonia. He has been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, but the people have not. Take some time off and discuss this option as an alternative to the base section. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U280	Thank you very much, very respectable questioner Peep. If the hall makes this proposal, we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U281	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U282	Thank you. Dear waitress, I really like Peebu's proposal. But I remember one thing about your answers to Hanno, I think. You said that the injustice between the minimum wage and the average wage is greater than the injustice between pensions. Is your view of the world such that it is unfair when there is a quite large difference between the minimum wage and the average wage? I don't get it, really! One person is likely to have invested in his education, done something very necessary, produced a product with higher value added, the necessity of which you yourself emphasise in Estonia. If he gets the average salary, does he have to feel unfair to someone who hasn't done anything like that? Can it really be the view of the world that leads us forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U283	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to make it clear that, in reply to Mr Pevkur, I meant that the difference between the minimum wage and the average wage is much greater than the difference between the pensions of these people when they have retired under the current regime. When you retire, the gap decreases. Secondly, we did not discuss world-view issues in the Committee on Social Affairs. We discussed the proposals that had been put forward by the various parties, and we took some of them into consideration. In the beginning, the government came up with this on several occasions today with a draft, where one component of the first pillar was only working time-based. Today there's a 50:50 scheme on the table, which should be more suitable. The Reform Party has proposed that the situation remain the same. The Government has presented its position to the Social Affairs Committee for discussion. I have nothing else to say to you, unless we really put the worldview in the minutes of the Commission and discuss it, that is the parties to which people have stepped. Well, from the perspective of the world, they've chosen which party they're going to join.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U284	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U285	Thank you. Very respectable waitress! And this beautiful turnaround is not just because of the verbatim, but because I think so. My question is that everything has two ends. You are talking about increasing flexibility that there is an opportunity to retire early, on the one hand, society certainly has been waiting for it and many people will like it. However, I read today what entrepreneurs think about it. They, on the contrary, are rather concerned about this. Today we have said that our biggest problem in business is labour shortages, but with this possibility we will reduce the labour market. Was this nuance discussed in the Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U286	Thank you for your question. During the first debate, which took place on 29 May and where the various parties were invited, the proposals of the Reform Party were supported by employers as well as by a number of other organisations. So there was so much to talk about.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U287	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. My question relates to the word couple 'Sustainability of the pension system'. However, to what extent does this future law, if these amendments pass, strengthen the guarantee that the Estonian pension system will be sustainable? Was that what the Commission was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U289	Yes, as an initiator of the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the government has confirmed that making these changes will also ensure the sustainability of the pension system. Specifically, what one party or another means by ensuring this, however, was not mentioned in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U290	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U291	Thank you. I also find it difficult to understand that we want to motivate even more the payment of envelope wages and, at the same time, do not want to motivate people to retire later. However, we know that we have an ageing society and that we have more and more pensioners and that this is a major problem for future generations. I'd still like to know your position. Have the changes made by the Commission been sufficiently transparent and thoroughly discussed? I have seen very often here in the Riigikogu that the changes that were born at the second reading in the Commission are usually the most risky, that the biggest mistakes come in, that there is a risk of corruption, etc. You are certainly very much involved in this issue, but it seems to me that pensioners, entrepreneurs, civil society, a regular page reader, do not understand anything about what changes are planned in the pension system. Yet they concern all of us. Has this job been enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U292	Thank you very much for your question. Even before I was Minister for Social Protection, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas put pension issues on the table for discussion. The Association of Estonian Pensioners hurts the heart for their children and grandchildren. They themselves, let us be honest, are not very concerned, because they have already received their pension. This debate has been held for a very long time. I do not agree that this has not been discussed. Yes, indeed, when the Government and the Ministry of Social Affairs came up with the draft in May, the debate at our committee meeting on 29 May was long. Listening to the stakeholders came up with the view that this might not be a good solution if only the time worked is a component of the first pillar. Today's draft, which came to our tables in the autumn and the second reading of which is currently taking place, brings to the game a 50:50 scheme. I'm gonna say this for the next few times. In fact, it can always be said that more can be discussed. I am quite convinced that, in the event of a pension reform or the adoption of this law, we will still come back to this issue in ten years' time. No one is psychic, and we know what life will bring. People's work changes, jobs change. But today the bill is on the table like this. Once again, I would not be presenting my personal opinion here, because I would be violating good practice. The rapporteur from the Commission must talk about what has happened in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U293	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U294	Thank you. However, I would like to clarify whether it is true that this latest version, this most recent hybrid model, or whatever beautiful name we give it, was established in the Commission a few days ago. That seems like a very quick solution. Of course, pension issues have been discussed for years, but there is still a need to debate a specific solution before a decision is taken. I think this one's pretty fresh.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U295	Thank you very much. It is true that this solution was discussed on 6 November, 20 November and 3 December. This is an option for which a compromise has been sought on 29 May. It's not just about untying.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U296	Honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U297	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Exchange of the pension bill in the Committee on Social Affairs. There's been a change within a month, but this option, which is now on the table, became known to the public the day before yesterday. I can't tell you why this has happened, but it's true that the public has heard relatively little about the new version. What do you think of this bill? When it comes to three major changes, one of them is good. This is about raising the retirement age, which is entirely logical because life expectancy in Estonia is rising and people's health is no longer so bad. So the ability to work longer should increase. The solution that the retirement age can rise to a maximum of three months per year takes into account precisely the life expectancy, i.e. our improving living conditions, and is perfectly logical and good. In the other two changes, I do not see positivity, and our group and party share exactly the same view. When it comes to retirement, the question is that so far only a thousand people have postponed their pension. This means that the current system has not been sufficiently motivating and should therefore change it. But the bill makes it even more demotive. So it achieves completely the opposite of what should be done. Another major issue, which has also been mentioned here today, is the addition of the fourth component to the first pillar, which should make pensions more equal and raise low pensions. We are actually talking about the pensioners of the future. What do pensions depend on? Pensions depend on economic growth, depend on how many people work and what kind of pay they get. Above all, they depend on the productive work we do. Productivity, I recall, is how much goods we can produce. And these goods must also be able to sell and earn value added for them in the product of income. So if we want higher pensions, we should, above all, make an effort to increase incomes. And precisely for the growth of wages and other earnings, pensions will also be higher, because the taxes on wages will be higher. This is what we are talking about for the first pillar. There are certainly reasons why some people receive a very small pension, very different. I dare say there are people whose contribution is not misjudged. I mean, for example, those who have been at home with children for a very long time, not having three or four children, but maybe seven, maybe even more. We have a system that slightly compensates for this, but perhaps we should make this system more generous. We have people with partial employment capacity who do not receive a higher salary for objective reasons: they are not able to work very much. We should also find a solution for them that somehow alleviates their pension issue. What cannot be accepted, however, is that people receive envelope wages and declare only income close to the minimum wage and demand more back from society when they have retired. And let's be honest, there are people who work the way that happens or not at all. I don't want to pay them any more, I admit it honestly without fear. A person must be able to take responsibility for what he or she does, even if decisions taken in his or her working life are retribution to him or her at retirement age. At the moment, it is just to say that this bill is raw, it is not thoroughly thought out, as the recent discussion has shown. These solutions have not, in essence, been considered in a wider society, and that is why we could either go to the second circle with the draft or leave it aside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U298	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U299	I'd like to take some extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U300	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U301	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that in this debate, the facts must first be clarified and recalled, which is actually the first pillar of pension and how pensions are growing in Estonia. First, pension formula. The pension consists of three parts. The base part, which is equal for all, is now 175 euros and cents. So almost 40% of the first pillar of the pension is equal for all. Over time, the size of this part will increase and the proportion of this part will also increase, because it will be indexed 10% faster than the pension index and the remaining part, which I am talking about, will be indexed 10% slower than the pension index. So it's the base that's going to grow significantly faster, which is equal for everyone. Secondly, until the end of 1998, the system was in place that all the years that a person had worked gave one annual prize, i.e. 6 euros and 16 cents in today's currency. This is self-evident, because it is quite difficult to put Soviet wages in a hierarchy and even to obtain accurate wage statistics. So I think it can be accepted, at the time, this pension arrangement made sense. Since the beginning of 1999, an insurance unit has been in place, the logic of which is that people's working contributions, i.e. earned wages, are also taken into account. I stress: earned wages, just officially earned wages. A very clear change was made: incomes were taken into account, which motivated people to refuse envelope wages. There was also an important inaccuracies in the presentation by the Commission's rapporteur. It is not true that in 1999, when the pension reform was launched and the current logic was introduced, the minimum wage and the average wage were of quite the same order of magnitude. On the contrary, the minimum wage amounted to 28% of the average wage and 38% in 2018. So at that point, if the difference was about 3.6 times, then now it's about 2.6 times. So the difference is reduced in time, not increased. Second. The first draft of the Riigikogu, which started in 2007, i.e. the 1 SE, which I had the honour of defending on this board, changed the indexation of the pension in such a way that it would be as fast as possible and fit for the state. While the increase in pensions depended on an equal share of social tax receipts and price increases, from this change, which started in early 2008, until today and hopefully in the future, 80% of pension increases depend on social tax receipts and 20% on the increase. This will ensure that any person who goes to work and is paid an honest salary also contributes to the increase in pensions for current pensioners. And every wage increase, every euro that is fairly paid, will also contribute to the increase in pensions for pensioners today. I think this is a very important principle. Now, what does this bill want to change, and what makes sense and what does not? I will start with the most sensible part, which has not been the subject of a dispute, and this is a gradual increase in the retirement age. This is the only thing that actually increases pensions somewhat in the future, but the cost of this increase is later retirement. But forecasts show that we live longer and retire in a way that makes sense, it can only be possible to raise the retirement age. So I think that such a change is wise. And I am pleased that there is no very big debate here, because it would be populist to argue against this amendment. I hope no one does. Most of the other changes, however, are, in my opinion, unreasonable. The original draft proposed a complete reversal and I hope that it will not become a law in this form. If there were, this would mean that we would return to the pension arrangements in force in the last century, where a part-time person who, for example, earned a minimum wage for his part-time work would receive the same amount of pension in the first pillar as a doctor who has studied for 11 years or more before obtaining a doctor's qualification. What it's fair, tell me! How far can equality and communism go in Estonia? By the way, even in Soviet times, there was not much equality that the current government has tried to establish. Even then, society was not considered as Communist as it is now being tried. I believe that the doctor must continue to receive a higher pension from the state than the person who is working part-time and with a significantly lower salary. In particular, a doctor must receive a higher pension than the person who accepts part of his salary in an envelope. Envelope wages have increased considerably during the current government. According to expert estimates, the proportion of people receiving envelope wages in Estonia has increased from 8% to 13% over the last year and a half. This is a brutal increase: to almost 2/3 compared to the original figure! And if we make the changes that have been proposed here, there will be an even greater increase in envelope wages. And it is not only a threat to the future pensions of our people and to society's livelihood at all, but the more the envelope wages are paid in Estonia, the less the pension is received by current pensioners. And that's literally bullshit. Now for two. Two days ago, the news came to the public via online media that an excellent compromise has now been found between the parties in the eternal friendship of the coalition, who then found that we were making a hybrid. Let's do a 'no meat or fish' solution that's gonna apply to the surprise! As early as 2021. That news came two days ago, the day before yesterday! Yesterday we were able to read about the same thing in the paper, and in today's paper it was already written in more detail. Today's paper was the first comprehensive approach! But now you expect us to vote in favour, and there is no point in talking about public involvement or consultation. I would argue that in Estonia laws should not be made to allow two days to discuss changes to the pension system that affect entire generations. It just doesn't make sense. Furthermore, I believe that this change, which demotivates retirement later than the retirement age, and makes it somewhat more useful to retire earlier, does not make sense. Estonian society should rather strive to ensure that people want to work longer and have the opportunity to work longer. This bill will work when it becomes a law, exactly the opposite. So I, too, support the proposal made by Maris Lauri. The debate on this draft should continue and certainly not finish the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U302	Thank you, Javier. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U303	Mr President, I would like to ask for more time now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U304	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U305	Ladies and gentlemen, May I begin with a compliment? Draft 717 did not give rise to as much excitement in this Chamber as the draft amendment to the State Pension Insurance Act. This shows that the first pillar is better understood by the MPs, and that is understandable. But I'm starting with the fact that we should actually look at the first and second pillars together. In fact, in 1998, the amount of our pension was linked to the salary we would receive. This was then proposed by the Government of the United Party and the Rural People's Association, or KMU. The problem that there are too many wage differences in Estonia and the desire to link the pension to the salary was already then. The bill that the government then brought to the Riigikogu provided that the base part of the pension, the equivalent share for all, was 40+, I don't remember, 43% or 44% of the average salary. In the Riigikogu, this percentage decreased during the procedure of the draft. The Estonian Association of Pensioners and Families proposed to reduce this equal share to all, and it became one third. Figuratively speaking, for one third of the average pension, the pension was equal for all and the remaining two thirds depended on the salary. Later on, we have really changed this, as Mr Kõivas referred to. The problem that the pay gap is also transferred to the pension and that the future pension for small earners is too low has been known all along. This change that we made here, that we increase the base part faster, doing it actually at the expense of higher pensions, is very reasonable. The question that has now been raised here is that today's projections show that there will be a very large number of people in the future who will receive too little pension from public pension insurance and therefore need additional support. The solution was to propose an option with its own drawbacks. I say to all reform parties who have resented that these are absolutely right questions. If you think about how to alleviate this problem, I would honestly say that I think the easiest solution would be to increase the base even faster. However, this is certainly more costly than the solution proposed in the draft. Dear friends, I know that a number of governments have already prepared a draft on this issue, and in several offices these options have been discussed, in very essence. Today's debate in this Chamber has also shown that everyone has understood this problem well. The solution that has now been found is, in my opinion, completely intuitive, with nothing against it. In the end, as I understand it, it will only be implemented in 2021. I am a little sorry that perhaps the disagreements that the draft authors had with each other did not allow the Social Affairs Committee to discuss this 50-50 scheme earlier. Well, that's a real shame, but now I think this scheme is going to solve this issue. After also reviewing the table of amendments, I must say that all options or alternatives are available in the table of amendments. If, according to the law adopted in 1998, one third of the average pension was equal for all and two thirds depend on the salary, then the state pension will now be two thirds equal for all and one third dependent on the salary. But once again: the situation must not only be viewed from the point of view of the first pillar, it must also be seen in conjunction with the second pillar, which can only depend on pay. Here was the question of how things are in Finland. There is no equal share in Finland, there has never been and there will never be. There is no need for this because there are small pay differences because the state knowingly favours something called employers' and employees' agreements. These wage agreements keep the pay gap small. As we know, it would be very difficult to do this because there are few advocates of this ideology and it would be a little strange if the opponents of this ideology were to call for some other action. The fact that our pay gap is too large is a serious issue that the pension system is not responsible for. But he has to consider it. The most influential part of this draft is, in my opinion, linked to retirement age, because retirement age is fundamental in the pension system. And, in many cases, when we talk about the revenue and expenditure of the state, this must also be done on this issue. It is currently possible to go to pre-retirement and it is possible to postpone payment of the pension. There will be changes in this regard. In favour of the pensioner, it is also possible for the pre-retirement business to receive both pension and salary in the future. Unfortunately, the pensioner says that the bonus that will come in the future is not as big as it is now. In conclusion, the sum of these amounts gives the same result in terms of revenue and expenditure if it does not bring a minus to the State. However, much more important in the case of flexible retirement age is other things that have not been mentioned here today and which, for me, is the greatest charm of this bill. It is that a person is able to take out half his pension and so raise his pension. It is also that a person is able to retire and, if he or she has a job, to go to work, to give up his or her pension by then and to raise the pension he or she will receive in the future. Now, these different options and opportunities, just like this, have the pleasure and pleasure of flexibility. This makes the whole change humane, reasonable, and good. These little nuances relating to retirement sooner or later are not important to me. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think this bill is very cool. It would be necessary to finish the second reading today and certainly to vote here, as all possible alternatives are available in the table. And when the vote is taken, go to the third reading and pass the law. I think everyone agrees with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U306	Thank you, Eiki Nestor! Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U307	I could use a little more time just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U308	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U309	Ladies and gentlemen, I also add a few thoughts from my side. Today, there have been some quite reasonable statements of opinion, and many of the thoughts I have put on paper have already been said. I'm not going to go over them thoroughly. But it has been true with this bill that as soon as it came from the government to the Riigikogu, my first comment was that this is now the draft, which, when it passes through, understands the endless poverty of the entire Estonian people. There is no way to resolve the pension issue in this way. I say right from the beginning that not only does the Reform Party want to withdraw the amendments and this draft from the procedure, but I, as a political group and as a party, certainly do too. The big question of the Estonian state is not, in fact, unequal pensions, but different wages. To complain about someone getting more or less pensions of EUR 100 or EUR 100, and from someone who gets more of EUR 100, to take it away and give some of the others a little bit more, this is not a sustainable solution. Clearly, wages do not have to be equal for everyone far from it! However, the structure of wages, as has been said in this Chamber and in society as a whole, is slightly inverted. For example, I do not think it is right that the supervisors and carers who work long hours in special care with psychotic ravings and other sick people earn three or four times less for their work than the "klergs" of ministries, who sit at the table and draw boxes on paper so that people jump in there, which they never really do. What else do I want to say? It has been stressed here today that the decision of the Committee on Social Affairs was taken the day before yesterday that we will make the 50: 50 that half of the pension depends on the years worked and half of the wages earned. Well, I don't know, maybe I'll tell you some secret, but no decision or agreement was made yesterday or the day before yesterday. It was like spring... Maybe I've been getting signals from the moon, but I knew it in the spring. And since, by spring, it was clear that, in the form that we pay everyone equally, the bill would not pass, the Ministry came up with a proposal that we do the church in the middle of the village, we make a plan for half and a half, which was really now discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs in the autumn. And what's there was to accept that if there really is an accident and this bill becomes a law, it's really a little bit better if it goes through the ratio 50:50, not just the one that counts for the years. But in itself, until proven otherwise, there is still hope that we will be able to put the entire pension system in a new circle. Indeed, why do all this hastily, when there are so many differences of opinion, with very strong differences of opinion. What have my arguments been there, which I have been very forceful in my group in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the past? One argument why it does not make sense to adopt this draft as a law is that it has not been mentioned today, it is that only recently quite heated discussions about the second pillar broke out. It makes no sense for us to reform the first pillar now with the knowledge, as the Ministry has also said, that we are making the first pillar a good equal for all, and the second pillar is a great way out, which will ease the situation of well-serving and ambitious people when they are retired. After all, we have come to the understanding that the second pillar is not working normally, that there is no pension supplement, as it should be. In my opinion, several factions in the Riigikogu have unfortunately not been included in the reform party, which is in favour of the fact that the reform of the second pillar must be taken seriously. I have said so many times in the Committee on Social Affairs: we know that there is a discussion in Estonia, that we actually have a public social order to discuss the issues of the second pillar and make a sensible decision. The second and first pillars should be on the table at once. Right now, against the elections, start repairing the first pillar by running and say cynically that the second pillar will give you the money that you are giving away according to the bill, it just seems abnormal. And the final argument. We have the Development Monitoring Centre, we have all kinds of research companies, Praxis, and so on, who are talking about the future work from morning to night. Our universities are working on it, the whole world is working on it. We should be able to anticipate enough to make decisions by 2060. What happens if the work of the future is that people maybe 10 years from now will not work like this? Why are we cementing pension schemes for future pensioners on the basis of some kind of global vision of the day before, if we do not have a social agreement, political agreement or any clarity about what we are doing? I will now conclude with the assurance that my position is that we are taking this matter back to the debate. That would be the only sensible decision to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U310	Thank you, Tiina Kangro! Marika Tuus-Laul, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U311	Ladies and gentlemen, That the pension system needs to be changed, I think all political parties think. I believe that the proposed system is more or less normal and certainly more solidarity. It expressed the view that the system was becoming more unequal. Not at all! This system, which we introduced in the turn of the century, you know how much we talk about in meetings with voters, why low-paid people have to work for several years to get full of this coefficient 1. It's a simple example. Of course, we are saying that this means an insurance unit, means how much someone has paid social tax, but it is simply a year of work in the common languages. We know that at that time this system was introduced, that if the social tax has been paid on average on wages, that coefficient is 1, and if it has been paid on a lower salary, then the coefficient is lower. The question is that 3/4 of the people of Estonia receive less than average wages. So, to put it mildly, the system has fallen behind and does not motivate low-paid people. It needs to be changed. As for the draft, which was in this debate in the spring, I said already then that I do not consider it right to equalise pensions in such a way as to make only the first pillar for everyone. Of course, this uniform base remains. The common base and years of seniority were taken into account until 1998, but if we had established the system only for the years of work, that would really mean that Professor and Ditcher or janitor, of course, I wouldn't disparage these professions, I would have received the same amount of pension. In my opinion, this would also have been very bad in the sense that the share of envelope wages would probably have increased very sharply, because it would no longer have been necessary to take into account the size of the salary. The pension would only be calculated on a retirement basis, people would have shown no matter how small a salary, and everything would have been fine. And the third factor, of course, is education. You think for yourself if there were only a retirement-based accounting! The person goes to work immediately after graduating from comprehensive school and begins receiving a pension equal to all. Then there's no point in studying at all. Those things didn't really go. In this sense, there is still a better system in place. The first pillar, of course, comes the base and 50% is counted as a retirement and 50% as a salary. This latter should also satisfy the Reform Party. At the same time, it is very good that we are considering our career. In the case of a minimum salary, you will also receive a single year of seniority. So, in my opinion, this system is better and the current system simply cannot continue. The party representing the one view of the world speaks a great deal about the contribution to work and, in doing so, only takes into account the earned wages. Indeed, it is a very different view of the world if the contribution to work is calculated only by the size of the salary. We believe that, for example, a nurse who earns a small salary contributes as much as a very well-earned worker, yet the nurse receives a very small pension. That's very unfair. All work is necessary and must be valued. As far as pension policy is concerned, I think that this system, too, will not bring about very good pensions. In addition to this system of coefficients, we must also contribute to an extraordinary increase in pensions in order to get a little closer to Greek and other European pensions, for example. Experience shows that this will allow us to move a little further with pensions, and the indexation system will not succeed so quickly. So I think the emergency pension increase is right. Even if we hadn't made an extraordinary leap 10 to 12 years ago, pensions would now be much lower. And now, since the second pillar was also mentioned here, I was not going to talk about it, I say that when we moved to the three-pillar system at the turn of the century, we followed the pension system proposed by the World Bank, which was recommended for the former socialist countries. But when Estonia implemented it, the World Bank said at the time that this system had failed in Chile and anywhere else. It was not recommended at the time, but we still applied it. It is now clear to everyone that this second pillar simply fills the pockets of the fund managers we have seen it. We're gonna change him a little bit in this hall, but is it gonna do any good? Still, the fact that a person contributes 2% and the state puts it as if at 4%. But let's see where this 4% comes from, let's discuss where the 4% comes from! I guess it's coming from the same social security tax. That is the case now, and the return on our funds is very poor. The Czech Republic and Egypt are worse than us, everyone else is ahead of us. At the same time, I think that if we set it at 50: 50, the system will be more solidarity-based and will not take away any motivation from those who receive a good salary. So it really should be a compromise. So come along, let's do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U312	Valdo Randpere, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U313	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! Marika, what you said took away your motivation not to give a speech, but to strive for a higher pension. We have tended to start certain presentations by saying that there is one very good draft before you, support it and vote in favour of it. That cannot be said of this current draft. This is one very bad draft that has been made a little less bad because of the compromise you mentioned. But it's still not a good bill, it's just less bad. Several things have been said here today. I and others, as the round of questions turned out, are, above all, disturbed by this 50: 50 distribution and its amendment at all. I really liked what Tiina Kangro said, except that she said there were no supporters in the Reform Party to the idea that the first and second pillars should be looked at together. Tiina knows very well that we have discussed this together under the back window and that we think they should be analysed together. Right now, I'm making sure there's no paternals on the right side of this hall. I don't understand how they want this bill to pass through here. At the same time, they are currently making some kind of scary campaign on the issue of eliminating the second pillar, and all the protection of this bill is based on the argument that what you lose in the first pillar will win back with the second pillar. Well, if you want to lose the second pillar, what the hell am I gonna win with the first pillar change? Then I won't win anything at all! So it makes no sense to me, and I'd like to see that the Fatherland gets together in the last few seconds and shows that the Fatherland does not kneel or break and is eternal and the pension is eternal. And that they come into this room and vote to interrupt the second reading of the bill. Let's think about it and make it better! Maybe he'll end up no less bad, but a good bill. The main complaint I still have is that we have come from a society where it has always been said that the janitor and the director are equal, see that in fact the janitor is better than the director, because he is proletarian. They said different salaries were unfair, and whatever. It's not working! In a market economy, every employer pays people as little as possible and as much as necessary. Wages are unequal, but they are not unfair. Wages actually reflect a person's own contribution to the fact that he has reached a certain grade. It can't be a model for me to earn very little pay and then I'll retire to paradise. Unfortunately, if you earn little pay, pay little social tax, your pension will be lower and must be smaller than the one who has earned more wages and paid more social tax. But now I'm taking the opportunity that has opened up because Eiki Nestor, who came here to speak, went behind me in the meantime and now he can't argue with me, even if I name him. Eiki said that Finland has a good system. The country has made the pay gap small, there is a party and a reed. Maybe that's it. However, if we compare Finland and Sweden, it could be said that the pay gap in Finland has not increased very much in the last 20 years, but the pay gap has increased in Sweden. And there are very serious theorists, who have also been written by Finns themselves, who claim that the growth of the Swedish pay gap has contributed to the Swedish economy's growth much faster than that of Finland. Capital withdrawal has been made easier, people have been able to make better use of their income. Let us now think that the purpose of the bill is to re-alter this poverty a little bit, to thinn up and evener this layer of pâté rather than to think about how our overall wealth could grow, how we could share wealth around. I also find that the pensions in Estonia are too low - I completely agree with that. I think that we could move in that direction so that all Estonian people would receive 50% of their salary when they retired, but precisely 50% of the salary they earned, not 50% of the salary earned by someone else who contributed much more to his higher salary, who contributed more to his education, did higher-skilled and higher value-added work. That's all I had to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U314	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U315	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief, a lot of the right things have been said. I am simply trying to analyse the political message that we in Parliament should give to Estonian society. And the message we're giving today is that we're ready to take back something that doesn't make our lives any better. Yet, it is easy to ask yourself such a question, wondering if you can answer yes or no. If, in the case of this draft, we ask whether the proposal that we have on the table increases or reduces the motivation for legal pay, then the answer is that it will. If I ask the following question, whether the proposal before us increases or reduces the motivation to stay longer on the labour market, then... the answer is: reduces. [[???Keegi saalist ütleb: 'Vähendab.'???]] Right! (Someone cries out: "Right! ') And even these two questions are actually enough to understand that we should not adopt this bill and stop reading the second one today. We do not have a purely technical opportunity to do anything with this draft today but to stop reading it. Basically speaking here, that became more or less a normal solution, the church became in the middle of the village solution, no listen, that is not what the Estonian Parliament should say! We tried, well, more or less came out, let's get it! This shouldn't be our way. We can say today that if the solution is not ready, we will not accept it in this Chamber. And this solution is not ready. However, if only the part of this draft remains concerning the flexible retirement age, this is a completely acceptable solution. Let us do something for which there is a compromise and an agreement! But let's not throw up something really scary, let's not go somewhere halfway and say, "Now everybody's got something. " That is not the way to make legislation, really. That's all I want to say. Still, one more thought. This diagram 50: 50. Why 50:50? How about 70:30? Or 40: 60? The analysis carried out is weak, to put it mildly. With a joke in half: maybe 50:60? This is not a mature solution, and there is only one option for this immature solution: now stop reading. If a mature solution is reached during this membership, we will certainly be able to adopt the law. If not, a new Parliament will have to be expected. But to do as Valdo and others said that we would spread this layer of pâté even thinner, it's not right. Pension growth can still come because our prosperity in the country as a whole is growing. When people's wealth grows, you can talk about pension growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U316	There is no further wish for negotiations, I will conclude the negotiations. 28 amendments have been tabled for bill 613; we will examine them. Proposal No 1, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, fully taken into account. Proposal No 2, tabled by the Group of the Free Party, has not been taken into account and is not to be voted on under § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Proposal No 3, tabled by the Free Party Group, taken into account in substance. Proposal No 4, tabled by the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. Proposal No 5, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, fully taken into account. Proposal No 6, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, fully taken into account. Proposal No 7, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, fully taken into account. Proposal No 8, tabled by the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and is not to be voted on. Proposal No 9, tabled by the Reform Party Group, excluded. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U317	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U318	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 27 votes in favour, 38 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 10, tabled by the Reform Party Group, fully taken into account. Proposal No 11, tabled by the Reform Party Group, excluded. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U319	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U320	Got it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 26, 38 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, has not been taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U321	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U322	Okay, let's do it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 12 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. Result: by 26, against 38, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 13 from the Group of the Reform Party, the lead committee, has been rejected. Amendment 14 from the Reform Party Group, the lead committee has taken full account of it. 15th, proposed by the Committee on Social Affairs, fully taken into account. 16, the Social Affairs Committee's proposal, fully taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U323	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U324	Proposal No 16? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 16, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. For 35, against 26, no abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 17 from the Reform Party Group, fully taken into account. Amendment 18 from the Reform Party Group, not taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U325	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U326	Got it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 18 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 27 votes in favour, 38 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 19 from the Social Committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 20 from the Social Committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 21 from the Social Committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 22 from the Social Committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 23 from the Social Committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 24 from the Social Committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 25 from the Social Committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 26 from the Social Committee, fully taken into account, Amendment 27 from the Social Committee, fully taken into account. Amendment 28 from the Social Committee, fully taken into account. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U327	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I propose that we stop reading this bad draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U328	I would also like to ask for a proposal in writing, which we are still collecting. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the Reform Party Group 613, to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the National Pension Insurance Act and the related amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote. There were 27 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 40 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 613 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U329	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy (714 SE), initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs is Aivar Kokk, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U330	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 13 and 19 November the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft Act amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Reno Paju, Head of the Office for Direct Payments of the Rural Land Use Policy Department, and Mari-Liis Kivipõld, Head of the Legal Department, were also invited. The Commission took four consensual decisions: a proposal to put a draft of 714 on the plenary agenda by 5 December, to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, to refer the draft to third reading by 12 December and to propose a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U331	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The second reading of Bill 714 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U332	Second reading of the draft Act on Breeding of Farm Animals (715 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs is again Aivar Kokk, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U333	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 13 and 20 November, the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law on breeding of farm animals initiated by the Government of the Republic. Advisor to the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs Sirje Jalakas and adviser to the Legal Department Diana Rammul, Deputy Director General of the Veterinary and Food Board Katrin Reili, President of the Estonian Animal Farming Association Olev Saveli, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Breeders' Association Tanel Bulitko, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Horse Farming Association Imre Sams and Acting Director Krista Sepp, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Sports Horse Raising Association Raigo Kollom, Chairman of the Kihnu Rural Farming Society Anneli Ämpalu-Idvand, Chairman of the Management Board of the NPO Van-Tori Horse Society Ute Wohlrab. Various proposals were discussed and some amendments were made. The consensus decided to place a draft of 715 on the plenary agenda by 5 December, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to the third reading by 12 December and to propose a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U334	Questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Aivar Chef! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The second reading of bill 715 is complete. Sorry, it's not over! I did not notice that there were also two amendments to the draft: the first, the second. There is no vote, the second reading of bill 715 is closed. I'm sorry again!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U335	Second reading of the draft law amending the law on the release of genetically modified organisms and the Law on the amendment of the Law on Plant Protection (681 SE), initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Committee on Rural Affairs is again Aivar Kokk, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U336	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 5, 19 and 20 November, the Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law on the release of genetically modified organisms into the environment and the amendment of the Law on Plant Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. In the course of the debate, we also made some amendments, and by consensus it was decided to put this draft on the agenda of the meeting on 5 December, to propose that the second reading of draft 681 be stopped, and when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to third reading by 12 December and to propose a final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U337	Any questions? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The amendments are two: the first, the second. The second reading of Bill 681 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U338	Our 19th item is the presentation on 'Following the fundamentals of sport policy until 2030'. The rapporteur is Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture. I remind you, good members of the Riigikogu, of the procedure: the presentation of the Minister of Culture for up to 30 minutes and then the questions to the Minister. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question. Then there are negotiations involving representatives of the political groups. Please, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U339	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Vice President of the Olympic Committee! Good sports friends! To begin with, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome you to the sporting organisations of the disabled, with whom we have just taken stock of the year at the joint event. We have jointly recognised that people with special needs must be guaranteed that the attitudes of society, the living environment and the sport infrastructure enable them to be even more physically active. I am very pleased that, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and in excellent cooperation with the Estonian Paralympics Committee and the Estonian Association of Special Olympics, we have come to the conclusion that next year the Ministry of Culture will be the main partner of sports organisations for people with disabilities. Today's perceptions suggest that temperate sport should be a natural part of sport and that its activities should be closely linked to sub-unions and umbrella organisations. There is an additional reason to be happy, as there is also an increase in the resources allocated to the sector from the state budget. Next year, the annual support will increase more than twice, i.e. by EUR 400000 and by another EUR 200000. All this so that people with disabilities will have better opportunities to participate in sport and represent Estonia with dignity in international competitions. At this point, I would like to thank you once again for having taken the decision last year to increase the monthly support of the Olympic winners nearly twice and to link this increase to an increase in the average wage, and after some discussion, you have withdrawn just as much support for the Paralympic winners. The heroes who have brought honour and fame to Estonia must be recognised and treated equally. Dear Riigikogu! The wisdom of the Estonian people tells us that you reap what you sow. Together with several of you, good members of the Riigikogu, I was one of those ambassadors who also belonged to the previous Riigikogu and who, as one of their last decisions, adopted the fundamentals of sport policy in February 2015. It has been an honour for me to establish with you the practice of presenting every year to the Riigikogu a report approved by the government, which must be presented by the Minister of Culture and which will be the subject of a debate in the large Chamber. Therefore, by presenting the report, let me not just focus on the last year, but give some insight into the whole period. Our report could be summarised briefly in such a way as to increase well: grants to sports federations, numbers of participants and medals, income from sports clubs and organisations, taxes paid on labour, investments by the state and local authorities in sports objects, number of sports objects, grants to organisers, etc. For some indicators there has also been a fallback in a given year, but the trend is predominantly upward. However, I would like to highlight two burning issues where important changes are needed: the habits of our children's movements and the Olympic medals. Both of them are things with a long cock, of course, but they need to be dealt with now and now. I come to more concrete proposals and solutions in the final part of my speech. Good listeners! If we ask what has been the most time-consuming and difficult task that we have committed to in these years together with our good partners, it is undoubtedly to make the system for financing sport more transparent, fairer and clearer. The field of work has been wide. Here are just a few examples. As you know, state budget resources are distributed among sports federations in accordance with the agreed criteria laid down in the Ministerial Regulation. To my great surprise, when I arrived at the Ministry, I discovered that the regulation that had already been in force since 2012 had not yet been complied with in 2015. Today, in cooperation with the agencies, we have improved the criteria, significantly increased the resources allocated to them and distributed grants throughout the years in accordance with the current regulation. This will ensure that the system is transparent, predictable and motivating. Your decision to terminate next year's Gambling Tax Council will also help to clarify the financing system. For sport organisations this means significantly less administrative burden, less bureaucracy, simplified reporting and clearer accountability. It is no longer necessary to submit the same application to three organisations or bodies. The Estonian Cultural Endowment will be the main source of support for the projects of sports clubs and recreation. The task of the Ministry of Culture will be to support the organisation of important international competitions in Estonia and to grant operating grants to umbrella organisations. Another bearded problem that we were able to solve concerns the ball game teams. For years, access to the final tournament of the title competitions was a punishment, as the Union was faced with unexpected and high additional costs in the middle of the year, which had to be covered by the goodwill of politicians. In its own way, 2009 has gone into the history of sport, when the government refused to allocate funds from the budget reserve to the volleyball team that reached the European Championship finals. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip explained that the country's great contribution to sport was a phenomenon of totalitarian regimes. Indeed, public sector support for sports federations has continued to grow and the impact of the setback caused by the economic difficulties and political attitudes of 2009 has been overcome over the last few years. I can assure you that this has happened precisely because Estonia follows the European model of the organisation of sport, where sport is decentralised and where sport is at the heart of sport movement. We have increasingly taken the example of the Nordic countries and have built our sports system in accordance with these principles. Without public support, this would not be possible. So we created a flexible and clear system to solve the concerns of the teams: the state budget has booked a line from which each of the final tournament teams can apply for up to EUR 200000 of support. This gave the teams confidence that playing well will enable them to drive to represent Estonia and give our sports friends the opportunity to participate in the international arena for our athletes. Equally, or perhaps even somewhat more, sports friends are delighted that international competitions are increasingly being brought home. Our competition organisers have been able to demonstrate a good level and we have been positive in the world. This is why they want to come here to compete and live with their favourites, which brings both honour and fame to Estonia and tax revenue to the Treasury. Unfortunately, many of the major events planned in previous years have been cancelled because there has been no assurance that the costs and benefits will still come back to normal. In order to address this concern, we have launched an action to support international events, where the estimated additional tax revenue received by the State as a result of the event is at least equal to one-and-a-half times the amount of support. For example, 780 foreign competitors participated in the European Triathlon Championship and 1500 spectators arrived from abroad, who spent an average of five nights in Estonia. According to the Estonian Institute of Economics, these foreigners spent a total of approximately 1.8 million euros in Estonia and thus brought significant tax revenue to the state. This year, up to EUR 2 million was earmarked for such major projects. In addition to the triathlon, Rally Estonia, Ironman, Tallinn, and the EM of Kurling were supported. We have already decided to support the cross-country skiing MK phase in Otepää next January. Finally, I would like to say a few more words about the remuneration of coaches and judges and social guarantees for athletes. Coaches are key players in the field, whose activities have a much wider impact than sport alone. A good coach can make young people respect the principles of fair play and thus shape values for life. That is why it is important to ensure that coaches are valued in society and receive a decent reward for their work. While the scheme for supporting the remuneration of young trainers, which was launched in 2015, guaranteed a full-time higher category coach a gross fee of at least EUR 582, the minimum wage will be EUR 1000 per month from next year. My conviction is that highly qualified youth coaches deserve at least the average wage in Estonia, and I hope that the Minister of Culture who takes office after the elections will also take it to heart. This year we also took a major step to recognise the work of sports judges and to pay them correctly. First, we now allocate half a million euros each year to the organisers of the Estonian title competitions to pay the fees of judges. Secondly, we will ensure the reimbursement of tax-free expenses of EUR 1040 per year for those who do judicial work in a hobby. In the past, compensation for the costs associated with the work of voluntary judges was rather tedious, with high administrative burdens and tax risks. The next step is to increase the social guarantees for athletes, for which we have developed amendments to the Sport Act. During the discussion of the bill, we can discuss this issue in greater depth in the Riigikogu, but the aim is briefly to create a legal basis for supporting athletes and to facilitate the transition from scholarships to employment contracts. These changes are also reflected in the objective of making the system for financing sport more transparent, fairer and clearer. Good Riigikogu! A little more than a year ago, a support system for youth interest activities is being implemented to ensure that every Estonian schoolchildren have the opportunity to participate in the activities of interest. Based on preliminary data, one fifth of the EUR 15 million earmarked for this purpose has been used directly in the field of sport. This is complemented by many other activities of interest that include active movement. Not only good health but also survival skills will ensure a new compulsory swimming initial learning program. To remind you that the aim of the programme is to create opportunities for all children who have passed the third grade to perform the following task: 'Dump into deep water. Swim 100 meters to the chest, dive, and get an item from the bottom. Rest on the surface of the water by changing positions for three minutes, swim back 100 metres in a supine position and exit the water. " Those adults who can't handle this exercise might think about going to practice. This year is also an additional opportunity. In particular, employers who care about their employees can pay up to EUR 400 per year for their employees' health costs, free of tax. Of course, it is not just for access to the pool; it can also be used to pay, for example, the membership fee of a sports club and the fee for participating in a public sports event. We also agreed to launch a programme to support regional fitness centres next year. Its aim is to ensure that every county has at least one modern open-air sports centre to give people even more opportunities to engage in exercise. In order to implement the programme, the government decided to grant a total of EUR 2.4 million for a period of four years, i.e. EUR 40000 per county per year. In a few years' time, there should not be a county in Estonia where, for example, art snow is not produced. Now, if you've been looking out of the window looking at this typical winter world for us lately, there's a very high risk that without the art scenes, many growing generations will not learn to ski at all. But for this Estonians, falling into the past of the traditional way of movement would be a painful loss from both the point of view of sport and culture. Once we have reached investment, of course, we must mention the Käärku sport base, where the construction works are carried out. Remindered by the scepticism that if anyone comes to Kääriku, the complex will be completed with all facilities and a sports medicine centre for 12 million euros. The reality is that by the summer of 2020, more than half of all places have already been booked and, in seven years' time, a third of the places have been booked in July 2025. Construction works are also carried out at Pärnu Rääma rowing base and Tallinn Kalevi Stadium. Speaking of new investments, I would like to mention the Hiiumaa sports building, the construction of which has been foreseen by the government in the state budget for the following year at 2.9 million euros. It is important for us to be able to engage in sport anywhere in Estonia. Hiiumaa is the only county with no modern sports hall. Honourable Riigikogu! 'A moving school' and Team Estonia are two keywords, in which I would like you to take them with you from my presentation, because these are the solutions to the two major challenges that we face. The fundamentals of sport policy set a target for at least 2/3 of the population to engage in mobility activities by 2030. In order to achieve this goal, we need to focus even more on young people and children. Deficient mobility habits in childhood are very strong in relation to a low - active lifestyle in adulthood. I'm paraphrasing a well-known proverb: 'If Juku doesn't move, Juhan won't do it for a long time. And if he does, not always in the most reasonable and healthful way. ' Studies show that more than half of young people aged 5 to 19 attend regular practice, but unfortunately only 20% of the recommended mobility rate, i.e. moving for at least 60 minutes each day. We must therefore look for new and proven ways of bringing more movement into children's days in other countries. Physical education and exercise alone are not enough, as the numbers show. There is a need for natural and everyday mobility, which extends to school lessons and recesses, the school way and free time. Every child in Estonia must have a healthy development environment and the possibility of getting good mobility habits from school. Therefore, I propose that the implementation of the ideas of the mobility lab programme "Invitation School" of the University of Tartu be our common priority in the coming years, which schools and sports organisations, parents and schoolchildren, the state and municipalities are struggling to achieve. If we are able to make all Estonian schools move, we will also learn to spend more time with children as parents, and the state and municipalities will continue to invest in health trails, light traffic routes and sports infrastructure, then I believe that we will achieve the target set. And practice shows that its impact is much wider than just increasing the exercise. Last month, I had the opportunity to get acquainted with the results of the Icelandic national public sector-led sports, exercise and recreational activities programme. While in 1998 42% of young people aged 15 to 16 replied that they had been drunk at least once in the last month, this year they had only 7%. And that level was reached five years ago. During the same period, the number of daily tobacco users fell from 27% to 5% and the number of people who had ever tried cannabis from 17% to 6%. Such major changes were possible due to the fact that the common objective was in place, cooperation was cross-cutting and research-based monitoring and analysis enabled the programme to make the necessary changes on a regular basis. Iceland also provides us with examples of top sports. The success of these football and handball teams is proof that a small country can get far. In order to enable young athletes with high potential to reach the podium and bring medals to Estonia, we have decided, in cooperation with the Estonian Olympic Committee, to launch a new initiative called Team Estonia. It would be very nice if someone could find a good Estonian counterpart for it, but this is the keyword right now. Team Estonia differs from the current financing model in that it can support the development of concrete hopes for the future. Talented young athletes, future Kelly Sildarud, Gerd Kanters and Ott Thanks, will be able to focus on sports. Each athlete receives a specific solution based on his/her needs, ranging from training opportunities to support sports medicine. The aim is to ensure the same level of training and competition conditions as competitors from other countries who demand medals. For the next four years, we have found EUR 8 million to launch Team Estonia. It is clear that these resources will have to grow in the future, but the seed has been soiled. All the more so that in the future we can be proud of our people, our country, when blue black and white rise to the top of the mast and the Estonian anthem plays as the background. As always, of course there is another side to the medal. The success of our top athletes in international major competitions helps to increase the interest of many people in sports. After all, we want us to have inspirational examples of those to look up to. The sports historian Reino Sepp writes in 'Estonian Sports Lexikon', published in Sweden in 1951: 'The rapid development of Estonian sport, with great significance, was the rise of several athletes to the best in the world, before all the great achievements of Georg Lurich. By his example, Lurich, who won almost an idolatrous position among the people, especially in young people, opened up a real interest in sports. " The story of Lurich is the first success stories of Estonians, an excellent example of the symbiosis of will, determination and intelligence. One of the world's champions, one of Europe's most victorious professional wrestlers, spokespersons for sport and healthy lifestyles, creators, pioneers, cheerleaders, teachers, grew out of a boy with a weak build freed from gymnastics. Thank you very much for your cooperation and your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U340	Thank you, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar, for your athletic presentation. Questions for the Minister. Let me remind you that it is possible to ask a question. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U341	Thank you. Minister, first of all, I congratulate you on your attention to and opportunities for parasports. But I have a question about the measure to support international cultural and sporting events. They must certainly bring back one-and-a-half tax revenues. I have a question that gives their organisers the conviction that this tax revenue will definitely come back. And what happens to them when they have miscalculated, perhaps when they have received support, but the tax revenue does not come together? What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U342	The assurance should be given that they will check several times whether this forecast they have made is not too optimistic. Just as with any budget and forecasting, I always suggest you be more careful. After all, no one can give any certainty to any entrepreneur. After all, in a way, they are all entrepreneurs when they undertake such an undertaking. It's a risk they take. If they fail to fulfill what they have promised, they will have to repay the money or at least the part that is below what they predicted.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U343	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U344	Thank you. I was curious to see the list of investments to be made. Unfortunately, I must say that there was no sports complex in Ida-Virumaa. I have a question for you, Minister, how do you see that things are moving into the former sports complex of Aidu's career. When is it possible that the time will come when we will see international competitions there?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U345	Thank you for your question. First of all, I may be a little wrong now, but I think the size of the state's investment in Aidu's fitness centre is 4 million euros or something. It will be invested there, I think, through a measure to support regional competitiveness. This is all public money, and it is the decision of the state to invest in it. And I think it's a very worthwhile venture to invest in. As regards the development of this place of international events, before the decision to invest in Rääma sports base was born, we had a thorough consultation with both the Estonian Olympic Committee and the Estonian Rowing Federation. Their conviction was that in view of the fact that we have both coaches and post-growth in Pärnu, and this has been the case for decades, with estimated half of the Estonian rowing medals coming from Pärnu, Pärnu is a priority when it comes to building such a training base. But I hope that the investments made in Aidu will provide this base so that international competitions will be there in the future. We know that there are no international competitions on the Pärnu River, however, because there is too much power. Help is definitely a better place to do that. The problem is that Aid's career is now in the middle of a relatively empty area where there are not too many potential enthusiasts or coaches. Those who are in Ida-Virumaa are primarily active in Narva, which the state has also invested in re-establishing the rowing base. But in Ida-Virumaa, in cooperation with the Health Tracks SA, we have been systematically investing in the health trails of Pähklimäe for two years now and I see no reason why Ida-Virumaa should not receive EUR 40000 in all subsequent years. So Ida-Viru County receives investment money systemically from other sources.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U346	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U347	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! I'm going to ask you a little bit simpler, but maybe a more complicated subject, namely school sports. 'A school calling for a move' is definitely the right way. Since we have the 2030 view, I ask your opinion about the relationship between physical education and mobility education and the thoughts of the University of Tartu that maybe we should stop physical education based on certain standards and talk only about mobility education. Aren't you worried? At least I am concerned that we will no longer have the future Canters or Kirte, because the young people's contact with more specific sports, such as disk drives or cheap ones, may not be possible if we only have mobility education. Why don't you philosophize a little on the subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U348	Now, if I'm getting this right, next year, we're gonna have mobility education, not physical education. I guess that's the deal, and neither does mobility training mean that children are not taught different disciplines. In what is the best way to motivate children, I would trust experts. After all, all this has been born in cooperation with universities, the Ministry of Education and people in the field. The fact that some are more conservative and think that it should continue to be called physical education is also a natural phenomenon in society. It seems to me, however, that the conviction that it could go on with the modern version and call it a movement lesson has been progressively expanded. But when we talk about Gerd Kanteers, thanks to the additional interest support system, the opportunities for participation in exercises have been increasing. As I said in my report, we generally have concerns about the recommended movement during the day. The fact that children do not practice is not the biggest concern at all because more than half of the children attend regular training. And when they commit to something, they do it first and foremost in practice, not in gym class. Yeah, in gym class, they should be exposed elementary. I was talking about skiing, too. It's not like kekaõps can make snow. We need to go a little bit wider to help him get that snow somewhere, and a keka teacher or a movement teacher, whatever that name is, would have someplace to go. The fact that a child is exposed to basic athletics, gymnastics, ball games remains in these programs anyway, and no one throws them out of there.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U349	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U350	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your review. In the Committee on Culture, we still had a number of questions on this issue. My question to you now is precisely the availability of existing sport infrastructure. Have we achieved almost this beautiful goal that we no longer have padlocks and that all existing sports facilities are available in the evening and during free time? Are we past the padlocks all over the place now?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U351	I do not have adequate statistics on this issue. I can only reflect how I perceive the attitude of society. For example, when we talk about 'The School inviting you to move', one of its principles is that schools need to be critically transferred: all places where you can move must be open and used at all times. But the way someone feels about his or her sports facility depends not only on social attitudes but also on the organisation or person responsible for it. So I can't say here that there are no padlocks anywhere, I'm sure there are somewhere. I hope that we will be able to see more and more that, after the great investment has been made in order to keep these sports facilities in order, this is a small part of the effort, in any case, to make maximum use of these existing facilities. As far as the number of sports facilities is concerned, there will be more. Like I said, it's growing well. The number of sports facilities is also rising all the time, with more coming every year. We can count almost 3,300 sports facilities by now.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U352	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! The report shows that the SPIN programme, which operates under the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, has good results, and it is said that it will continue. But the question is that according to this programme, only certain cities are operating: in Tallinn districts, Kohtla-Järve, Narva and Tartu. Is it also foreseen to expand elsewhere, or is there only action in these areas? Suddenly, there is no need to expand to other places.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U354	There is certainly a need, and there are other regions. But the prerequisite for expanding this SPIN programme is that the local government itself has an active interest and is willing to contribute to it. I don't know exactly how to comment on that. We've been talking to these people in the SPIN program, getting up to speed on what they're doing and trying to think with them. However, this funding does indeed go through other channels and, above all, the question is whether the local authority shows sufficient interest that there is a reason to enter into a contract or not. I very much hope that there will be more programmes like this, because there will certainly be a need for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U355	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U356	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We have read in your comprehensive report that there has been an increase in the number of sports clubs and amateurs operating in recent years, and this is very, very positive. When you answered Krista Aru's question of accessibility, I was, of course, expecting an answer to the other side of accessibility. I'm thinking of access to the sports facilities we're gaining. Why is that important? As among ordinary athletes and traditional enthusiasts, new areas are increasingly being dealt with among temperate athletes. But it requires access, whether it's power-lifting, archery, curling, streaking, or something else. Perhaps I am already asking my relatively traditional question: what about accessibility, namely physical accessibility? Is there a growth trend here or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U357	However, I do not have sufficient statistics on this once again so that I can state something on the basis of fact. I very much hope that the new level of cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and temperate sports organisations will also help to move forward systematically here. We should not only take into account the need to access sports facilities in a wheelchair, which is a primary issue and which society in general can already perceive and notice, but also that the same people who are in a wheelchair or who have some other special needs can actually participate, not only in the building. I think we have a lot to learn about and a lot of room for improvement. It must work together in a number of areas, because sport may not naturally have this competence, but para-sport organisations can bring this competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U358	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U359	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! It will certainly be very appreciated if the current government continues to develop the coach pay system and strives to raise its value in society as high as the teachers do. It's very important. But I think this 'Estonian fundamentals of sports policy' has certainly failed if we are not able to increase the natural movement significantly. It is also worrying that young people and children are little exposed to fresh air. I didn't notice in your report what they're talking about more and more. This is linked to the possible use of doping at public sports events that should not actually interact with each other. But if we look at the level of public sports events, this is, in some experts' opinion, worrying. Has it been under discussion that when we are talking about health and clean sport, there should also be a resource for monitoring?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U360	With regard to pure sport and the financing of Estonian Anti-Doping, we have put additional resources there every year. This number will also increase somewhat next year. I can't remember it by heart, and since you can't just shout in the Riigikogu Hall, the Vice Chancellor can't call out to me exactly what the number is. But this issue certainly needs to be addressed. On the other hand, of course, as I paraphrased the old saying in my speech, that what Juku doesn't learn is that Juhan doesn't know, and if Juku doesn't move, why should Juhan move? And if he moves, maybe not the smartest. Perhaps one problem is that if attitudes have not been adequately developed in childhood, at some age it is no longer understood that the primary goal of an amateur athlete should be to act for his health. Any use of doping will certainly work in the opposite direction, and the risks associated with it could have been clarified since childhood. I think it's very important. Now, if you imagine that we're going to be conducting doping checks at all public sports events, it wouldn't only be enormously resource-intensive, but would ultimately be quite absurd.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U361	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U362	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Minister, I would first of all like to thank you for the work that has been done in the development of sport, especially the team that you have and who does this work every day. Of course, it is very important that the state continues to develop regional fitness centres and that 2.4 million are planned to contribute to these centres. It's been said that there could be two such centers in every county. My question is a little specific. In Põlva County there were such centres in Mamastes and Värska in Setumaa and in Kubija and Haanja in Võru County. Now, after the administrative reform, when Setumaa went to Võrumaa, there are three centres in Võrumaa, but there is only enough funding for two. Do you have any ideas on how to deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U363	Yes, Võrumaa's men have been concerned about this and complained about the fact that, since their county borders have been changed, they have been treated unequally. As far as I know, they also went to the Ministry yesterday to meet with officials and think about how to proceed. I realized that after this meeting, they'd be optimistic about the future. The exact way they're gonna work this out is the way they do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U364	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U365	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I, too, will join all the other admirers and say that a very interesting and very big work has been done and a very comprehensive review of last year has been presented. I have also looked at the slides that have been tabled and my question comes about the support system for young people's activities of interest. It takes 15 million a year. There are municipalities that have used this money very wisely and very well. There are municipalities that have not used it, the money has not been used at the end of the year. Can you comment on this a little bit, even though it is not directly related to this review? At the same time, it has been highlighted in the slides and 15 million a year is a very large amount. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, there was also news that we have children moving less in the fresh air than I'm very sorry! Inmates in detention facilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U366	I am very pleased that you also paid attention to this, because it was one of my two major calls. I mean, the movement of our children and young people outside of practice, all day long. I think that one of these places, which will certainly help to significantly increase daily mobility, is precisely participation in activities of interest and in education of interest, the specific activities that are being carried out there. As I said in the report, this is not only specific to training and sports; many other recreational disciplines are equally related to movement and give children a physical burden. And it also concerns the way in and out of there, as well as the values that the guidance officer represents. Now specifically on implementation and monitoring of interest activities. The implementer of this system is the Ministry of Education and Research, more specifically the Estonian Youth Work Centre. The concept was developed primarily by the Ministry of Culture in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and many other organisations. The Ministry of Education and Research is involved in implementation and monitoring, so I have no specific data on it. As far as I am concerned, this money can also be transferred if the local government has clear reasons why it did not use it in one year and what it would like to do next year. If the local government simply extends its hands and has no plan for the money, it will most likely go back to the state budget. There is a great deal about how the local government feels about this subject. It has also occurred from time to time that the exchange of information may not have been enough. In some cases, excuses are found that are not actually adequate and that are not at all included in this regulation, which regulates all this. In other words, it is a reminder that the local government is completely competent to spend this money on everything except investment. You can't build it, but otherwise it's meant to be anything to do with giving children an interest. It must be ensured that it is guided and regular activities of interest. And the goal must be that as many children as possible, who would otherwise not reach or fall out after the first time, get there or stay there for a long time. What to do with these resources is completely placed in the hands of the local government. It is their responsibility, because they need to know what needs are on the ground and what bottlenecks are on the ground. At the same time, there are very many very positive examples across Estonia of how this money has been perfectly implemented, so more and more children have reached activities of interest. They have had the opportunity to do something they may have dreamed of, but what they could not have done before, because the local government may not have had the resources to do this specific thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U367	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U368	Thank you. Minister, I have a very specific question that comes from one of your answers and concerns rowing centres. Did I get it right that the Ministry of Culture or the state's priority in developing these centres is the Pärnu Centre, which is located on the river with its own specifics, not Aidu? As far as I know, EAS and the Estonian Olympic Committee have decided on the allocation of funds for Aidu. Are we going to do two in parallel and we're going to be able to do that? Or what about the order of priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U369	Thank you! Aide is primarily a water sports centre in the broader sense; it is not specifically aimed at rowing. A very large part of it is actually designed to develop tourism. But it is also possible to create an excellent opportunity for international competitions that want some time, money and trouble. In cooperation with the rowing federation, we made the decision that our first choice is to invest state budget money in Rääma's rowing centre through investments in the Ministry of Culture, because the most enthusiasts are in Pärnu, where there are also the longest traditions. There are plans, among other things, to build an indoor pool so that our rowers can keep their water around the year. In the Estonian climate, water sometimes goes out into the ice, and sometime in autumn, the moment will inevitably occur when rowers can no longer get on the water and must wait until the ice goes away. In order for us to have at least one place, it will actually become a unique place in the region, where vertices can hold the water feeling all year round, a Rääma rowing base will be built. This is primarily a training center. When we talk about the competition centre, both Aidu and Viljandi claim it, but there are natural issues in which either agreement is reached or no agreement can be reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U370	Thank you, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions about this report. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Jüri Jaanson Reform Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U371	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In society, we value sport primarily on the basis of the international achievements of our athletes. During the last two years, our swordsmen, as well as wrestlers and rowers, have been successful in the Olympic title competitions. From the winter Olympics Saskia brought a fourth place in the speed skating joint and we have also enjoyed the races of Oti and Martin, tennisists, triathlonists, volleyball players, etc. In rain skiing, Kelly Sildaru and the young summer Olympics gave us the first medal. It's not bad, but we didn't get any medals from the Olympic World Titles this year and almost half of last year's medals from the Non-Olympics Championships. For several years, we have been screaming near this border, and now we have fallen on the other side, despite the fact that in 2017 we received five medals from the Olympic World Series, two of them team members. It makes you think that something is missing from the picture, or even wrong. We know that the system can be strong if it is equipped with sufficient resources and if there is no weak point in the links in the chain. Otherwise, a project-based approach would probably be more appropriate. Let's think about how much or how little the impact of our sports system really is in the wonderful leaps of Kelly Sildaru, in the Saskia rapid skating Olympics, or in the youth Olympic medal, which came under training conditions from the last century's fifties, so-called rusty iron. The Reform Party recognises the work and progress made by the government in financing sport and mobility and strengthening the foundations. We acknowledge the introduction of social guarantees for athletes, the increase in coach wages, the support of sports judges, the strengthening of workers' health and other measures aimed at the development of sport and exercise. But that has not been enough. Sport begins with movement, and youth's broad-based interest in movement is the soil that feeds the vitality of our people, their health, and from which our sports peaks grow. From recent mobility studies, we know that Estonian students move in fresh air on average only four hours a week. This is much less than recommended for health enhancement and does not contribute to the growth of top athletes. Several good social organisations (e.g. the Estonian School Sports Association), sports clubs, organisers of folk sports events, movement groups and also the Estonian Olympic Committee are involved in the exercise of school pupils and young people. Nevertheless, we can see from the results of the surveys that the level of sufficient exercise of people up to 19 years of age has been maintained for many years at 45.46%, even at 35%, according to the Eurobarometer, and has fallen compared to previous years. This is a low point which has not been avoided by the implementation of the development plan for sport until 2030, despite the fact that public money has risen to more than EUR 1 million for sport over a year and the spending of local authorities on sport has increased by 6% compared to last year. The Reform Party considers that the state must clearly state the extent of its responsibility and clearly state which part of the fundamentals of sport should be borne by the State in the interests of better overall results. Youth education and recreation must be a national priority. The Reform Party considers that injecting mobility into young people and teaching mobility must be part of our education system in cooperation with the education of interest. School physical education classes must be integrated into sports training and physical education teachers must be involved as trainers in sports clubs. Young people need to find the movement interesting. The involvement of young people in the movement must become part of the synergies arising from cooperation between ministries. Schools need support and advice. You have to get every student and why not a teacher. The state must also devote attention to the organisation of the sport system for people with special needs and to their access and mobility opportunities. Parasport has become more and more professional internationally and people with disabilities must have options to contribute to excellence. The Reform Party attaches importance to the continued development of state-wide state-wide modern sports infrastructure covering Estonia as a whole, as well as regional sports facilities. The goal must be to create near-home sports opportunities. We value coaching and consider it important that every young person has access to sports medicine and the clear nature of doping and its harmfulness. We stress the importance of the government continuing to implement the 'Sport Policy Fundamentals 2030' targets at least until there is a new and better plan. The presentation of the annual report here has given us the opportunity to unravel the sport theme and take it as sticks, it is very welcome. It is important to complement the basic principles of the national financing model, including the possibilities for public undertakings to support sport activities. The aim must be to get young people moving and to have sufficient resources for excellence and excellence in performance sport. The introduction of international title and top competitions into Estonia must also be fully supported. At this point, of course, I would like to congratulate the Minister, as well as all those directly or indirectly involved in sport, who contribute to the promotion of exercise in society and also to the success of performance sport. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U372	The word has been requested by Monika Haukanõm. Dear Riigikogu, the power to negotiate has been given by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to Monika Haukanõmme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U373	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister of Culture! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna start with two little excursions in history that fit into today's day. One. Each Estonian is familiar with the name Georg Lurich, who is one of the most remarkable and strong Estonian wrestlers and who, alongside his sporting achievements, interpreted and analyzed sport more widely, even to this day. He said: "It seems to me, however, that it is the duty of every well - grown man to make sure that he does not become powerless, weak, and wantless, so that the spirit of his body is proper. [---] It is believed that if man is destined to be the crown of nature, then he has the right to live loosely. However, no one can deny that the greatest treasure on earth is health; it is such a universally understandable matter that I may not explain it more closely. " That is what Georg Lurich said in 1903 and we are trying to make sense of sport here a hundred years later. The second course takes me logically as president of the Paralympic Committee to the para-sports. Two days ago, on December 3, we celebrated the UN Day of the Disabled. Sport is becoming as normal for people with disabilities as it is for ordinary people, although they need special conditions, special sports equipment and adjustments due to their special needs. Their coaches also need expertise. While the modern Olympic Games began in Athens in 1896, the year 1948 will be considered the beginning of the Paralympic when the first war veterans games were held in England after the end of World War II. In 1960, 64 years later, the first Paralympic Games took place in Rome after the Olympic Games. Therefore, we can say that this year is a signistic and changing attitude from a parasport point of view. Parasports and Paralympics also move closer to ordinary sports along their logical path in Estonia. It's gonna be part of a single sport. Thus, sport is wonderful and suitable for everyone. Many times they ask questions about whether and why we talk so much about sport. Do you even need a sport? Of course I do. And more needs to be said about sport in general, about top sport and about exercise, because this is how we change the world. Who's the sport for? They're asking me. Is that what you need for a man, an athlete, a country? That is what we all need, and that is what the country needs. Sport provides emotion, positive feeling and well-being for both performers and viewers, creates role models and inspires with its great figures. Even if for some people sport is limited to words, we all live with the results of our peaks, even the most advanced people. When Gerd Kanter came to the Olympic medal, Ott Tänak drove for the world championship, or Kelly Sildaru did frightening tricks, we all suffered from the same madness of sports madness and pride with each body cell. But sport is not only a top sport, it is also an evening track, a skiing circle or a gym. It's something we're only doing for ourselves, not anyone else. By doing so, we set an example for our children, designing healthy lifestyles in them so that the desire to exercise and exercise does not disappear. Or we take school sports: it is from school that a child can find passion for a sport for the rest of his life. That's where our new heroes start. At the sports congress in November, President Kaljulaid really told us all that locked sports squares would not move children. If we want children to move more, so that adults do sport and older people do not sit at home on the bedline, then we need to open the doors to sports halls and squares for everyone interested. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U374	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U375	The message is clear: the doors should be open, not in fear of breaking, closed with padlocks, ski trails, sports trails and ballparks should be illuminated, not pitch-blind. It's not much to ask. Then we can talk to a slightly less concerned tone about ever-increasing clever addiction or armchair sports. But let's continue now with the so-called Sport 2030. First of all, I would like to emphasise the overall positive background, because every year there are a number of positive and sport-supporting activities. Clear mapping of the situation and setting longer orientations in sport are natural, even necessary, because the environment is changing around us. Computers are increasingly linking us to a chair and a desk, phones are nailing us to a stationary position for hours, and an ageing society presents its challenges. Not that it is all very bad, but it is necessary to be attentive and consciously guide and motivate people of all ages to move even a little. At the same time, the so-called 'Sport 2030' cannot be blamed for the lack of ambition. When talking about one of the underlying recreational activities of health, it also sets out an attempt to bring Estonia to the Nordic level. We are not satisfied with this 35% or 40% population mobility, we would like to reach 70% in the Nordic countries. Fortunately, however, the sports chick is spreading evenly among Estonians, and more people take part in sports events every year. Of course, we must also have the goal of Estonia being represented with dignity at international level. At the same sports congress, the idea was to create a team Estonia programme like the Nordic countries, including our peaks. I like it very much and, frankly, I would like it to start faster, so that we are not in a situation where we no longer have the Olympic winners. I also have one observation: hopefully, in the future, the vertices of temperate sport will be added to the Team Estonia programme. They are currently out of the picture, although they should not, because sport is a sport and our temperate athletes also compete with the world's peaks like others. Parasport is no longer a so-called secondary cornering activity, but a professional and result-oriented day-to-day systematic activity. But we'll give you time to set the tide. This will not diminish our joy at the fact that next year the parasport will be significantly more money and coordination will be transferred from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Culture. This will provide significantly better opportunities to finance top-level sport and pay attention to exercise. As I began, I would like to finish quoting our legendary wealthy hero, Lurich. He turned to the Estonians in 1910 and I think it fits perfectly into today's debate: 'Hold a Health Story! We may not have so many sick homes, poor houses, prison houses, also taverns, and similar facilities at the expense of the public. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U376	Dmitri Dmitriev on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U377	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to congratulate all those who have contributed to the field of sport. If we look at the general indicators of Estonian people's movements, the statistics of recent years show that things are improving. The number of our sports clubs and sports organisations is increasing from year to year, as is the number of people regularly engaged in exercise. New sports facilities are increasingly being built throughout Estonia and the parents are being modernised. So far, the biggest donors and supporters of sports in Estonia have been local governments, although the modernization of sports infrastructure also requires greater support from the state. I will also repeat some of the positive developments that the Minister spoke about here in his review. Last September, the state's complementary support system for youth interest education and recreational activities was implemented, which boosted young people's sports life in small places. In Lüganuse, for example, young people were able to do free mountain skiing at the Kiviõli Adventure Tourism Centre and the local football club opened a training group for children with special needs. Promoting the reimbursement of sports costs for workers will certainly contribute to sporting lifestyles. As of January this year, compensation for staff sports costs will no longer be treated as a special benefit of up to EUR 400 per employee per year. In April of this year, the Government of the Republic decided to allocate EUR 8 million for the next four years to support, prepare and participate in the title competitions for athletes and teams at the level of the team. All the changes made make it clear that the current government union cares about public health and promotes a wider range of mobility patterns. It is also a good foundation for growing sports peaks. And when you look at the list of athletes of the Estonian Year and the results of our athletes, we see that it was actually a great year. Magnus Kirt, Ott Tänak, Katrina Lehis, Gerd Kanter and everyone else offered us great emotions throughout the year. I would like to praise our athletes. Unfortunately, we have to admit that according to a recent study by health scientists at Tallinn University, the lack of mobility of children has become a serious concern in addition to the growth in the mobility habits of the general population. Data from the Institute for Health Development also point to problems related to obesity and obesity in young people. According to yesterday's news, we have prisoners in prison in the fresh air a day more than the students do. There is only one sixth of children in Estonia every day. When you go to high school, both boys and girls lose their physical activity outside of school. This is why teachers see excessive use of smart tools and screens as well as a lack of choice of sports in some places. At this point, I would also like to speak specifically about football, the chair of which I am here in the Riigikogu. I would actually like to congratulate the President of the Football Association, Aivar Pohlak, whose idealism and the perseverance of the sportsman have developed Estonian football. Now, however, we need to take the next step in cooperation. And if you put aside the same Icelandic model, which has also been mentioned by the Minister of Iceland, there are four times less people than we do, for example, as of 2016, Iceland had a total of 700 full-scale football indoor halls, one in Estonia. In addition, we had three large-scale indoor halls with dome, but everyone was in Tallinn. Iceland also had 12 smaller inner halls, only two in Estonia. When we talk about the number of football players registered in 2017, Iceland had 26500. According to the sports register, this number was 21500 in Estonia. On the basis of this, the members of the Centre Party have come up with the idea that football halls should be established across Estonia, which is easy to erect and which does not cost too much, but would develop our football infrastructure exponentially. The construction of football indoor halls in all counties would cost the Estonian state less than 20 million euros. We have repeatedly won our northern neighbours in various sports, but I would hope that by 2030 we will have reached Nordic level as a whole, just as our strategy for sport is foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U378	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. Please, the Minister will exercise his right to close.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U379	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I thank you very much for this discussion throughout these years, when I have been able to attend the Riigikogu on various sports topics, especially regularly with this report on the fundamentals of sport policy. All these moves here have actually also affected what we have done since then in the Ministry of Culture and with our cooperation partners in the Olympic Committee and in the sub-unions. I would especially like to thank Monika Haukanõmme, Jüri Jaanson and all those who have pointed out that we should treat people equally when we talk about sport and always bring in the dimension of people with special needs. I think that is one of the reasons why we can say today that the perspective of the next few years is considerably more optimistic from a parasport point of view than it may have been before. The most brilliant medals must certainly be pursued, and that is what I emphasised in my presentation, talking about Team Estonia. We want us to have Olympic winners to have Olympic medals that we have not been able to get the last few times. On the other hand, you don't have to be too pessimistic. I think that if we now bet more precisely and get a chance to make choices through Team Estonia, we can focus on it, it is not so difficult or impossible to reach it. If we generally look at the medals brought home from the title competitions, I can congratulate you all. We've broken the record again this year, even though it's not over yet. Last year was also a record year: 164 medals were brought to Estonia from international title competitions. This year they have already been brought home 178, with 39 medals from the Olympic disciplines. They are not from the Olympic Games, but they come from the Olympic disciplines, from these areas. By comparison, in the early 1990's, 10 to 20 medals came to Estonia from international title competitions. In this sense, our potential aftergrowth and base are broad and strong, but of course we need to take a qualitative step forward from here. But once again, thank you for a very constructive debate. Let us also take the time to exercise and exercise ourselves and, if possible, walk home despite today's weather!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U380	I will conclude the debate on sport. As we know, at the end of the debate, the Riigikogu will not take a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U381	Next item: First reading of the draft Act amending the Industrial Emissions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of the Environment Siim Kisler, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U382	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft law amending the Industrial Emissions Act submitted to you will definitively transpose into Estonian law the 2010 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions. The reason why we are here with this draft is that the European Commission's Pilot request received in 2016 sent 75 specified questions on the transposition of this directive, on which Estonia submitted comments, but agreed that there were shortcomings or inaccuracies in the transposition of some of the provisions of the directive, namely 19 provisions. Estonia promised to bring national legislation, or this Act, into line with that of the European Union. Amendments to the draft law can be conditionally divided into three groups: changes of a technical nature, changes to be specified and substantial changes. The need for changes of a technical nature is due to changes in other legislation, they are of a corrective nature, do not change the content of the Industrial Emissions Act or have an impact on the activities of companies and institutions. The second group is the specification of the amendments to correct the content of the concepts and requirements taken over. The potential impact of these amendments is negligible, as the respective situations have not occurred in Estonia since the entry into force of the Industrial Emissions Act in June 2013, or have already been implemented in practice, without transposing the current legislation. The third group is an important change, with a total of three. Firstly, the preparation and publication of the emergency environmental inspection report shall be subject to the same rules as those laid down by the current law on the regular environmental review report. In the future, in the event of an emergency inspection, a report must also be drawn up, which must be made public on the website of the Ministry of the Environment. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that environmental information is available to the population of a given region and to the general public. Another major change is that in the testing and use of novel techniques, the authorisation holder may grant a temporary derogation from the requirement to apply appropriate preventive measures for the prevention of contamination for a maximum period of nine months. This means that when testing a new technique, the company may not use the cleaning equipment that it would otherwise have to use if the new technique had actually been introduced. The derogation is granted in order to allow companies to test new techniques and in this way to determine which and how many pollutants are generated by the use of novel techniques, as well as which cleaning equipment must be built, and whether the technique being tested is more efficient than it is available or produces less pollutant emissions at the same production volume. From an entrepreneur's point of view, this is a mitigating change and its impact on business is positive. It is a "flexibility mechanism" provided for in the Directive, the main objective of which is to contribute to the development and deployment of innovative and environmentally sustainable technologies. The third major amendment set out in the draft is the requirement to ensure that emission monitoring results are available for the same periods (annual, monthly or daily averages) and under the same reference conditions established in the relevant BAT conclusions. This allows the results of measurements to be compared with the requirements of the BAT conclusions. This comparison is necessary to detect exceedances of the set emission limit values and some operators need to re-configure their monitoring systems to meet the requirement. To sum it up. This is a very technical draft, but the amendments do not increase the number of operators subject to a complex authorisation, which will rather remain the same, and the State will not incur any additional costs. There is a slight increase in the workload of the Environmental Board, as some complex permits need to be updated. At the same time, clearer regulation of the control system may reduce the burden if these changes are implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U383	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Minister, thank you very much. Urve Palo, member of the Committee on the Environment, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U384	Good evening, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed draft 736 at its meeting on 19 November. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, and Jelena Hannus, Head Specialist of Environmental Technology Department of the Ministry of the Environment were invited to attend. Both also attended a meeting of the Commission. The Minister explained that the draft law is essentially a correction of errors in the transposition of the European Parliament's directive on industrial emissions, which clarifies the wording of the provisions and uses a more uniform system of definitions. The amendments are of a technical nature in particular. Jelena Hanus added that the European Commission referred to inconsistencies in 2016. These are minor inaccuracies, not fundamental changes. A more important change is, for example, more flexible testing conditions for new technologies, where all preventive measures are no longer required. It also lays down requirements for the submission and publication of an emergency environmental inspection report. The third major change concerns the comparability between the requirements set out in the integrated permit and the emission levels achieved by the best available techniques in order to identify possible exceedances, i.e. breaches of the complex permit requirements. The Commission asked whether the changes had also been discussed with stakeholders and what they thought of the draft law. Ms Hannus replied that the draft law had passed two rounds of coordination and that everyone was aware of the changes to be made. The note came from the Estonian Water Association, but it was not taken into account and they agreed with the justification. The Estonian Standard Centre also added a public comment, which has been taken into account since it was a linguistic specification. The Commission decided unanimously to appoint Urve Palo as rapporteur for the draft. It was also proposed to take draft 736 to first reading today, by 5 December (also a consensual decision), to conclude the first reading (the decision was consensual) and to set the deadline for amendments to the draft at 19 December, including 4 p.m. (the decision was also consensual). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U385	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. If you want, we'll open negotiations. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline of 19 December at 16 a.m. for the submission of draft 736 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U386	First reading of Bill 760 of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Tõniste, the Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U387	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm truly honored to perform here in front of such masses. Let me first explain what a covered bond is. This has nothing to do with pawnshops or registered mail. The bond is a special and low-risk bond that can only be issued by a bank. This bond is secured primarily by claims on the recipients of the mortgage. This bond may also be secured by claims on recipients of loans secured by commercial immovable property and by claims on public or local government entities. If the bank has issued a mortgage or granted a loan to a local government, it can so-called rope these claims and convert them into a covered bond. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction Article 36 (1) (d) of CRR What makes the covered bond special is its low risk. The so-called double guarantee mechanism mainly reduces risks for investors in the covered bond. This means that under normal circumstances an investor in a covered bond has a claim against a bank, while in a bankruptcy situation, its claims are satisfied by cash flows from collateral assets. In other words, the repayment of the underlying loans will only go to the holders of the covered bond, which cannot satisfy the claims of creditors of other banks. The adoption of the Banking Act will first increase financial stability, including making Scandinavian subsidiaries operating in Estonia less dependent on their parent banks. Secondly, the draft will develop the capital market in Estonia more widely, as there will be an opportunity to invest in low-risk bonds. The pledge could be, among other things, a suitable instrument for investing in our pension funds. At the same time, foreign investors are more interested in investing in Estonian capital markets and thus more generally in Estonia. And thirdly, the draft improves the credit market in Estonia, in particular by increasing the possibility for Estonian companies to receive financing also under the conditions of the economic downturn. Practice has shown that financial crises have not significantly reduced banks' ability to raise money with covered bonds. In this way, it is also possible to ensure that loan money is available in a more difficult situation. Banks must apply to the Financial Supervision Authority for an additional licence to issue covered bonds. In addition, the new law provides for a series of investor protection rules to ensure sufficient transparency and reliability of covered bonds. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, this bill fills an important gap in the capital market in Estonia. The possibility of issuing covered bonds is guaranteed in almost every country where there is a level of banking system. Estonia is also in a situation where the law on covered bonds must be adopted for the next development jump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U388	In addition to applause, there is at least one question for you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U389	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what is the readiness of Estonian credit institutions to deal with covered bonds?
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U390	Thank you. Estonian credit institutions are prepared. We mainly have three major banks where housing loans are concentrated. If we look at the balance sheet, the total volume of housing loans in Estonia is about 7 billion euros. If we add up 5.2 billion loans to Estonian companies on commercial real estate collateral and half a billion loans to the general government, this volume could be 13 billion, but it is certainly not going to be that large in reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U391	Honourable waitress, thank you very much. Priit Sibul, Member of the Monetary Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U392	Honourable Vice President! Ministers, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 20 November. The Minister has just presented the content of the draft to us, and the Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Thomas Honourable and the Lawyer of the Department, Kaarel Eller, presented it to the Commission. We have had the same question in the Commission as my colleague, Krista Arul, that whether and to whom it is needed or whether there is an interest in issuing covered bonds. We were told that banks had an interest, especially for those with housing loans in their portfolio. It was also asked whether the interests of mortgage borrowers are protected and who are defending their interests when dealing with the draft. It is clear that there is no organisation in Estonia that represents the borrowers of housing loans, while they are protected during the proceedings by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. The loans are not sold, they remain in the bank's own portfolio, the bank's claims against borrowers are secured by covered bonds issued by the bank, and the borrower remains in contact with the bank. If the bank goes bankrupt, it doesn't matter whether the loan was covered by a covered bond or not. It was asked whether covered bonds could only be issued by credit institutions. We got the answer, yes. It then asked why the date of entry into force was set at 1 March 2019. We received the answer that the reason is that there would be fixed dates for banks to submit their application for authorisation to the Financial Supervision Authority. The Financial Supervision Authority has six months to process permits. It was asked who was buying covered bonds, and we received the answer that practice varies from country to country: for example, other banks, pension funds and insurers, but also retail investors in some countries. Then they asked whether covered bonds could be traded freely on the stock exchange. In response, we found that bonds could be traded without being listed on the stock exchange. In some countries, they are quite active in trading, credit rating agencies assess the quality of the portfolio and often the rating of covered bonds is higher than the rating of the bank being issued itself. It is a product of high reliability and low risk, but therefore interest is also lower. We have also reached decisions with our committee to bring this draft here before you today and to set the deadline for amendments at ten working days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U393	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. I'll open negotiations if I like. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 760. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 19 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U394	First reading of Bill 719 of the Act on Amendment to the Proof Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U395	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! The purpose of the draft law amending the Law of Proof initiated by the Government and the related amendment of other laws is one and clear: to enable certain proof transactions and operations to be carried out by means of a video bridge created between a notary and a client, thus proving in the presence of a notary is equivalent to proof. The planning shall be subject to the possibility of remote proof in the case of marriages and divorces, successions, applications for waivers, transfers of the share of a private limited company, pledges of obligations and disposals, and certifications and cancellations of power of attorneys. As a second amendment, this draft clarifies the validation of signatures for digital signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U396	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no questions. Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs Urve Tiidus, please! We are about to hear how the proceedings went in the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U397	Respectables! The draft law amending the Law of Proof and related amendments to other laws was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 12 November. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister himself and Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Office for Freedoms of the Ministry of Justice, participated. The draft simplification of notarial transactions and operations was presented in the Commission a little longer than today and inspired the debate. For example, it was asked to clarify the justification of the additional fee. The notary fee for remote proofing is EUR 20 higher than for a normal operation and the state fee for an operation in a foreign representation is EUR 20. The additional fee is due to the fact that the Notari Koda is a project financier and the Chamber has to bear the real costs of software, information systems management, etc. If it becomes apparent in the future that the additional fee was not justified, it can also be amended, the representative of the Ministry said. They also asked why the entry into force of the law was planned only by 1 February 2020. The reason is that we'll be ready with the IT developments. There was also the question of whether this particular draft concerns the need for translation of documents. The answer was that the draft does not concern this, but if there are specific comments or suggestions, they can be sent to the Ministry. The Minister added that notaries can decide for themselves how to translate documents. There was also the question of how the reliability of remote evidence through the video bridge is ensured. We learned that in the case of transactions in the form of long-distance proof, there is cooperation with Estonian foreign representatives, where the trading party in a foreign country must go by the time the transaction is made and where all technical solutions and conditions for a reliable notarial transaction are available. In the course of the pilot project, remote evidence is initially provided in three foreign missions of the Republic of Estonia. They are located in Helsinki, New Delhi and Stockholm and are allowed only for transactions requiring a form of notarisation. After the project has been in operation for some time, it is possible to assess whether and how it is possible to extend the service to other international offices and to more notarial activities. According to the Ministry, the success of the project could be assessed in a few years' time. Whether such a solution has been tested in other countries. Allegedly, according to the Ministry, this is a rather novel solution, but a similar solution exists in Latvia. The Commission decided unanimously to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 5 December, to propose that the first reading be closed (as well as a consensual decision), to set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 19 December (all agreed) and to appoint Külliki Kübarsepp as rapporteur, who I am replacing today. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U398	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. I will open negotiations to the political groups if that is what you want. That's not what you want. The proposal of the commission, as you have heard, is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline of 19 December at 16 a.m. for the submission of the 719 amendments to the draft text.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U399	First reading of Bill 737 of the Law on the amendment of the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (pressurisation of the debtors of the livelihood). Please, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U400	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! This bill is a logically second package of additional pressure measures to ensure that the state stands by its own strength for the interests of the weaker child, the child, so that the debtor pays a living to support the child. First, the draft provides for the right of the court to revoke the debtor's travel documents in case of non-payment of maintenance without good reason. Secondly, it is foreseen that a maintenance debtor's vehicle or other vehicle registered in the traffic register can be handed over to a bailiff by police. In addition to the above, third parties obliged to identify a person are obliged to refuse the debtor of a maintenance allowance a cash obligation of EUR 5000. These persons must verify the identity of the person by establishing from the public register whether the maintenance is a debtor and, if so, inform the bailiff who is able to seize this claim for maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U401	Thank you very much. There is, however, one question for the Minister. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U402	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, do you mind opening it up with a few words or sentences? There are a lot of debtors' documents here that can be banned. These include the sailor's service book and the maritime certificate. I can still understand the travel documents, but the sailor's service book and the maritime certificate are part of his profession or profession, which he also earns his living.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U403	Thank you. The general logic is, in fact, that. What's the point? The point is, be a man or a woman, fulfill this obligation, then you can get the documents and get on with your life, travel around the world, or stay in other countries and carry out these tasks. So the point is, in reality, that it is extremely difficult for the fillers to act. We imagine those people who are stationed all over the world, whether they are sailors, Estonian citizens travelling, or people who have gone to live temporarily or permanently in Australia, Latin America, wherever they are. It is difficult for Estonian fulfillers to enforce this obligation. I believe that if a person demonstrates his/her readiness to comply, for example, with his/her obligations under driving licences, at least in part, if he/she shows good will, he/she will also state his/her reasons: objective reasons why he/she seeks to reduce his/her livelihood, or reasons why he/she has not fulfilled his/her obligation. If he works as a sailor, then he will receive a salary and at least partially be able to fulfill that obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U404	Thank you very much to the Minister. Urve Tiidus speaks of the procedure in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U405	Respectables! The draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and related amendments to other laws was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 12 November. Mr Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, Mr Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law, and Mr Olm, adviser, explained the draft. The debate became quite long and it was pointed out that there are over 9,000 survivors in Estonia. The members of the Commission had a number of additional questions. The question was whether and how the income of a maintenance debtor could be assessed. According to the Minister, it was initially intended to give the bailiff the right to assess the debtor's income if there is any doubt that his actual remuneration is higher than the official income. However, in the round of co-ordination of the draft proposal, this idea received extensive criticism and was therefore excluded from the draft. Indrek Niklus added that it is certainly impossible to find out how many people would be financially able to pay for a living. On the basis of indirect examples, it can be estimated that one third of maintenance creditors are those who do not pay a living in principle. At the request of the chairman of the committee, a summary of the comments made during the round of coordination of the draft was taken. I'll bring out one of them. A wide range of persons took part in the coordination process and more serious negotiations took place with the Banking Association, with which it was agreed that a maintenance debtor could be denied a cash commitment of more than EUR 5 000. For the time being, the Ministry wanted this threshold to be lower. The Bank Association's assessment was that a measure with a lower threshold is impractical and disproportionate as it requires further development from them. There were also negotiations on the same subject with gambling operators, who also claimed that this was a disproportionately costly measure. However, the Ministry stressed that the child's interests were more important, and EUR 5 000 remained. The Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court considered that the bailiff should not have the right to assess the actual remuneration of the debtor of the maintenance. They consider that this obligation must remain with the tax administration. It was explained to the Commission that bailiffs are already notifying the tax administration if it is evident that the person's actual income does not correspond to official income. Members of the Commission raised questions about the date of entry into force of the Act, 1 January 2021. The representative of the Ministry explained that such a long period of entry into force was necessary for the development of information systems. For example, the aim is to bring the police data exchange system to a level that allows electronic data exchange between a police officer and a bailiff when the vehicle is stored. To the same end, a traffic register needs to be developed. There was also a question of whether measures would be envisaged to ensure that the money received from the debtor of the maintenance would certainly be used in the interests of the child. The answer was that the law in force allows you to go to court if the allowance is not used properly and the court can also issue an injunction. It was a question of whether the Ministry had analysed the draft's compatibility with the Constitution. The Commission received assurances from the Ministry that constitutionality has been analysed and international practice, the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, has also been examined. The European Court of Human Rights has concluded that constitutionality is guaranteed when the proportionality of the measure is considered when the document is repealed. In Estonia, for example, one measure of the right to drive, the final decision to suspend the right to drive is always made by the court and the court can also consider whether the person needs travel documents to carry out his or her duties, for example. There is a case-law which excluded the suspension of the right to drive, as it was considered not to be a proportionate measure. The evaluation by the bailiff of the debtor's actual income rose to the agenda once more during the debate. As we have heard before, the Ministry has wished to give the bailiff the right to assess the actual amount of the debtor's remuneration. The reason was that a similar measure existed in Finland. But on the basis of the argument of constitutionality and the immunity of the employment relationship, the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Social Affairs demanded that this provision be deleted from the draft. Member of the Commission Raivo Aeg considered that cooperation with the tax administration was not effective enough in such a situation, as the Agency only monitors tax receipts. According to Indrek Niklus, the tax authority can conclude on hidden income on the basis of the tax procedure. He added that the law in force allowed the debtor to demand a statement of the debtor's bank account prior to the commencement of the enforcement procedure. On this basis, it is also possible to estimate income receipts and the associated significant changes. However, the executor has no right to decide whether the person's actual income is higher than the official income. He also has no right to seize anything on this basis. Councillor Andra Olm explained that bailiffs and tax authorities are cooperating and that if the trustee has reason to believe that the debtor receives hidden income, the tax authority would be given a signal to that effect. It was pointed out that this is a draft which amends the law that was made only two years ago, although the Minister himself deplores the excessive amendment of the law. So it was a question of not having to change that law again in a few years. The Minister said that this cannot be ruled out because, in the meantime, completely new services may enter the market, which cannot now be predicted. In the Commission's debate, there was also the opinion that perhaps a more vigorous approach should be taken to this group of debtors who do not, in principle, want to pay a living, not to those who actually live on the poverty line. The Minister acknowledged that there are people who have or do not have a minimum income, and in this case the court can consider the possibility of changing the size of the livelihood. If a person considers that he or she is unable to make a living, the bailiff will still make the first assessment. The examiner shall decide whether to refer the matter to the court, which in turn shall consider the size of the maintenance. The Minister said that the amendment could also be linked in the near future to the fact that the number of persons not complying with the obligation is, unfortunately, in a growing trend. International statistics also came up for discussion. It turned out that Estonia lacked comparable statistics on maintenance debtors in European countries, but if we are compared to the Nordic countries, we have more maintenance debtors. Other countries also have a somewhat different system. For example, in Finland, the state first pays out the grant and only then starts to demand it from the debtors. Consensual decisions were also taken: the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 5 December, the proposal to close the first reading, the deadline for the amendments to be set at 19 December and the appointment of Urve Tiidus as rapporteur. Thank you for listening and having a nice evening.
ParlaMint-EE_2018-12-05_U406	Thank you very much for the waitress. Indeed, there are no questions. There is still time for the political groups to negotiate. That's not what you want either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline of 19 December at 16 a.m. for the submission of draft 737 amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this working day. We'll pick it up tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 21.36 p.m.
